i think, mr president, that it is biased the way in which you choose the speakers in a fixed procedure which is provided for by the functioning of the european parliament. you have argued that the selection is made in order and on the basis of the following criterion: whether or not the speakers had spoken at the last sitting of the european parliament on the same subject with the same procedure. if you check your cards and cross them, you will find that, firstly, you have spoken today out of order and, secondly, you have given the floor to persons who had spoken at the previous plenary session of the european parliament; therefore, your arguments are not valid. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. we are not going to accept that under any circumstances.
high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy/vice-president of the commission. − mr president, as i began i wanted to come to this house to hear the views. i take on board and understand the frustration that honourable members feel, that there are issues which could be handled better. members asked questions about visibility and coordination. there is no question that, because america is closer, because it has the capacity to mobilise as quickly as it did, then the pictures you will see on your television screens will be of them. the fact that we worked so closely and collaboratively with the united states is also an important part of what we do now and in the future. and there is also no question that, as i was woken in the night to be told of the earthquake, we mobilised our people as quickly as we possibly could. twenty-one member states were mobilised to respond. we had work done, with the council and commission side coming together for the very first time, and may i just say, it is only eight days since i was before you in my hearing here. twenty-one member states with 11 search-and-rescue teams, five field hospitals, six advance medical posts, 40 medical teams, six water-purification units; we despatched these as quickly as we could and i pay tribute to the member states for the work they do. i also pay tribute to the officials who worked and have continued to work day and night to pull this effort together. i put the question very early to the united nations on the ground, and to secretary-general ban ki-moon, where best my efforts could be. there was no doubt that i had nothing to contribute on the ground other than to take up valuable space when planes were circling the airfield unable to land because of the state of the airfield at the present time. i am not a doctor. i am not a fire-fighter. my place was to bring together the coordination, to be talking to the friends of haiti group, to be coordinating with the united states to make sure that we put in the maximum effort on the ground. i also pay tribute, as honourable members have done, to the ngos and to the people on the ground. the devastation that happened on the ground had enormous impact on the united nations, which has lost many members of their senior staff, and on ngos, which have been unable to respond as quickly as they would simply because people of theirs have died. that has made it very difficult, as you have watched and we have watched people desperate for help, wondering where the help is. getting the help out in these circumstances has been incredibly difficult, and again people have worked tirelessly to provide it. now things are getting easier, the help is getting out, but do not underestimate for one moment how difficult the circumstances have been on the ground. did it work well? yes. am i satisfied? no. as i start my first weeks in this job, i say to you very clearly: i hear what you say. i hear the frustration. i understand it. and you are right to criticise me that it is not as good as it can be in the future. you are right. it should, and must, get better and better. what i have to do is take what happened and learn the lessons of it now in order to make sure that we do more in the future to pull together, but i take nothing away from the tremendous work that was done and is being done hour by hour and day by day. for the long term, honourable members are absolutely right. when the cameras have gone, we need to be there. we need to be there physically, we need to be there in terms of the support we can give. i agree that debt issues need to be a part of the discussions that take place. i agree that what is done must be done in partnership with the haitian people with due respect for them. i agree on the importance of rebuilding the infrastructure, and i agree that we have to ensure that the role of the united nations is recognised and make sure that they are able to fulfil it well. that is why i am going not only to the united states to see secretary of state clinton but also to the united nations to talk with the secretary-general and the key people about what we can now do to pull together for the future because that, as you say, will be of enormous importance. let me finish on the reality of the situation. as honourable members have said, this is a country where over 70% of people were already living below the poverty line. it is very important, as honourable members have said, that the children, the orphan children especially, are cared for properly, and the devastation will require support in the years ahead. let me just tell you a little bit about the infrastructure at the moment. hospitals, electricity, communications, water supply, seaports and airports have been badly damaged. the main official buildings, the presidential palace, the parliament, ministries of treasury, justice, planning, health and interior are completely destroyed. many of the high government officials are missing. the capacities of the haitian government are not functioning. it is, as you said, already one of the poorest countries in the world, and because we need to rebuild that infrastructure, i share your commitment to make sure that we do. (applause)
member of the commission. madam president, first of all i would like to say to mr le hyaric, who is asking for surplus food to be sent to haiti, that this is not the approach of the european union, for the simple reason that the commission prefers to buy these products in the region. we'll see if we can get them locally first instead of having to ship our surplus to haiti. secondly, regarding the whole matter of coordination and civil protection and so on, let me just say three things. firstly, civil protection is a competence of the member states, and all coordination initiatives must be built on this basis. this was also proposed by the barnier report but up to now we have not reached a conclusion. it is a matter for the member states and not for the commission as such. secondly, as far as civil protection and its coordination is concerned, since the 2004 tsunami eu civil protection coordination has grown stronger and much more efficient. virtual exercises can of course never test enough the effectiveness of our cooperation as much as natural disasters do, sadly enough. in this crisis non-eu member states are calling the mic to see how they can contribute to the relief effort with eu facilities. thirdly, let us not forget that in the second barroso commission humanitarian aid and civil protection have been combined under one commissioner, which i think is a very valuable effort. in addition we also now have a high representative, who will have a double hat. what we have seen in the past about coordination is that it is not lacking within the commission for example - i will come back to that in a minute - but it is sometimes between the european institutions and the member states and between the european commission and council. the whole idea behind this double-hatting was precisely that the council and commission could work better together, and i think it has been demonstrated in this crisis that this has, in fact, been quite an advance. lastly, i would also like to say that i am a little bit sad about what some speakers have said. of course as a commissioner i cannot be sad, i just have to take notice of it, but it does not pay enough tribute to all our people who have been working, on the spot and in brussels, from hour one, day and night, during the weekend, without any complaint, without asking for any compensation. they have been working very hard and within hours they were also active on the spot, although their facilities were also hit hard. so please consider that this is the kind of massive disaster that is not predictable, that you can only respond to when it happens, and for which you have to demonstrate that you can organize a response in a very short period of time. i think the commission has been demonstrating this. i think that the member states immediately and massively supported our action and i think we should also be a little bit less critical about those services.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the february part-session. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the statement by the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy and vice-president of the commission on the situation in iran.
baroness ashton, i have been pleased to observe your sober attitude characterized by respect for a country with the history and pride of iran. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. i would urge, baroness, that you continue the dialogue. usually, countries that condemn such countries are very far from the culture and mindset of the countries of iran, iraq and afghanistan. i would say to the group you have to continue the open dialogue with iran, add countries which have traditionally had good relations with iran, such as my country, greece, and especially now with its current government, the socialist one. the region will not withstand a new war. i am conveying here the anxiety, not only of israel but also of the emirates, about iran's nuclear programme. keep this conversation going, and i think we'll get somewhere.
high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy/vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i think this has been an extremely important and timely debate, first of all because we have reiterated the commitment that we have in the european union to the importance of the values of human rights. and indeed, in our dialogue with iran, we ask nothing more than that they live up to the international agreements which they have willingly and voluntarily signed, and that is a fundamental part of the way in which we have to approach these questions, and members have, both by naming individuals and by describing events in iran, highlighted the issues which are of the greatest concern to us. members, too, have made the point that in the end, as you said, mr gualtieri, the dialogue must be inevitable. it is very important that we continue to offer the approach that says ‘meaningful dialogue’. but i do so recognising that my predecessor javier solana spent six years in dialogue, six years offering to continue that debate; so, dialogue, but not as an excuse for inaction on behalf of iran, but rather as a means of making sure that we develop the strength of that relationship and that we achieve what we believe to be important. and as part of that, the talks on world trade organisation membership which have been going nowhere for a long time, could be a way in which we could find the kind of debate and discussion and support to enable the regime to move forward. many members have talked about the importance of sanctions, but i think particularly – intelligent, smart sanctions: the critical importance to all of us of ensuring, as we begin to think about what next, and, if we do, and as we do, consider the possibility of sanctions, that we do so recognising that they must be aimed and targeted specifically to achieve what we wish and that no one in this house wishes to see ordinary people in iran suffer as a consequence of that. that makes that debate very important, but also requires us to invest energy and time within it. the e3+3 senior officials met in new york on saturday and we were able to have the dialogue, including of course with russia, on that issue. there is no doubt, as i have said, that, though we wish to take forward the meaningful relationship with iran through dialogue, ultimately, if iran rejects this, then, under the dual-track policy that we have, the question of sanctions arises and, indeed, as a consequence of that meeting, consideration of the appropriate further measures has already begun. this, too, will be an item for discussion at the foreign affairs council on monday, and that is partly why i was so keen to hear honourable members’ views as i prepare for those discussions too. in terms of the delegation going to the country, mrs lochbihler, you are indeed the chair of the delegation. it is very important that it has not yet officially been cancelled. i think it would be important to consider whether we should pursue that. i hope that meeting can take place soon, again in the spirit of trying to keep the dialogue open. we do, as a result specifically of the action of this parliament, have euronews beginning its broadcasts in farsi in the middle of 2010. that is important too in terms of communication and looking at how we use communication and technology effectively. it is difficult to think about blocking access if at the same time we block the access to the information that people wish to get, and that, i think, is something we have to be mindful of. and in terms of looking at what we do for the future, honourable members have made it clear what they wish us to consider. as i have said, the e3+3 is already considering these options. we have the foreign affairs council. i have indicated we want to look at smart, intelligent sanctions as we consider this dual track. i have made it clear and i continue to make it clear that i am open and ready to have the dialogue – and i described in my opening remarks the potential of this great country – but we do so in the certain knowledge that we cannot continue to use dialogue as a way of preventing action. i have to end by saying i was very struck by the phrase that president obama used in his nobel prize reception speech when he said that, when we look at the value of continuing with engagement, ‘engagement with repressive regimes lacks the satisfying purity of indignation. but [...] no repressive regime can move down a new path unless it has the choice of an open door’. the door is open for that meaningful dialogue in order to move forward but, in saying that, i am absolutely committed to recognising the twin track that my predecessors laid out and to pursuing that as necessary.
dear colleagues, these discussions last from 15.00 to 20.00, which is five hours. i suggest that we take a five-minute break in order for the high representative and everybody else who has been in the chamber, and will continue in the chamber, to catch their breath, and that we resume at 17.35: five minutes from now.
i was unaware that there was a ‘point of information’ procedure. mr van orden, i allowed you to go on, but in all fairness to everyone else this was not a point of order. the debate is closed. the vote will take place during the february i part-session in strasbourg. (the sitting was suspended at 17.30 and resumed at 17.35.)
madam president, the people of yemen are victims of imperialist contradictions and interventions. the imperialist powers, i believe, are fomenting ethnic, racial and religious strife in this country. for years, they have often resorted to military force. they are undermining the peaceful settlement of disputes in order to control energy reserves and energy transmission channels in the region. the developments in that country have always been the result of imperialist choices of nato policy and the support of the deeply reactionary and anti-people regime in that country. the large increase in financial and military aid from the united states under the pretext of fighting al qaeda, along with the designation of yemen as a state sponsor of terrorism, the bombing of parts of the country by saudi forces with the assistance of the us, and the presence of foreign troops make possible the escalation of open military imperialist intervention. this is what the new surge in terror hysteria after the delta plane bombing shows. i believe that the peoples will respond by strengthening the struggle against repressive measures and against imperialist interventions.
madam president, as has already been said and as we all know, the situation in yemen is dramatic from the social and economic point of view and from the point of view of social cohesion. the country has no water, its oil reserves are running low, and its people are growing drugs. it is exactly what afghanistan was 26 years ago when, in this chamber - i mean in the old chamber of the european parliament - we predicted, when we were discussing the drugs report, what the future of afghanistan would be. if there is no development intervention now and if the united nations is not allowed to have a permanent presence at all levels, yemen will surely find itself in the same position as afghanistan today with its problems unsolved. there are not many ways to deal with terrorism, but it certainly is not dealt with in the way the west operates either. the only way to help this country not to become a hotbed of al qaeda is to consult with all the arab countries, not just saudi arabia. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, this afternoon we discussed the enormous and unimaginable disaster in haiti and how europe can help to provide relief for those affected. this debate should remind us - and that is why i am speaking now in this sitting - that agreements with countries which are facing serious economic problems and which are particularly vulnerable to natural disasters, as the tragedy in haiti has shown, must be treated by us in a very different spirit from the other economic agreements concluded by the european union. we are talking about countries plagued by poverty, want and disease. we're talking about countries where the term humanitarian crisis tends to become the norm. it is therefore our responsibility, our duty, our conviction, and the foundation stone of the european union to put human life above all else, and then any technical and economic dimensions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, it is crucial to promote as far as possible the creation of a common european framework of reference for rights in criminal proceedings. the key concept is the concept of trust. we want the confidence of the european citizen who has recourse to justice for the protection of his fundamental rights. we also want confidence between the member states in their cooperation and in the ultimate delivery of justice to everyone who is called to account. and finally, we need confidence from all of us in the administration of justice. and until we promote these common frameworks at european level, for better or for worse there will sometimes be criminals who will exploit the gaps that exist and we will not have the justice we seek precisely because there will be no common frameworks.
mr president, i too would like to congratulate the authors of this very important question. we live in a modern world where you would expect that the phenomena of human trafficking would have disappeared from our society. but unfortunately the numbers are contradicting us, and let me quote a few: more than 1,800,000 children and young people are estimated to be victims of trafficking worldwide each year; the european union has 270,000 victims according to the united nations. in greece alone, estimates put the number of victims trafficked for the purpose of prostitution at 40,000 per year, including women and children, but excluding other forms of trafficking. the two most basic weaknesses i would like to point out, without underestimating the other parameters, are the following: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a good one. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. secondly, there is a particular gap in the protection of victims, particularly in the area of support structures. it is therefore necessary - and i am very glad to hear this from the spanish presidency - to allocate resources and infrastructure to improve existing infrastructure and to create new ones and, of course, to properly train the staff who can provide such support. this modern form of slavery must not and cannot have any place in a european union whose fundamental element is respect for human rights and human dignity.
mr president, mr prime minister, the fact that spain is taking over the presidency of the european union at this difficult juncture is a great challenge and a great opportunity for us who maintain that the european recipe for dealing with the crisis has been unilateral up to now and has not given the importance it should have to limiting the impact on the real economy and on employment; the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial contribution to the european union's budget for the financial year 2000 is a welcome step forward in the development of the european union's financial instruments. the spanish presidency is a great challenge for those of us who believe in the need for european economic governance and the democratisation of economic policy mechanisms to ensure fiscal discipline and the necessary solidarity, where necessary, to protect the interests of european citizens.
in writing. the priorities of the spanish presidency for the effective implementation of the reactionary 'lisbon treaty', the promotion of the continuation of the anti-people lisbon strategy, with the 'eu 2020 strategy', the strengthening of the cfsp and the esdp and the attack on democratic rights and freedoms with the 'stockholm programme' are priorities of plutocracy. the spanish presidency's programme reflects the haste of european union capital to promote capitalist restructuring, the continuation with undiminished intensity of its attack on the rights and living standards of the working class and the popular strata. the focus of this attack is on the reduction of wages and pensions, the complete abolition of employment relationships, the generalization of flexible and temporary forms of employment, the demolition of public insurance systems, the income of farmers by drastically reducing the community budget allocations for agriculture and livestock, the cutting of social benefits and the commodification of health, welfare and education, by recruiting the terror of 'fiscal deficits' and the implementation of the stability pact. the choice of the eu's monopoly capital is to strengthen the eu's imperialist policy with new political-military intervention mechanisms, such as the european external action service, the strengthening of its militarization with the "combat groups", their greater connection with nato.
the next item is voting. (for the results and other information on the vote, see minutes)
mr president, madam minister, we would certainly prefer today's debate to take place in a different context where we are called upon to evaluate a global, legally binding agreement and decide as the european union on the next steps. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and that is the first major reason why we express our disappointment. the second reason for our disappointment, which is particularly concerning to us as a european parliament, is the poor image of the european union at the copenhagen conference. while one would expect the european union, at the first world conference it attended after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, to actually lead an effort towards a new ambitious, comprehensive, global agreement to combat climate change, we witnessed, along with the european citizens, an image of fragmentation with some european leaders playing their own game and the european union as a bystander or spectator. it's not the role we want and it's not the role we're meant to play. so what should be done? we call on the european commission and the council to rise to the occasion and ensure a leading role for europe in this new endeavour. and i want to remind you that this is not just about limiting the effects of climate change. it is a much broader commitment, the commitment to a new model of growth, the green growth model, which will be the european response to the need to create new jobs, to strengthen the competitiveness of the european economy and to consolidate the european union's leadership in the new order of things that is emerging.
acting president of the council. - i have mentioned the visa regime earlier. the council has always expressed its wish that kosovo should also benefit from the visa regime, from a possible visa liberalisation in the region as a whole. as you know, the commission is working on these details. first, on visa facilitation and then even on liberalisation, to make a proposal to the council. certain requirements must of course be met in this respect and the commission is working with the countries concerned in this respect, in this case in relation to kosovo, and it is regularly reporting to the council. the idea of visa liberalisation being extended to the neighbouring areas of the european union is certainly one which the council shares, the spanish presidency shares and i believe that it is one of the political lines which we clearly have to promote in the coming months in europe, in the sense of mobility, of a capacity for communication, of movement not only in the european union but throughout the neighbourhood of the european union. i think that this is a line which clearly benefits both parties, the european union, which grants these visas, and these countries, which naturally have to do so, where appropriate, always on a reciprocal basis.
madam president, mr minister, i appreciate the attitude of your country, spain, which has not recognized kosovo's independence, and your recent decision to withdraw the spanish troops which have been stationed in kosovo. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union has a duty to help the people of kosovo, and i am sure that the european union will do so. is it right for the troops to remain there in kosovo?
acting president of the council. - i think there is a proposal that has been made by the commission. there has been an agreement, an agreement was finally reached, a consensus within the council, not easy, the swedish presidency and the commission had to work hard to get that agreement within ecofin and there it is. it is now up to the european parliament to make such proposals, such as those you have mentioned, or others. this is the place to get that agreement between the two domains. there is a consensus at council level and we shall see how we get consensus with the european parliament. these issues that you raise are, i think, like others, perfectly debatable and open to debate, and i am sure that we will find an agreement, because it is absolutely necessary, between these two legislative bodies of the union: the council and the european parliament.
madam president, mr minister, i would like to link the issue of financial supervision in the european union to the speculative activity of mutual fund management companies, which are based in the european union, in the city of london. news reports say that managers of such companies are betting low on the euro, on greece's government bonds, and on debt and deficit, worsening borrowing. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has already taken a number of measures to protect the economies of the member states from the speculative attacks of the european union-based venture capital firms.
acting president of the council. - i think it is, that it is perfectly possible to discuss good practice in relation to financial institutions. we are opening a debate which is oriented around these financial supervision systems and i think it is an opportune place to be able to work along those lines and to be able to bring, even to those directives, some of those elements to which you have referred, mr kelly. i also believe that the proposal put forward by the second speaker is welcome within these directives which you will be able to discuss in this house, for example, in relation to the regulation of hedge funds, which is within the supervisory needs that have been raised, or something that the current president of the council of the union was quoting this morning in this chamber, the eradication of tax havens. all of this, all of these ideas that have been put forward, all of this has a place, can have a perfect place in the debate that will take place in this house in the coming months on a reform, as the european council called it at the time, a complete and real reform of the supervision of the financial system. a reform, therefore, in depth, important, which fits all the approaches and all the debates you have pointed out.
acting president of the council. - the treaties of the european union provide for a clear division of powers. the economic policies of the member states are of common interest to the union, but at the same time national budgets are the responsibility of the member states. since there is a single currency in 16 countries of the union and at the same time a plan to extend it, since the idea of monetary union is something that appears in the maastricht treaty as an objective as all-encompassing as possible, there is naturally a respect for the rules of the states in relation to their budgets, because that affects the whole of the european economy and monetary system. excessive government deficits must therefore be avoided, which is essential for the functioning of economic and monetary union, in which monetary union has developed - and this must be acknowledged - above all, not economic union. the stability pact is the reason why, in maastricht at the time, now in the treaty on the functioning of the european union, article 123 prohibits overdrafts or the granting of credit for such overdrafts by the european central bank and the central banks of the member states whose currency is the euro. the treaty also states that neither the union nor the member states shall assume or be liable for the commitments of central governments or other public authorities of another member state. so each member state has to guarantee its debt obligations and the council has said that all member states must do so and the council continues to trust that greece and the other member states will take the appropriate decisions to correct the economic imbalances, to preserve the soundness of the national economic and financial environment. it should be recalled that the excessive deficit procedure provides for economic policy monitoring in justified cases. the council will discuss the greek case 'hopefully' in february. it is likely that at that time, pending the commission's right of initiative, recommendations will be adopted and strategies will therefore be devised, a way in which the european union can express its interest, its involvement in the difficult situations or circumstances that some of its member states may be experiencing.
madam president, mr president-in-office, you have reminded us of the articles of the treaty which correspond to the excessive deficit procedure. parliament is aware of these articles. but i have the feeling that you could give me more information on what mr zapatero means when he talks about solidarity in the euro area, about solidarity in countries with particular budgetary problems. is there any possibility of discussing better budgetary coordination between the centre and the region in terms of performance? the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a step in the right direction. can you tell me more than you have said about what mr zapatero means by solidarity?
acting president of the council. - i think each body has its own area of work. this is one of the most important features of the structure of european economic and monetary union, and it is also what gives it credibility. it is true that the council will deal with the case of greece, logically because it is one of the member states of the union, and obviously we are all concerned about what happens in another european country. we are concerned about what happens in countries outside europe, let alone in a place where there is a single market and where there is a single currency for 16 countries. it is logical that there should be a debate, within the limits set by the treaty, and that there should also be a discussion on the budgetary and economic strategy which is considered appropriate in the present circumstances and which is recommended in this case to greece, from which greece can certainly benefit. the european central bank has its own tasks in the treaty, in relation to financial stability and price stability, from a position of independence. the independence of the european central bank is an essential principle of the european union which gives our economic and financial system and our common currency, the euro, a high degree of credibility. and that criterion of independence must be respected, because it is a fundamental element in the construction of the economic and monetary union system that we approved some years ago in the european union.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on democratization in turkey.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, i am pleased with the restrained and - i might say - wise analyses of both minister garrido and commissioner olli rehn, whom i congratulate and wish success in his new duties. it is undeniable that turkey is a large muslim country of great strategic importance. i would not like to repeat the views of other colleagues with whom i agree. but from the analysis of the information on this country, it seems to me that there are many power centers that cannot act together. they act in contradiction. so while the erdogan government is trying to present itself as conciliatory, the country's armed forces are showing themselves aggressive towards greece by continuing to violate greek airspace and by continuing to harass frontex. at the same time, it was recently pointed out that the judiciary of this country has clearly shown repeated tendencies to abolish the government in the pattern of events that occurred two, three years ago with erbakan. finally, the turkish government is at present unable to guarantee the popular sovereignty which is an element of democracy in the country, while it is planning a new type of ottoman commonwealth, as was shown by the views expressed by mr davutoglu, which were repeated by mr erdogan on his recent visit to lebanon. i also find it strange that the turkish government's moves to open up to iran and its nuclear programme are at odds with the views of the international community, particularly the european union and the united states. moreover, in violation of the ankara road map and international agreements, turkey allows and perhaps encourages the movement of illegal migrants through its territory to european union countries, while not complying with its obligations to grant the right to dock and land cypriot ships and aircraft. at the same time the head of the orthodox church, patriarch bartholomew, the undisputed spiritual leader of hundreds of millions of orthodox, gave his staff a frank and clear account of the situation in the patriarchate with its complaints about violations of religious freedoms and minority rights. i therefore believe that turkey has a long way to go before it joins the european union.
we have supported turkey's accession perspective, madam president, in the expectation that it would contribute primarily to its profound democratic transformation. the balance sheet several years later is unfortunately very poor. the reforms have been frozen and those that have been carried out are essentially left blank. even progress on the kurdish question, which had given rise to much hope, seems to have stalled. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union, and it is also a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union. the european parliament has welcomed the democratic opening announced by the turkish government. however, the suppression of freedom of expression and the arrests of thousands of citizens and dozens of political representatives are unacceptable and make any statement about the continuation of reforms unreliable. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the acquis. it is not possible for the army in a candidate country, even after all these years, not to be subject to full political control. the european union is not a political union, but a political union, and it is not a political union, but a political union.
madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, from your statements today i have the impression that you have easily overlooked the fact that the latest decision of the turkish constitutional court to outlaw the pro-kurdish party was taken a few hours before the decisions of the general affairs council and the decision of the summit council, which basically gives the green light to turkey's unhindered accession process, at a time when it is a country that violates human and democratic rights, does not respect international law, does not recognise the republic of cyprus. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a fact that the turkish constitution creates political instability, does not guarantee religious and political freedoms and is an alibi for deep state interventions. the question is therefore: what measures will you take to protect the rights of kurdish citizens? and the most important question: will we finally ask for a substantial constitutional reform for an institutional framework that guarantees these freedoms and makes the turkish state respect all these rights that are the criteria for a country to proceed with the accession process?
madam president, the dispute between the supporters of turkey's accession or special relationship with the european union highlights the inter-imperialist contradictions within the european union and the competition with the united states and the other great powers. the progress reports of turkey to the european parliament are the result of the balances between these forces. they have nothing to do with the savage exploitation, oppression and persecution experienced by the worker in turkey. trade unionists are persecuted and convicted in mock trials. political killings and violence by the prosecuting authorities continue. political parties are being dissolved simply because they represent the kurdish population. elected representatives are being persecuted and imprisoned en masse. turkey continues to deny basic rights to kurds and other minorities. it illegally occupies 40% of the republic of cyprus, torpedoes every solution to the problem. he threatens greece with a casus belli, he makes territorial claims. the european union welcomes the fact that the european union is continuing to support the efforts of the turkish government to achieve a peaceful settlement of the conflict in the region.
acting president of the council. - the council will act, in relation to the dossier which we will call the eu-turkey relationship, with a view to the accession process, as follows: firstly, we believe that the european perspective for turkey must be maintained. we understand that if turkey were to join the european union one day, it would make the european union stronger, not weaker. it is therefore in the interest of both parties that this process be pursued. secondly, as mr obiols said, negotiation is an undeniable asset for making progress in this process and for making progress in the internal reforms in turkey. that has been proven conclusively. that negotiation is a strategic element and the maintenance of it, as defined by commissioner olli rehn in his speech. and thirdly, a very clear message to turkey. we have to be very clear with turkey. this is what mrs oomen-ruijten - the author of this motion for a resolution, which i think is a very comprehensive, very detailed and very detailed proposal, and i think it is an excellent basis for work - has said, and so have many of the speakers here tonight: mrs corazza, mrs ludford, mr keller, mr zahradil, and many others who have advocated a clear message to turkey. turkey is a country which, if it meets the copenhagen criteria, can and should join the european union. but turkey is not bringing them together at the moment, and in this respect there are two essential factors, democracy and human rights, which are central to the analysis of turkey's possible future membership of the european union. in relation to human rights, some, certain aspects of human rights, are fundamental to the definition of a democracy which meets the requirements, the so-called copenhagen criteria. in the field of justice, in the field of equality between men and women, in the field of torture and ill-treatment, in the field of freedom of expression, respect for minorities and pluralism, all these are elements that must be taken into account. in all of them, as has been shown here, we see undoubted progress and in all of them we also see shortcomings or even setbacks. that's the definition of the situation. depends on how you look at it. in all of them there is always the bottle half full or half empty. i believe that these are therefore the key elements for the european union's approach to relations with turkey. i believe that this process of progress in the rapprochement of turkey and the european union is possible, it is a possible process. that is why this process is open and why turkey has the status of a candidate country. it is a necessary process, which must of course be as rapid as possible. and in that process the role of the european parliament is absolutely essential. the european parliament has an essential role to play in developing, analysing, evaluating and deepening this process, which we all want to see moving as quickly as possible.
member of the commission. − madam president, i am glad to say my last word on turkey. i want to thank you for a very substantive and responsible debate this evening. actually, i said my farewell concerning turkey to you already in december or november. i will not repeat it now. i hope that i do not have to say any further farewells as regards turkey in this chamber and that we can move on and start tackling the major economic and other challenges of the european union. i also want to use this opportunity to thank the spanish presidency and spanish prime minister zapatero for launching the alliance of civilisations, which is a very important initiative, and i can say that i am a volunteer to join that alliance. it is very important also for the eu-turkey relations. today’s debate has focused largely on the party closure and rightly so. it is very important that turkey reform its legislation and the whole constitutional legal framework of political parties in line with the recommendations of the venice commission. mr van baalen and mr schmidt raised the issue of the court of auditors’ recent report on turkey. i can say that our conclusion in the commission, in dg enlargement, concurs with the report and its conclusions concerning how to make our financial assistance more strategic, multiannual and more clearly linked to the needs stemming from the political reform agenda in our countries, in this case in turkey. work is now under way to this end, including a completely new orientation for preparing our planning documents on a multiannual basis and moving from project- to sector-based programming. this new approach also comprises a stronger emphasis on sectoral strategies being developed by the beneficiary countries themselves, which ultimately should ease joint identification of policy priorities between the commission and the turkish authorities. i will be glad to provide you with a longer and deeper written response on this matter if you send me a letter shortly so that i can still do it during the term of the present commission. i think it is important, apart from party closures, to discuss the democratic transformation more broadly. that is what you have done this evening and i just want to make three points briefly, which, in my view, are the most important next steps. we have seen tremendous democratic transformation in turkey in the past five years. it is a very different country today compared to what it was, say, five years ago. but of course the glass is not yet full, and there are many important reforms that still need to be implemented in turkey. the first and foremost of them concerns citizens’ rights and fundamental freedoms. turkey’s record on freedom of expression is not in line with eu standards. many authors and journalists are still facing prosecution and conviction for their work. it is now high time for turkey to adopt the necessary legal reforms so that this problem will belong to turkey’s past and not to its future. that is fundamental for any open and democratic society and it is fundamental also to further discuss such sensitive issues as the armenian issue, the kurdish question or the cyprus problem. secondly, the past year has seen important developments concerning civil/military relations. the ongoing ergenekon investigation is crucial to the democratisation efforts in turkey, and indeed turkish citizens deserve to see this investigation pursued to the end, and they rightfully expect all necessary precautions to be taken to ensure a fair trial for all defendants. thirdly, last but not least, genuine democracy cannot be achieved if half of the population – women – are grossly underrepresented in national and local politics. turkish women’s ngos are relentless in their efforts to promote this agenda, as they should be, and we are their allies. the establishment of a specific commission on gender equality is an important step which i hope will help greatly to enhance political representation of women at all levels in turkish society. to sum up, turkey’s eu accession process can be a long and sometimes winding road, but it is essential not to lose sight of the basic goal of the democratic transformation of the country. that is in the fundamental interests not only of turkey but also of the european union, and that is best achieved by being both fair and firm with turkey at the same time, which maintains our credibility and the power of conditionality in driving reforms for fundamental freedoms in turkey. in this major effort i continue to count on your strong support. that is essential for this project to succeed in the end.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the european strategy for the danube region, tabled by mr silvia-adriana ţicău, mr brian simpson, mr jános áder, mr hannes swoboda, mr eva lichtenberger, mr michael cramer, mr saïd el khadraoui, mr mathieu grosch, mr iuliu winkler, mr victor boştinaru, mr ioan mircea paşcu, mr marian-jean marinescu, mr ivailo kalfin, mr norica nicolai, mr dirk sterckx, mr csaba sándor tabajdi, mr michael theurer, mr ismail ertug, mr inés ayala sender, mr jiří, mr hermit edit, mr ilchev ioanova, mr iliana malinova, mr jelot, mr kacin, mr evgeni kirilov, mr ádám kósa, mr eduard ková, mr peter lichtenberger, mr peter cramer, mr saïd el khadraoui, mr iuliu grosch, mr victor winkler, mr victor boştinaru, mr ioan mircea paşcu, mr marian-jean marinescu, mr ivailo kalfin, mr norica nicolai, mr dirk sterkx, mr csaba, mr csaba sándor tabajdi, mr michael theurer, mr ismail ertug, mr inés ayala sender, mr jiří, mr stanislava, mr ilchev, mr iván malinova, mr kac, mr kacin, mr ivan kova, mr ioan, mr kova, mr kova, mr kova, mr ennis, mr kova, mr kova, mr kova, mr kova, mr kova, mr kova, mr
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank all members who have participated in this debate at this rather late hour. i want to congratulate you on your level of interest and dedication to the subject. i must also say that i am impressed by the depth of knowledge and experience of the danube region that has been shown in this debate. i believe this is a very valuable asset for the union in the preparation of the danube strategy. i am sure that the commission and parliament will work closely together during this preparation phase. this is my response to my friend and ex-colleague danuta hübner and many others of you who have raised this concern of cooperation between the commission and parliament. it is indeed our joint challenge to improve environmentally sustainable communication systems, roads and bridges, and to protect the environment and preserve water reserves in the danube region. it is to save and upgrade die schöne blaue donau and its wider region. so, in conclusion, i would like to thank you for your support for the danube strategy. let us work together. the commission is ready and willing to listen carefully to your further proposals and to work together in the coming months to advance this very important strategy. (applause)
i have received five motions for resolutions (see minutes) to wind up this debate pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 21 january 2010. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
in writing. the adoption of a danube region strategy will be the culmination of the cooperation that has developed between states, local authorities, ngos, civil society organisations and other actors in the region, whether at national or regional level. a vital element of this cooperation is that it follows a smooth path across national, regional, local or even administrative boundaries because it emerges as a response to real daily needs of the peoples of the region, a response which is shaped through initiative and participation of different levels of governance and is not something imposed by proving that multilevel governance can provide solutions at local level. although the danube region concerns not only eu member states but also candidate countries and states directly linked to the european neighbourhood policy, the reality shows that even if all actors involved are not eu, they still share common challenges that do not stop at eu borders and which require joint action to address them effectively. the adoption of the strategy will demonstrate that the eu aims to further develop what has been achieved in the region so far through european resources.
mr president, in the last few days we have witnessed an unprecedented coordinated attack on the economies of the eurozone member states by the blowing up of the national bond spreads of certain countries such as greece, but also portugal and spain. it is clear that these countries were used to undermine the economic cohesion of the euro area as a whole and the euro itself. the same mechanisms that created the global financial crisis are now speculating unchecked at the expense of countries facing major fiscal problems. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the real question must be whether we will establish solidarity mechanisms at european level to shield the euro area and the euro and whether we will finally decide to adopt policies that will serve substantive economic convergence and not just monetary convergence.
mr president, i would like to stress that in this period of economic crisis in which some countries are in recession, there is a need in some others, such as greece, to highlight certain aspects of gender equality issues, since women are affected by the crisis more than men. in recent years much has been done and the european legal order provides the possibility and specific tools in this area, but the community directives on equal treatment for men and women are not yet incorporated into national law. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject.
mr president, tomorrow we are voting on the new european commission: we are therefore becoming the united states of europe. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject. the european union must take very careful steps in relation to the enlargement of the union to other countries, especially as regards immigration, which is a huge problem for the future of europe and which i believe should be tackled not only within the framework of national governments but also by a common policy on the part of the european union. i would therefore ask that this matter be given special attention by our committee and by the house.
mr president, i would like to refer to a matter which i consider to be of great political importance, and which concerns the national parliaments and their cooperation with the european parliament in the context of the efforts being made today in europe to achieve economic recovery and fiscal consolidation. in the wake of the financial crisis, we are all talking about the need to strengthen the euro, about the cohesion of the euro area, but also about the economic disparities that exist in the european union and about the solidarity mechanisms that should be developed. i believe that in this context, the joint dialogue between the european parliament and national parliaments will highlight the common objective, the shared responsibility and solidarity that we must show at european and national level in order to take the right decisions and implement them correctly, often with a long-term perspective that is not easily understood, especially by colleagues at national level, but also to bear the political costs that are needed in our countries. i believe that we can develop this dialogue on our own initiative.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, there is no doubt that these reports are a positive attempt to create a legislative framework for administrative cooperation at european union level in matters of direct and indirect taxation, except in the field of vat and excise duties. i should like to say, however, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, that the reports and the proposals for directives, etc., deal with the problem of tax evasion and tax fraud. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the directive on the taxation of savings income. the first concerns tax competition within the union, which does nothing to promote solidarity and economic and social cohesion between member states. we must face the problem and find solutions. the second concerns the existence and operation of offshore companies. these companies are known to be hotbeds of tax evasion and money laundering. the intention of the greek government, for example, to tax only 10% of the transactions involved is a scandal. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the financial interests of the european communities against fraud is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr pimenta, for his report, which is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr pimenta, for his report, which is a very good one. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud and tax evasion, and has also taken steps to ensure that the member states can generate revenue at a time when redistributive and development policies are urgently needed.
madam president, very rightly this important 2009 report recognises that violence is a fundamental obstacle to equality between women and men. but it does not specifically mention domestic violence. unfortunately, this phenomenon is rampant and plagues all societies. in greece, for example, 35 spousal murders have been recorded in the past year and a half. however, these support structures for abused women are substandard, if not non-existent. the european parliament should encourage the member states, and of course greece, to set up support structures for battered women in each municipality, with full psychological, legal and professional support and adequately staffed guesthouses for women. in addition, member states should take into account amendment proposals made by women's organisations and legal experts on legislative ambiguities and shortcomings around the issue of domestic violence. the commission has also proposed that the member states should introduce anti-sexist education programmes in schools to change social representations, i.e. those relating to stereotyped social roles.
i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new system of equal treatment for men and women, which is a very important one. this goes without saying, because this is how we should operate in an open, democratic, liberal society in which each of us wishes to live. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. at european level, i would like to recall directive 54 of 2006, which provided for the elimination of all forms of discrimination between the sexes by the member states by august 2009. i would also like to recall the european evaluation map adopted by the commission on combating racial discrimination in the european union for the period 2006 to 2010. i would also like to recall and welcome all the initiatives taken by national governments in the member states of the european union, most recently by the french government and president sarkozy, to promote legislation to ban the burqa in public places. the commission has already taken a number of steps to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not able to take account of the needs of the citizens of the union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the new member states are able to apply the principle of subsidiarity. i am surprised to read in a report by the european commission on the barcelona objectives for childcare in the european union that almost all european mothers say they are unable to raise their children as they would like, because of the overwhelming responsibilities they face in their daily lives. we must therefore understand, and emphasize as much as possible, that the failure to achieve real equality between the sexes puts at risk today's children who lack a balanced family environment with a strong maternal presence. it is a threat to the mental balance and the development of a well-rounded personality of today's children and tomorrow's citizens of the european union.
in writing. i voted against the proposed (college) commissioners because they will follow the same neoliberal policies that led the european union to the multilateral crisis and the great inequalities. they will promote the lisbon treaty and the eu 2020 strategy, which reinforce market dominance, increase unemployment, precarious and insecure work, the erosion of the social security system and the curtailment of democratic and social rights. the lack of transparency in the procedures and the democratic deficit in the european union are causing citizens to distrust and are exacerbating the crisis of legitimacy of the european institutions, as was recently expressed by the huge turnout in the european elections. the continuation of this policy is not meeting the expectations of the european citizens. the european left will oppose this policy in the european parliament, but also alongside the struggles of workers and social movements to realize the hopes of the young generation for a democratic, social, feminist, ecological and peaceful europe.
in writing. the european commission has the vote of confidence of the political representatives of capital, not of the workers. the members of the european commission were appointed by the neoliberal and social democratic governments of the eu member states and the european parliament, with their ability to serve the interests of capital unhindered as the sole political criterion for selection. the members of the european commission took care to confirm this during the hearings in the european parliament committees by untiringly advocating: •the imperialist character, the intensity of the eu's anti-people policy and its military interventions on an international scale to promote the interests of capitalist profitability; •their commitment to the completion of the single market and the four freedoms of maastricht, to competitiveness and to capitalist restructuring, in order to ensure the right conditions for the concentration and centralisation of capital. • the intensification of anti-people measures in a frontal attack on the labour, wage, social and insurance rights of workers in order to increase the profits of the monopolies. • the multiplication and strengthening of reactionary mechanisms of repression to suppress workers' and popular demonstrations; the kke meps are voting against the european commission which will continue and intensify the policy of exploiting workers, poor farmers and the self-employed.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the situation of the eurozone countries in difficulty.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the new commission is beginning its work with a big lie: the treaty and the lisbon strategy not only did not help to protect us from the crisis, but they are one of the causes that led us to it. he's failed like a motherfucker. the global crisis has highlighted the limits, resilience and structural problems of the european model of global development. the stability pact does not exist, it was abolished by the crisis, as the deficit and the growth rate of the public debt of germany, spain, italy, portugal, the united kingdom and greece prove. the crisis is not just greece's. it concerns the european union, it concerns the eurozone because of the decisions that have been taken. the left, ladies and gentlemen, had warned against and opposed these policies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the lisbon strategy has led to the dismantling of the welfare state. the european central bank is lending to commercial banks at 1% interest and allowing member countries to borrow from the money markets at 6%, what kind of cooperation europe is that? the european union is following the united states in its model of military service. how can we accept the american rating agencies moody's and others as the official judges of the economic policies of the member countries and let them determine the economic policy? the stability pact must therefore be changed and replaced by a growth and employment pact. the european union cannot and must not compete on a world scale on the basis of labour costs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, we have just heard the programme statement by mr barroso and the new group of commissioners. i have the impression that all of us here are in the same boat, not in the same flotilla. that makes a big difference. i therefore base myself on these policy statements by mr barroso and look forward to designing the future of the union on the strengthening of the links between the member states, particularly in the economic, social and developmental fields. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the euro, of course, has reduced the possibilities for 'unwelcome' capital to speculate on exchange rates. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union is the world's largest producer of wealth, and its economic growth is the main reason for the growth of the european economy. madam president, i shall be delivering a message to this house and to all my colleagues. the message from schubeter. the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the future of the european union, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so.
madam president, the speculative pressures on the eurozone and the euro, and the danger of the collapse of the economies of greece and other countries in the european south, due to budgetary problems, excessive debt and deficits, are being exploited by the european union, the bourgeois governments and other imperialist associations, as a pretext to accelerate and extend capitalist restructuring, to increase the degree of exploitation of the working class and the popular strata. madam president, the european union and its governments are blackmailing and terrorizing workers to get them to agree to the rules of the market economy and to the european construction of big business. to impose the reduction of wages and pensions, flexible forms of employment, drastically curtailing social benefits, the barrage of harsh tax measures, to uproot the poor middle class farmers from their land. it is a lie, madam president, that the capitalist crisis is due only to mismanagement, only to corruption. the debt and deficits are creations of the capitalist system, the maastricht treaty and, of course, the lisbon strategy. the european union and the bourgeois governments, which bear full responsibility for the situation that has arisen, are therefore calling on the working class and the popular strata to submit and to mobilize. but the workers must turn their backs on them, because the interests of the bourgeoisie and those of the workers are not the same, since we live in capitalist societies. in the face of the war declared by capital, there are large workers' mobilizations which we support and welcome.
madam president, there is no doubt that greece, like other eurozone countries, is facing large budget deficits and debts and as you know - as the commissioner has mentioned - the greek government has already put forward a fully documented, ambitious, but also realistic programme to deal with them. it is also an undeniable fact that greece, like other eurozone countries, has been and is the focus of coordinated speculative pressures whose main objective is to undermine the euro itself and the economic cohesion of the eurozone. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. as we stressed a year ago that the global financial crisis is linked to the uncontrolled operation of financial markets, we must now state with the same frankness that the uncontrolled operation of speculative capital is a key element of the current situation in the euro area and is being carried out at the expense of european taxpayers' money. the first thing we have to do today is to shield the euro and the eurozone from speculative pressures. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that until a real economic convergence is achieved between the eurozone countries, not only the so-called 'second rate' economies themselves will suffer, but the credibility of the eurozone as a whole and the stability of the euro.
madam president, many people are talking about the help that greece needs. this is the wrong message. the fruitless talk of aid is not helping. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i also heard that the big problem with the euro is the speculators. i wonder, when the euro was strengthening, what were the speculators? europeans ? let's not chase windmills. let's look and see what we're doing wrong. there is also a debate on greek statistics. but let us not forget that the statistics were also european. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary deficit is not exceeded. i wonder if the debt, and not just the greek debt, has ever been on a continuous downward trend towards 60%? the main problem with the eurozone, in my view, is that its rules have been applied mainly on political grounds and that controlled and controlled are one and the same. and a second problem, which we do not talk about enough, is the overall loss of competitiveness and the ever-widening gaps in competitiveness between north and south. there is no eurozone, there is no monetary zone with widening competitiveness between its parts, with a gap. it is a deadly long-term danger to the cohesion of the euro area and it is an issue that must certainly concern us.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary discipline is maintained, and that the budgetary authority is able to take account of the situation in the member states. moreover, for years some have argued that military spending is developmental. as a percentage of gdp, sipri reports that greece is wasting 3.3%. it is the second highest percentage in nato after the united states of america. it is the fifth largest arms importer in the world, with 4% of world trade. of course, cuts in defence spending are foreseen in the 2010 budget. the ministry of national defence is allocated €6 billion, a reduction of 6.63%. i wish we had a change of arms diplomacy that has brought us to a dead end. greece has no colonies to exploit. but he's got guts. we also need to activate european solidarity and promote international initiatives for a global green new deal.
madam president, commissioner, thank you for your kind words on the measures taken by the greek government. the government has indeed taken tough measures, the european commission has indeed endorsed the government's programme and a very tough programme of monitoring the implementation of the measures, which the government has provoked, is being endorsed. and yet, the sprints went up. the problem is not that the markets have remained cautious, as you said. the problem is that the markets have been speculating and speculating uncontrollably. the same people who created the crisis are now making money off the wreckage they created. what about the european commission ? i ask you the following: firstly, will you now take measures not only to tighten up surveillance of countries but also to tighten up surveillance of markets, and what? secondly, it is unacceptable that the discussion of the international monetary fund has been dragging on for so many months in the euro zone. but the imf does one thing: it imposes tough measures and then lends cheaply. and so it leaves no room for speculation. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets, which are not in line with the commission's proposal.
madam president, some ten years after the creation of the eurozone, it is clear that the european union exists, but unfortunately we are still working - and very hard - on economic union. we are witnessing an epidemic of attacks on the euro by the weakest national economies, and europe is, in the end, a spectator, not so much because it has been caught off guard as because it does not have the economic tools to react. there is no institution, with the exception of the competition commission, which can coordinate the interventions and actions of national economies in a period of economic recession. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think today's challenge has no national plates. it is a test for the euro itself. and i would like to believe that when we decided to have a single currency, we had already decided that we would now have a single voice and a single action.
acting president of the council. - madam president, i think there has been a very broad debate, with great sensitivity and concern about the economic situation, and very constructive, with a number of lines on which we can agree as regards the diagnosis of the situation. firstly, i think there has been a general confidence in the euro area. the eurozone will undoubtedly emerge strengthened from these episodes of sudden market movements, which have no explanation corresponding to the situation of the real economy and, as mr karas, mr sánchez presedo and mr goebbels have pointed out, who have spoken of the meaning of what some have called the protective shield in the eurozone, we are convinced that if the eurozone had not existed, the crisis would have affected european countries much more. we do not believe that the stability and growth pact is in crisis. the detailed procedure, to which commissioner almunia referred, for monitoring the programme implemented by the greek government is proof of this. the problems of the euro area will be solved in the euro area, which has the appropriate mechanisms for this, in a situation where, as i said in my previous speech, europe is clearly leaving recession and is emerging from the most serious crisis we have known for almost a century. and it is doing so in a relatively short period of time, which shows the economic strength of the european union and, moreover, that governments acted immediately when something happened that could have brought about the collapse of the international financial system. and of course, that immediate intervention necessarily led to deficits. at the moment, 21 countries in the european union are in that situation, a logical consequence of the necessary intervention, not least because, as i said earlier, in europe there are social protection systems which make it necessary for the most vulnerable people to receive aid from the public purse. i wonder what proposals the spanish presidency has in this regard. there have been short-term interventions, which i have already mentioned, by governments. a strategy is being developed to get out of this situation, but obviously, in the medium term and in connection with the exit from the crisis, the spanish presidency, as the presidency of the council, is clearly proposing economic union. it proposes that there should not only be monetary union, but that economic union should also have an important place in the european union, which is what the treaty of lisbon says. article 5 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union states it quite clearly: 'member states shall coordinate their economic policies'. the union will take measures to ensure coordination of employment policies. the union may take initiatives to ensure coordination of social policies. that is what the treaty of lisbon says, and that is why i am very much in favour of these guidelines for concertation. for example, mrs wortmann-kool, or mr feio and mr papanikolaou have all spoken about this. mr bullmann has mentioned the need for socio-political coordination; mrs podimata has also mentioned it. the same applies to the position of mr canfin of the green group and of mr pallone and mr gauzès, who have spoken of the need to regulate financial markets. mr verhofstadt himself has spoken of the need for internal cohesion in the union. all this is what we can call economic union, the internal economic cohesion of the union. that is where we must go, with clear political leadership from the union, which is already taking place. we must reflect on the fact that the day after tomorrow the spanish presidency of the union will meet - and that is the first thing to do - the informal european council will take political control of the situation and will send a strong european message to public opinion, to economic and social actors, a message of european unity, of confidence in the european governments, including the greek government, and of confidence in our abilities. an important european council is already taking place to set the course for a strategy for growth and job creation, which we call 'europe 2020', the first foundations of which 'i am convinced' will be laid at this council, immediately, very early, which means that we want to act immediately with political leadership in the european union at this time of need.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i would like to thank all the members who have spoken in this debate for their references to the policy, attitudes and proposals of the european commission, which i and my colleague olli rehn have taken very good note of. let me say a few things in four points. there have been many interventions; i cannot answer each and every one of them now, but i think that at the bottom of all of them we can answer with four points. firstly, i fully agree - and i have said this many times before this house over almost six years as commissioner for economic and monetary affairs - with the need to strengthen coordination within economic and monetary union and within the european union, because all the members of the union who are not yet members of the euro area - of economic and monetary union in its final phase - are going to be, except for two who still have an opt-out, although i think that in the coming years we will see them leave and want to be members of economic and monetary union too. for coordination we need to deepen and extend monitoring and analysis, debate and recommendation activities based on that analysis and that debate in the field of fiscal policy and other macroeconomic or structural policies. if you remember, in the report i presented here on behalf of the commission in the first half of 2008, before lehman brothers, on the first ten years of economic and monetary union, that was one of the first conclusions and since then we have been discussing in the commission, in the eurogroup and in the council and also here in parliament how to improve that surveillance, how to deepen it in what is today the heart of surveillance, which is the framework for budgetary discipline, the stability and growth pact, but also extending it. i agree with those of you who have said that it is not just a question of pursuing a fiscal and budgetary policy in accordance with our rules, but that we must go further, because there are other imbalances which put at risk growth, employment and the very situation of public accounts. i agree with all those of you who have said that we do not need to call the international monetary fund for all this. it is true that all our countries are members of the international monetary fund, but we can and must do it ourselves. if we have the right coordination, if we have the political will, if we use the instruments offered to us by the treaty, if we carry out our declarations of intent and our major objectives to the last, we have more than enough capacity and instruments to do the necessary work to deal with difficult situations such as the one we are facing now. in the case of greece, i shall refer - i have already referred to this in detail - to two elements which have been the subject of debate. first, mr verhofstadt - 'unfortunately he is no longer with us' - said that the commission had intervened too late. i do not know how quickly the commission was asked to act on budgetary matters by mr verhofstadt's country, but i would remind him that there were elections in greece in the first days of october. fifteen days after taking office, the new greek government corrected the notification we had received a few days before the elections, changing the deficit from 6% to 12.7% in three weeks! and it wasn't just about statistical corrections. in that huge slide in the deficit in greece, there has been a great deal of a complete lack of control over budgetary policy. that's not a statistical subject. do not ask eurostat to solve it. that's a management issue, a government issue, that let revenue fall or did nothing when revenue fell and let spending rise or pushed spending up because the election was coming. i want to make it clear that this is what happened. moreover, in relation to statistical problems, and in reply to mr martin - as mr karas has reminded me - at the end of 2004, i, on behalf of the commission, proposed to the council that eurostat be given greater scope for carrying out audits in cases where there are statistical problems which cannot be solved by means of normal notifications. eurostat does not compile the data. eurostat receives notifications from the member states. to see beyond the notifying authority, eurostat needs powers which it does not have and the commission asked for those powers and the council did not give them. and i have told the council that we are going to ask for those powers again: my colleague olli rehn, who will be responsible for economic and monetary affairs from tomorrow without any further transitions, has the proposal ready for the new commission to adopt at its first formal meeting, once you have been so kind as to approve it today. after that notification, the greek government presented a budget for 2010, which had not been presented before the elections, and we approved, not only in the commission, but also in the eurogroup and ecofin, the excessive deficit in view of the new situation, with recommendations that could not be prepared without having in our hands a programme, which is the one drawn up by the greek government and sent to us on 15 january. on the basis of this programme, as i said earlier, we made the recommendations on 3 february. it is true that with a magic wand, it could have been done on election night itself. but i really do believe that the greek government, the commission, the eurogroup and ecofin - the latter two have already started discussing the situation, even before we have presented the recommendations - have acted quickly. we cannot act more quickly if we want to solve the problems. if you want to make statements, of course you can act. thirdly, i fully agree with the need to strengthen confidence in the euro and in economic and monetary union. it is the task of all of us: it is the task of the member states, it is the task of the commission, it is the task of the council, it is the task of parliament. by the way, since some of you have referred to certain statements i made when i presented the recommendations for the greek programme, i ask you, for the sake of confidence, to refer to what i said, not to what others say i was supposed to have said. just that. and finally, the council meeting of 11 february, which was held yesterday, and to which mr lópez garrido, among others, referred, is a very important council. it's a special council because it doesn't have a lot of papers on the table. it is a council with two contributions, from the president of the commission and the president of the european council, and with an open political debate, but at an extraordinarily important present moment, with tensions in the financial markets such as we have not known within the euro area since the creation of the single currency and with a crisis such as we have not known for eighty years and to which we have to respond, not only in the exit strategy, but in a medium-term strategy so that the decade of 2010 is a decade of growth and employment. if i may have a minute to say my last words as commissioner for economic and monetary affairs, what would i like to hear at the end of this european council? i would like to hear a clear demand from each and every member state, starting with greece in this case, to fulfil their obligations, and to implement the measures to which they have committed themselves as members of economic and monetary union, and the recommendations which the authorities of economic and monetary union send them. we must demand that everyone complies and that everyone applies the rules we have all set ourselves. secondly, i would like to see political commitment at the highest level agreed, more coordination, better coordination and strengthening of the economic and monetary union as an economic area, not just as a central bank of the economic and monetary area, not just as a recommendation-maker. within our borders and beyond our borders, the economic and monetary union, the eurozone, must speak clearly, it must speak forcefully, it must speak credibly, because that strengthens the confidence of our citizens and strengthens the confidence of the rest of the citizens of the european union and the world in our currency and in our project, which is not just an economic project, because it goes beyond that. and finally, i would like the european leaders to say to the greek authorities: 'in return for your efforts, here is our support.' support cannot be free. that would create the conditions for future imbalances and future crises. the support must be clear support and we have the instruments to do so, in exchange for a clear commitment to assume the responsibilities, each one his own.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
madam president, we are all right in agreeing to support in practice the decision of the united states of america to close the detention centre at guantanamo and, of course, we are urging the member states of the union to accept prisoners. it is widely accepted that guantanamo was a mistake made by the united states of america in its effort to combat terrorism. but we must ensure that such mistakes are not repeated in the future, and especially in europe. unfortunately, however, a report due to be presented to the un human rights council in march 2010, soon, raises serious suspicions about secret detention practices in european union member states such as the uk, romania and poland. we cannot on the one hand condemn such behaviour and say that guantanamo should be closed down and on the other hand tolerate some of the same behaviour, which we may think is perhaps not such a serious problem. we all have to take responsibility.
acting president of the council. - madam president, i would like to refer to two very specific points which have been raised: one by mr salafranca and the other by mr scholz. the first case is yemen. in relation to yemen, i am not aware of any specific decision or decision pending adoption linking yemen with prisoners from there who are in guantanamo. the situation in yemen was the subject of conclusions from the first foreign affairs council in the history of the union, because there was only an ordinary foreign affairs council on 25 january, and there is a resolution calling for a programme of in-depth political reforms in yemen but no mention is made of the guantanamo issue. we certainly support these conclusions, as we do the conference which, as you know, took place in london on the 27th of last month. in connection with an allusion by mr scholz to the situation at guantanamo bay and the possibility of a change in its territorial status, this is a matter which arises from an international treaty of 1903 between the united states and cuba, so that we are dealing with a matter which is absolutely bilateral between cuba and the united states. i think there is general agreement that the guantanamo prison is a set of profound human rights violations, legal aberrations that cannot be tolerated, that we do not want to see happen again, that we have strongly criticised from the european union. and that is precisely why we want to work with the president of the united states, who has decided to end guantanamo, to close the prison at guantanamo, and not only that, but also to have a review of the prison policy in the united states. so mr vajgl's assertions about the intrinsic necessity of closing this prison for reasons of massive human rights violations are well founded, as are others that have been made. in any case, i believe that the fact that human rights are being violated in other countries of the world or that such violations may be taking place in europe does not mean that this situation does not deserve criticism or that we do not work to prevent it from happening again. i say this in connection with mr nattrass's speech, because i am sure he will agree that there is nothing like guantanamo in europe. the european union and the united states have worked on this issue in depth. i have quoted the declaration of 15 june last in which the united states and the european union commit themselves to working towards a deeper understanding of human rights and the fight against terrorism: the human rights violated in guantanamo prison, but also the need for the fight against terrorism to be carried out with absolute respect for fundamental freedoms and rights and the rule of law. it's important that we're on that line. i therefore fully agree with mr coelho when he spoke of the importance of the european union working together in this direction. but it is not just the decision of the united states to close guantanamo, with all the problems that it entails and which i described in my first speech, but we must also recognize that president obama is making a real break with the past: it is a turning the page, not only with guantanamo, but also with all the practices that have surrounded it. i think that's very clear when we look at the actions that president obama has taken. president obama has ended the cia's secret detention programme and ordered that all prisoners in the united states be registered with the international committee of the red cross; president obama has ended the cia's 'enhanced interrogation techniques' programme; american investigators can no longer rely on legal rulings on torture and interrogation techniques that emerged after 9/11, which is, of course, turning the page. and the relocation policy has also been reviewed to verify that it complies with international law. we welcome this, and we said so in that joint statement: we welcome the fact that there has been a thorough review of the us policy on detention, transfer, prosecution and interrogation in the fight against terrorism. and that is why we explicitly said in that statement that we took note of the commitment of the united states to rethink all security issues, as well as to thoroughly review the policies undertaken thanks to the decree of president obama of 22 january 2009. i think this is something worth pointing out. to achieve this, we must certainly work together, and that is what mrs muñiz has very explicitly referred to: cooperation with the united states. europe has often criticised the prison and europe must cooperate as far as possible, although there are two kinds of limitations: one that affects the united states, namely that, after all, american law and the sovereignty of the united states apply, and another that the states of the european union also decide sovereignly whether or not to accept prisoners from guantanamo. the position of the presidency-in-office of the council is clearly in favour of cooperation and calls for it, always with due regard for the right to security of every country and every citizen, which is therefore another principle which must be taken very seriously. as mrs gomes has said, we must therefore advocate cooperation between the united states and the european union, but also cooperation between the member states of the union. we must cooperate with each other in this regard, we must have a dialogue with each other; part of that dialogue also goes beyond the specific issue of guantanamo. it has been mentioned in some speeches, for example by mr hautala and mr czarnecki: the subject of victims. i think that is one of the elements of the dialogue that we must put into practice in our relations with the united states. i believe that this dialogue with regard to the victims of the various terrorist crimes is an element that must be worked on in the future, but in any case, as i said, a profound dialogue is being maintained with the united states on this matter. i would like to conclude by saying that the european union has a very clear position on the guantanamo issue; it is in favour of closing the prison at guantanamo; it is in favour of not violating human rights and fundamental freedoms for any reason whatsoever, and it is certainly in favour of fighting terrorism and the need to work together with the united states, which is plausible, since there is clearly a change that we cannot deny, a clear change with regard to the past in the us anti-terrorism policy, that of president obama, and in the whole series of policies relating to detention, transfer and interrogation. that is the line we must strengthen, help to consolidate. the council's position is therefore that we should work together with the united states to achieve what we all want, namely the permanent closure of guantanamo.
member of the commission. − madam president, first of all i want to reiterate that we believe that it is in the interests of all of us in the european union to close the guantánamo detention centre, and, as i have stated before, the commission expects further progress on closing guantánamo in the near future to be made by the american administration. as a comment on mr scholz’s intervention, i would like to underline again that we believe that the prime responsibility for guantánamo lies with the united states. however, the commission is of the opinion that we, the european union, should be as helpful as possible in resolving the issue and some important steps have already been taken by the obama administration. they were mentioned by the minister. in response to mr zemke’s question, we should indeed mention that obama ended the use of enhanced interrogation measures and techniques, and we welcome this step. in response to mr salafranca sánchez-neyra’s question about the 50 detainees whose fate is not decided yet, we believe that the us administration will proceed with those 50 cases and they will achieve a state or solution similar to those achieved in the previous ones. the commission has not yet received the report of the task force, so we cannot give you any specific clarification, but in general we believe that we want a due process for all. finally, we believe that we should continue to support a coordinated eu approach to the situation, and we will appreciate parliament’s input and efforts in this respect.
acting president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour for me to be here on behalf of the presidency of the council. i very much appreciate your interest in the positions to be taken at the next conference of the parties to the cites convention, the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora, to be held in doha, qatar, from 13 to 25 march. the council considers the washington convention to be a fundamental instrument for the protection of endangered species of flora and fauna, and therefore it is incumbent upon us to play an active role in ensuring that cites remains an effective tool for its dual purpose of conservation and sustainable management of natural resources. in this respect, it should be remembered that the european union applies more restrictive rules than the convention itself, using the precautionary principle to maintain or, where appropriate, reduce the loss of biodiversity. the next conference of the parties to the convention, to be held in doha in march, the so-called cop xv, provides a great opportunity for us to discuss a number of proposals to modify the classification of different species of flora and fauna in the appendices of the convention according to their degree of threat, as well as other proposals to improve the implementation and observance of the convention. the european union will play a constructive role in the conference of the parties, and i am particularly interested in hearing the views of this parliament on the various issues on the table. we have followed with great interest the discussions in the committee on the environment of this parliament with a view to drawing up the resolution, which will be put to the vote tomorrow, on the strategic objectives which the european union should set itself for the conference. i should point out that the council is still awaiting a proposal from the commission on the position to be taken by the european union on the documents and proposals submitted to the conference of the parties for discussion and, if necessary, acceptance. it is therefore difficult at the moment to give detailed answers to these questions. as soon as the council receives the commission proposal, the spanish presidency will ensure that it is examined and that the decision can be taken before the start of the conference of the parties. and the spanish presidency will inform parliament of the council's position once it has been agreed. as in previous meetings of the conference of the parties to cites, member states will work together to uphold the agreed position within the framework of the european union and ensure its consistency with union policies. it is important to note in this respect that any amendment to the cites appendices should be based on the inclusion criteria developed in the convention, which take into account the conservation status of the species concerned. these amendments should also take into account the importance of cites controls to improve conservation status, minimise unnecessary administrative burdens and ensure that resources are directed to matters of genuine conservation concern. the conference of the parties to cites will once again have to take crucial decisions to protect endangered species from over-exploitation to which international trade may contribute. the european union must ensure that the convention remains an essential instrument to contribute to the conservation and sustainable management of precious wild fauna and flora resources. the presidency, working together with the member states and the commission, will attend the doha conference in this spirit and work constructively to ensure its success. i look forward to hearing your views, ladies and gentlemen, on the objectives to be pursued at the forthcoming 15th conference of the parties to cites, which i will convey to the council. i know that the council is counting on the support of this parliament to face up to the participation in this conference, with the common objective that the cites convention will continue to make a significant contribution to the sustainability of our planet, for our own benefit and that of future generations.
member of the commission. − madam president, the forthcoming 15th conference of parties indeed offers a unique window of opportunity to improve the conservation and status of a wide number of species affected by trade. the european union is one of the major markets for wildlife products. therefore it has a specific responsibility to ensure that wildlife trade is sustainable and that robust international rules are adopted within the cites convention to that effect. it is a priority for the commission to make sure that international trade is not detrimental to the survival of endangered plants and animal species. in this respect the eu has been playing a leading role within cites and will continue to do so at the next meeting. the commission will in the coming days adopt a proposal for the eu position in view of this meeting. the common eu position will then be adopted by the council. in its discussions with the member states, the commission will make sure that the final common position supports ambitious and science-based measures. i would also like to thank parliament for its position on the most salient issues which will be discussed at the cites conference of parties. this resolution sends a clear message which we will need to take into consideration. while the detailed position of the european union has not been finalised yet, i can explain the principles and priorities which will guide our decisions on the most sensitive issues to be discussed in doha. in the first place, the european union considers that cites is an appropriate instrument to regulate trade in all species which are affected by trade. this is the case for terrestrial as well as for marine species and for species subject to important commercial interests or not. in that vein the european union has tabled proposals to regulate trade in two shark species: porbeagle and spiny dogfish. it is of the utmost importance that sharks at last receive the protection they deserve after decades of overfishing. a listing under cites appendix ii would put an end to unregulated international trade in shark products which is one of the key drivers of their exploitation. with such listing, trade in those shark products will only take place if they stem from sustainable managed stocks. the european union is also proposing to arrange for the protection afforded by cites to the tiger, which is one of the most endangered species in the world. 2010 is the international year for tigers and is a perfect opportunity to strengthen the current mechanisms in cites to allow for a merciless fight against illegal trade in this species and improved transparency in range states on how the tiger populations are conserved. i would also like to touch upon some of the other important proposals which parliament has also clearly identified. the first is atlantic bluefin tuna. i have to repeat here that there is no final position on this issue. what i can tell you is that there is concern within the commission on the current state of the stock and that we are working hard to find an appropriate proposal that will help properly address this problem at the international level. the final commission position will take account of the latest scientific information on the stock and of the outcome of the meeting of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tuna which took place in november last year. the second is elephants and the ivory trade. this has been a longstanding, contentious issue within cites, especially among african countries themselves. the commission is very worried about the high level of poaching for elephants and illegal ivory trade which has been observed recently. the protection afforded to elephants needs to be reinforced, and the commission will not support solutions which would present a risk of increasing poaching. in that context we believe that it would not be appropriate that the next conference of parties agrees on a resumption of the commercial ivory trade. we also consider that proposals submitted to cites with a view to downlisting some elephant populations from cites appendix i to appendix ii need to be assessed objectively on the basis of the rules agreed within cites. allow me now to say a few words about the proposal by the usa related to the prohibition of international trade in polar bears. we are all aware that the ice melting in the arctic is a dramatic threat for the survival of this species. this needs to be addressed first and foremost via a very ambitious policy on climate change and i think that the eu has clearly shown the way to go in the matter. we also believe that it is worth checking how any additional threat to this species might be mitigated. international trade is limited but might exacerbate the pressure on the species. our final position will depend on how the measure proposed by the united states provides real benefits for the conservation of a species. finally, on the question of corals, there is no doubt that red and pink corals have been overharvested in many regions of the world. at the last cites meeting in 2007, the european union backed a proposal by the united states to regulate international trade in both species and we have again co-sponsored a usa proposal for cop15. i believe that the european union should be consistent in this support as the new information available does not show improvement in the situation. i would also like to stress that such regulation would by no means result in the prohibition of trade but would just make sure that trade is possible when it is sustainable.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr president, mr leinen has covered the rest, so i shall concentrate mainly on the tuna issue. let's really look at it from a scientific point of view. the bluefin tuna is in immediate danger of extinction. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted by the introduction of a new trade policy. the scientific secretariat of cites, in a communication last week, is proposing to include tuna in appendix i, which means banning international trade. it says in particular that: 'the secretariat concurs with the majority of fao ad hoc expert advisory panel that these species meet the criteria for inclosing appendix i. the proposal is based on the fao proposal, which is based on the iccat proposal. the scientific part of the debate is therefore closed. let us look at it from a political and social point of view. the tuna stocks are collapsing. scientific bodies argue that if international trade is not banned, there will be no bluefin tuna in a few years. the fisheries regulation has so far failed to deliver. instead of the 19000 tonnes of bluefin tuna proposed by iccat for 2008, it is estimated that 50,000 tonnes were caught. we propose to stop international trade today, while we have time to save the tuna; the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european union can continue to trade within the european union, which is not affected by cites, and at the same time to compensate the fishermen and businesses affected by the export ban. the s & d group has tabled an amendment to this effect. this will restore the stocks of bluefin tuna and allow trade to resume. to this end, it is exceptionally provided that the ban on international trade may be lifted immediately once tuna catches have been restored, instead of gradually for the other species. if international trade is not banned, then bluefin tuna stocks will collapse, the fishing industry will be destroyed forever and then no one will be entitled to compensation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to protect the fishermen of the mediterranean, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the amendments tabled by the committee on fisheries. otherwise, jobs will be lost forever and a beautiful and unique way of life will be lost.
mr president, colleagues have already tackled the issue from all angles. i would like to say that i support the positions that mr milana has just expressed, and we must bear in mind that the inclusion of bluefin tuna in annex i will have many socioeconomic consequences, such as the bankruptcy and closure of many enterprises, especially small and mediumsized ones, the loss of jobs and a reduction in europe's competitiveness. we must remember that bluefin tuna supplies a market worth 6 billion euros worldwide. i would really like to hear some scientifically based proposals to ensure the future sustainability of bluefin tuna populations, but which also take into account the sustainability of european fishermen and their families. in my view, the best and most adequate way is to include it in annex ii. the european union is not fishing alone, either in the mediterranean or in the atlantic. the bluefin tuna fishery is a global activity. european fishermen face strong, often unfair, competition from north african countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. we have to make sure that everyone plays the game by the same rules. it may also be of some interest that japan has 30,000 tons of bluefin tuna frozen and the ban may lead to the stockpiles costing from $10 billion to $20 billion today.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr lambert, because his persistence and patience during the last trilogue has enabled us to debate this important report today and vote on it tomorrow, and to avoid wasting valuable time by postponing it until next march. the report is of particular importance because it provides for the extension of the scope of the regulation on the eligibility of housing assistance for marginalised groups to the whole of the european union and not just to the new member states, as envisaged in the original proposal of the european commission. it was inconceivable for the members of my political group and our committee not to include the old member states in this extension of the application of the regulation, because as we all know the housing problems faced by marginalised social groups, and in particular the roma, are a serious social issue in all the member states of the european union. we believe, mr president, that the report, by extending the scope of housing assistance to the whole of the european union, strengthens cohesion between all regions without any division between old and new member states. it thus sends a clear message that community funding is guided by the principle of tackling social problems in any region of europe where they arise.
mr president, in the last year turkey's multifaceted foreign policy has been causing confusion both in the international community and in the secular part of turkish society. where is turkey heading? is it moving towards a multicultural europe or a pan-islamic state? i would like to remind you briefly of its political behaviour towards iran, its unacceptable diplomatic language against israel, its dispute with egypt over the gaza border, and more recently the decision of the turkish government to abolish entry visas for seven arab countries. it is known that in many of them islamic extremist groups are active, whose members can now easily enter europe and the west. in particular, this issue of visa abolition has greatly challenged the secular state of turkey. if we are to impose new sanctions on iran, turkey's position on the un security council will be a catalyst for clarifying the course of modern turkey, otherwise we will be discussing turkey in this chamber.
mr president, our position against the enlargement of the european union is consistent with our position against the accession of greece, my country, to the european union and with a struggle to free ourselves from this imperialist weapon. the whole process of enlargement is accompanied by the strengthening of nato and the nato occupation of the western balkans, the secession of kosovo and the destabilisation of bosnia-herzegovina. the european union's questioning of the borders and stability of the region, the blackmailing of the serbian people, new frictions and confrontations in the balkans. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. at the same time, there is an incredible crisis in the balkans, obviously brought about by the reforms that the peoples of these countries underwent in order to join the european union. the european union is also taking steps to ensure that the european union's citizens are not left behind in the process of democratization, and that the european union is not left behind in the process of democratization. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the fact that we, as a group, are in favour of enlargement of the european union, and particularly of the western balkans, does not mean that we are not concerned about two things: the first is that what is being built is not a europe of social cohesion and solidarity, but a europe - a large market - and the second is that in some cases enlargement policy has problematic relations with international law. i refer to the report on fyrom where, when the rapporteur does not solve the name problem unilaterally - as in paragraph 17 - he systematically avoids mentioning that the solution is and must be sought within the un framework. the report makes the problem international as it is, not bilateral, and sends a more accurate message than wishing for a general solution to the problem. and also, o tempora o mores you will tell me, it is considered an important qualification for fyrom that it is participating (listen) in european union military missions in afghanistan. a country with meagre economic and military resources, and one which unilaterally recognises kosovo, contrary to resolution 1244 of 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to stress, mr president, that today, as throughout the 20th century, the balkans are struggling to find a balance between the difficult legacy of nationalism and the need for a common european perspective in the immediate future. the present draft resolution on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia attempts to strike that delicate balance. but he's not doing it well enough. the pressure to start negotiations immediately is creating fears of a wrong signal in the name talks. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the debate on the future of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to stress that any nationalism is harmful first of all to its own country. greece must maintain its own balance. as a greek and a macedonian, i appeal for greater sobriety, as the name dispute is about the coexistence of two different self-identifications, both using the name macedonia. such a compromise will be a catalyst for building mutual trust, which is vital in the present age of ecological crisis, where immediate neighbours must be seen as necessary partners in tackling it.
i am not denying that turkey is a large country, but apart from the internal social problems which the report highlights, it is also acting in a way which, in my opinion, is contradictory to its foreign policy. so, at the same time that the turkish government is trying to present itself as conciliatory, the country's armed forces are showing themselves aggressive towards greece, with continuous violations of greek airspace in the aegean and continuous harassment of frontex. i should like to point out that despite the fact that greece and turkey are nato countries, and therefore allies, turkey is threatening greece with casus belli in terms of the expansion of its territorial waters, and also that it does not accept the recognition of the state of cyprus, which is a member of the european union. the turkish government also appears incapable of safeguarding popular sovereignty within the country, while it is planning a new type of ottoman commonwealth, as was shown by the meeting in sarajevo in early november attended by minister davutoglu. the turkish authorities have also made a strange move in their opening towards iran, which is contrary to the established views of the international community and the european union. it should also be acknowledged that, in breach of the road map, turkey is allowing and possibly facilitating the movement of illegal migrants through its territory to european union countries and is not complying with its obligations to grant the right to dock and land cypriot ships and aircraft.
the three reports we are discussing today, madam president, express the european parliament's firm position in favour of continuing the enlargement process. but the differences are significant. i would like to begin by congratulating mr hannes swoboda on the report on croatia. it is a great joy for all of us that this country will soon be part of the european union family. the message of mrs oomen-ruijten's extremely balanced report on turkey is the same as in previous years and is consistent. turkey must comply with all its contractual obligations, as it has done with all the previous acceding countries. integration is and should be the ultimate goal. but there can be no à la carte integration of turkey's measures. turkey is a great country which must accept that continuing its reforms, respect for human rights, its substantial contribution to the settlement of the cyprus problem, good neighbourly relations, the lifting of the casus belli against a member state are the steps towards closer relations with the union. the report by mr thaler sends a positive message to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the greek side calls on the fyrom leadership to come in good faith to the dialogue so that a mutually acceptable solution can be found within the un framework. the greek government is aware that a new dynamic is needed in the process and it is genuinely willing to resolve the issue. we expect an equally honest attitude from the other side.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the commissioner and wish him every success in a very important area he has undertaken. the fact is that europe can and has the right to continue to enlarge. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of the western balkans, and we are all aware of the fact that the european union is a political union, and that the european union is a political union. but we must note that, particularly for the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, it would be best if our parliament gave a very specific message: that to become a member of europe, one must not use history, in its own way, as a tool, one must get used to contributing to the united nations processes and to resolving one's problems in a diplomatic - not in a propagandistic - way. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia must therefore be called to action if it is to have a short-term future. i would like to congratulate mrs oomen-ruijten on her excellent report on turkey, and i would also like to congratulate mr swoboda and of course mr thaler, although i have certain disagreements with their approach and with his report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. on the other hand, madam president, as regards turkey, i would like to say that efforts have been made, but no major move which would allow us to say that turkey is resolving its problems in a diplomatic way, that is to say withdrawing or beginning to withdraw its troops from a european country, cyprus.
we welcome you, commissioner, and wish you every success in your work. today, among other things, we are discussing turkey's european path. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the two debates converge on one point, they have one thing in common. and that common ground is the overwhelmingly inflexible defense spending of greece, which pays about 5% of its gross national product in military spending, not because it wants to. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is an official turkish policy of threatening war against greece - the so-called casus belli - and this is not just a declaratory policy; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing fleet is not affected by the current situation. this has to stop. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. if these are improved, the process of accession will gain new momentum, along with all the other obligations it must fulfil.
madam president, i wish i could be given the time to explain to the members of this parliament the reasons why the greek people are so sensitive about the issue concerning the name of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. unfortunately, it needs more than a minute. this story, going back to the late 1940s, is a sad story which ended in creating a false idea about them. i can assure you that greeks are neither nationalists nor expansionists. all they do is resist the use of a name which is part of their own ancient historical and archaeological tradition. i understand that the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, as a new independent state, is undergoing a retarded ethnogenic phase. serious academics in skopje do not support the nationalistic trends of their prime minister. they prefer to remain silent rather than expose themselves against the trendy phrase, which the thaler report rightly remarks, is liable to increase tensions. i would like this parliament and the new commission to try and contribute with a solution to the name issue, not by stimulating the nationalistic tendencies of the fyrom government, but by supporting the greek view, which fights for a gentle compromise that would, finally, seem to satisfy the people of fyrom more than the people of greece.
acting president of the council. - madam president, thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for this wide-ranging debate which has been structured around some excellent resolutions of the european parliament, and i congratulate the authors, mr swoboda, mr thaler and mrs oomen-ruijten, on this. i think we can say that there is a large majority of you who have spoken in favour of the enlargement process as an essential part of european construction. as mr brok said, enlargement has been a success in the european union; other members have pointed out some of the manifestations of the success of the enlargement process. it is also an essential element for making progress in democratic reforms, in the deepening of democracy in the countries which have been moving closer to the european union, which have been joining the european union or which have the prospect of joining the european union, obviously with the commitment - another of the elements of total consensus - to comply with the copenhagen conditions, as mr mauro has emphatically pointed out, and therefore to respect human rights. i very much agree with you, mr cashman, that the treatment of minorities is what qualifies a country, not so much that of the majorities, although also. this is how we must measure respect for human rights and, consequently, compliance with the copenhagen criteria. in this sense, the european perspective in the western balkans 'has also been a general coincidence' is a fundamental element of the progress of the countries concerned 'as mrs giannakou has made clear, as has mr winkler' and, of course, not only in the interests of those countries but also, as mrs göncz said, in the interests of the european union. in relation to croatia, there has also been a coincidence in the need for new chapters to be opened as soon as possible, but it should be noted that at present 28 chapters have been opened out of a total of 35 and that 17 of them have already been provisionally closed. the spanish presidency will continue to work to achieve further progress in the negotiations, in line with the conclusions of the european council and the council, to bring them closer to their final phase. that is why i mentioned earlier the accession conferences with croatia which are to be held immediately. the idea is that the process of the road map for the accession negotiations can be completed this year, as proposed by the author of the report, mr swoboda, and as requested by some of your honourable members, mr hökmark, mr berlinguer and mr lisek, who have spoken of their wish that the polish presidency could bring about the entry of croatia into the european union. so progress has been made with croatia, and mr poręba highlighted this. but there are also things to be done, there are shortcomings in the judicial aspect, as mrs serracchiani pointed out. we therefore believe that we are in an important final phase with regard to croatia and we hope that the negotiations will be concluded as soon as possible and that the country will subsequently join the european union following the ratification processes of the relevant treaties. the debate on macedonia has focused mainly on the name issue. the name is certainly not one of the copenhagen requirements, but it is clear that good neighbourly relations play an essential role in the process of shaping national policy in all states. the candidate countries, like the members of the european union, must therefore show the utmost respect for sensitivity in these matters. and, moreover, it must be borne in mind that negotiations are launched by unanimity, by the unanimous decision of the members of the european union. the solution to this problem, to which mr posselt, mr kasoulides, mr cornelissen, mr chatzimarkakis, mr göncz and mr paliadeli have referred in their speeches, is at present to be found both in negotiations within the united nations and in bilateral contacts between the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and greece. this is of course important, although the european union as such does not participate in such talks in the united nations. so at the moment it is not possible to say exactly when this conflict can be resolved, but i will certainly say that the presidency joins in the congratulations to prime minister gruevski and prime minister papandreu on the resumption of direct dialogue, which expresses a leadership capacity on the part of both presidents and which should lead to an atmosphere, an atmosphere, an attitude of openness, to which mr tremopoulos alluded in his speech. we certainly have confidence in the ability of the government of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to conduct these negotiations. it must be said that the prospect of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia joining the european union has always been of great importance for the country as a whole, that is to say also for its ethnic groups, large or small. finally, there have been numerous interventions on turkey and i would like to begin by saying that the negotiations are proceeding 'not stopped' at the right pace and i say this in response to mr van orden's remark on the pace of these negotiations. we hope to open new chapters of negotiation during the spanish presidency. i have mentioned some of them, but the pace of progress cannot be predicted, because it depends on the progress of the reforms in turkey and on the fulfilment of the benchmarks. and, furthermore, as you know very well, in every case, at every stage of the process, for every chapter, unanimity is required. as regards the protection of human rights, the fulfilment of the copenhagen criteria - a subject which you have referred to in your speeches and which, of course, is clearly mentioned in mrs oomen-ruijten's report - it must be said that turkey must undoubtedly make more efforts. it must do more, and i am responding to mr belder and mr salafranca and others who have spoken about this and to mr angourakis and mr klute who have spoken about the promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms. it is true, but it is also true that the negotiation process remains the european union's main means of influencing these developments, which have certainly taken place, albeit with some shortcomings. and that has been emphasized in other speeches by members such as mr obiols, mrs flautre and members lunacek, preda and balčytis. i think that this must be borne in mind when we make a balanced assessment of the negotiations with turkey. the cyprus question has also been the subject of numerous interventions. the cyprus question will certainly be one of the decisive issues in the coming months. and it must be said that the negotiations currently taking place between the leaders of the two communities in cyprus are positive, and that a better atmosphere of trust has been created. the solution of the cyprus problem would certainly remove this obstacle, or all the obstacles, or some of the obstacles, which may exist on turkey's path towards accession to the european union and, in any case, would send an important positive signal to the whole of the region, always on the basis of this objective of reconciliation - i think that is a very well-used description by mr howitt. as regards the additional protocol, we naturally agree that turkey must comply with that protocol. there have been constant calls for this and, of course, whenever we have a dialogue with turkey, the council reminds it of this commitment, which must be fulfilled. i should like to say that on 8 december the council adopted conclusions in which it was stated that, if there is no progress on this matter, the council would maintain the measures adopted after 2006, which will have a permanent effect on the overall progress of the negotiations. there have also been allusions by mrs koppa and mr salavrakos to other incidents: airspace violations, incidents in the aegean. neighbourly relations - i repeat - are an essential requirement for measuring turkey's progress in the negotiations. the council conclusions of 8 december, which i have quoted repeatedly, also sent a message to turkey in this regard. and i can assure you that the presidency will be following the matter very closely and will raise it at all levels when appropriate. in any case, madam president, i have to say that the presidency's position on the negotiations with turkey is very clear, absolutely clear. we are in line with the renewed consensus on enlargement decided by the european council in december 2006. this means that the aim of the negotiations is undoubtedly a future accession of turkey to the european union.
member of the commission. − madam president, i am very grateful that i had such an early chance to participate in this exchange of views with you on the accession countries. i promised during my hearing that i would come to listen and to take your advice, and today’s debate was a clear proof of the richness, wisdom and insight that are assembled here in this house. let me make two general observations. first, i take the promises i made during the hearings very seriously. i am interested not in having two monologues, but in having a dialogue with this house which would reflect the true spirit of the lisbon treaty. let me also make another general observation, and i referred to this a couple of times during my hearing. in talking to the candidate countries and the prospective candidate countries i always underlined the following four principles. the first is strict commitment to the copenhagen criteria; they are non-negotiable. secondly, a strict commitment to fundamental freedoms and rights, including religious and minority rights and of course women’s rights. thirdly, the process being honest and reflecting credibility on both sides and at all levels. fourthly, i will never underestimate the issue of integration capacity. on croatia, both parliament’s resolution and the commission’s position underline that croatia can count on parliament and the commission as reliable allies. if the country manages to deliver on all outstanding conditions, i remain confident that accession negotiations can be concluded this year. the commission, and i trust the current and future presidencies as well as the european parliament, will support croatia in reaching its goal. on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, let me stress once again that the country earned a commission recommendation to start accession negotiations on the basis of its own merits. nonetheless, the country continues to face many pressing challenges, including the political criteria. as was pointed out during the debate, there is now a window of opportunity to resolve the name issue, and i am fully committed to supporting the ongoing talks. on turkey, we are all aware that we do not have an easy way ahead of us, either for turkey or for the european union, as was clearly stated by many during the debate. i know, however, that the turkish government is still committed to the democratic opening. who would have imagined only five years ago turkish society and politicians openly and intensively discussing the kurdish issue, civil-military relations, the reopening of the halki seminar or relations with romania? nevertheless, i remain concerned about restrictions on press freedom and media pluralism. further legal amendments are needed to protect journalists, human rights activists and politicians from prosecution and conviction for the expression of non-violent opinion. as regards the accession negotiations, the opening of the important environment chapter last december is an encouraging development, bringing the number of open chapters to 12. i am hopeful that we will be able to open more chapters this year. however, turkey will need to make additional efforts in order to be able to fulfil the demanding benchmarks. it is therefore important that the necessary preparations are being continued with rigour. the commission also welcomes the reinforced dialogue with turkey on migration, which should lead to concrete achievements, in particular as regards readmission and border controls. in response to a specific question from one of your colleagues, let me say that the commission is aware of the recent developments concerning turkish lifting of visa requirements for lebanon and syria. the commission’s director-general responsible for these issues will be in ankara next week for talks. this will be one of the issues he will discuss on that occasion and i will report on these discussions. let me also add, having been requested, the following position of the commission. all measures that the commission has proposed and undertaken have always been aimed at ending the isolation of the turkish-cypriot community, as a means of facilitating the reunification of cyprus in line with the council conclusions of april 2004. we are implementing the eur 259 million aid package for the sustainable social and economic development of the turkish-cypriot community and its full participation in the european union following a settlement and reunification. the green line regulation is facilitating economic and personal contacts between turkish-cypriots and greek-cypriots. the trade regulation, on special conditions for trade for the turkish-cypriot community, remains with the council for consideration. coming back to turkey, the reform process is to continue and the european union should continue to encourage the process and progress. the commission remains committed to the accession process with turkey. our leverage and influence in turkey will become all the more credible and stronger if our commitments remain unambiguous. i am looking forward to a very fruitful and close cooperation over the next five years. (applause)
i have received three motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 110 (2) from the committee on foreign affairs and security to wind up this debate. i 'm not . the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place during the votes today. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
in writing. the resolution contains positive elements, such as recognition of the lack of medium and long-term objectives and the vague and meagre financing of developing countries. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the council. • take further action to reduce co2 emissions by at least 40% by 2020 on the basis of a legally binding agreement • the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. increased financial assistance to poor and developing countries for development and technology transfer a socially sustainable green economy that can boost investment, employment and improve quality of life. the commission is also concerned that the council has not adopted the important amendment to introduce a 0.01% tax on financial transactions, which could bring in €20 000 million a year to support developing countries in combating and adapting to climate change. on the road to mexico we cannot have the vague and disheartening copenhagen agreement as a guide. we need to radically overhaul climate change policy so that there is a proper deal in the next negotiations. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − the fact that the copenhagen summit is generally characterised as a 'regrettable failure' in trying to find a global agreement to limit greenhouse gas emissions that warm the earth's climate only indicates the total lack of coordination at european level of member states with regard to the us and emerging countries. the copenhagen accord does not even set a target for the acceptable limit for global temperature rise. but i hope for a positive outcome and a strong european voice on limiting the effects of climate change at the meeting next february when the world's nations are called upon to present how much they intend to reduce their emissions by 2020.
mr president, a simple letter from the council that the negotiation guidelines will fully contain parliament’s concerns, that negotiations will begin immediately with the united states and not at some point in the future, and that parliament will be fully involved in these negotiations might have sufficed, and it would not be that difficult to give in order to alleviate this parliament’s concerns about the way it has been treated, ignored and played with in the past. but you could not do even this today. the bulk transfer of data, the commissioner said, is not a problem. only some data will go there. swift tells us that is not the case. the united states administration tells us that is not the case. there is no proof of what you say in this statement. you mentioned the negotiating guidelines that you are nearly done with. where are they? given the pressure that exists today, why can you not tell us exactly where you agree and where you disagree with parliament, instead of making general statements? i feel it is extremely important to fight together with the united states against terrorism. i urge the united states and council to work very seriously together with us after our vote tomorrow, and not to choose bilateral routes or dream about breaking the solidarity, but to work together to protect fundamental rights while we protect security.
mr president, is the council aware of the fact that in the past years swift has never once transmitted specific data because it cannot extract it, and always transfers bulk data? is the council aware of the fact that, precisely because of that, there is an agreement between the us and swift that stations swift personnel in the treasury department in order to ensure that the bulk data the treasury gets does not get searched in a bulk manner? is the council aware of the fact that the interim agreement does not include even the slightest concession to parliament? if i am right – which i hope i am – are the council and the commission committed to taking the bulk data issue extremely seriously in the mandate of the negotiations?
the next item is the joint debate on the fight against terrorism and the council and commission statements on body scanners and the functioning of intelligence services in the context of counter-terrorism strategies.
acting president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin this debate by thanking parliament for the possibility of a calm debate on counter-terrorism policy and on some of the elements of that policy in particular, and to do so when a reasonable amount of time has passed since the shock that the failed attack in detroit last december caused throughout the world. i am, of course, in favour of reacting when something like this happens, but i am much more in favour of working continuously, calmly - 'no hurry but no rest', as we say in my country - when it comes to dealing with a threat such as the terrorist threat, which, i must say in this house, has not diminished in any of the countries of the european union. we know that terrorists are watching us, we know that they are innovating, that they are trying to change their ways of acting to circumvent our counterterrorism strategies. this strategy must therefore also innovate and change, it must also improve and, above all, it must learn from the mistakes, some of which we make. that said, it is clear that if there had not been a failed bombing in detroit in december, we would probably not be at this moment debating the terms on which we are going to do it in this house. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the debate on the future of the community, but that it should be involved in the debate on the future of the community. the debate we are having here today is based on an analysis of what went wrong in that alleged attack and what measures the various countries are taking to prevent such mistakes from being repeated. and that's why we talk about data analysis, and that's why we talk about counterterrorism services and the common analysis of the data that each of them has, and that's why we also talk about body scanners. we're talking about flaws detected in an attack that, fortunately, never happened. if this is the debate, then i will begin by stating to the house the most obvious conclusions which i believe we can draw from the failed bombing in detroit. that's five. first, detroit shows that civil aviation remains a top target for terrorists. second, detroit shows that collecting data is important, but integrating and analyzing it is even more important. thirdly, detroit demonstrates that al qaeda affiliates are willing to strike outside what we might call their own territory. this is the case with al qaeda in the arabian peninsula (the alleged terrorist organisation behind the failed bombing in detroit) or al qaeda in the islamic maghreb, which poses a threat to all. fourthly, detroit reminds us of the importance of working on the processes of radicalization. the personality of the alleged terrorist i think is very striking in relation to this issue. and finally, detroit calls for us to look carefully, attentively, at failed states or those states which, because of their circumstances, might become so. the first and second conclusions - the danger that continues to threaten civil aviation and the need to integrate the information we have - lead directly to this evening's debate, or to the two debates this afternoon: on information and its use and on body scanners. i must say that this is not a new debate, nor is it the first time that it has been debated in this house. for example, in the debate on the last report by the coordinator for the fight against terrorism, mr de kerchove, here in this house on 26 november - a report which is certainly interesting and clear - there was talk of information management and there was also talk of the protection of personal data, because, in fact, information and the analysis of that information are, as we have had occasion to discuss here this afternoon, fundamental parts of the fight to prevent and prosecute terrorism. we must identify the terrorists; we must know where they may be carrying out the attack, who or who is supplying them with weapons; we must know the material infrastructure on which they rely; we must know their communication systems; and all this through databases and specialised sources. to have all this information available, we have to exchange it among ourselves and we have to manage that exchange of information properly. it is true - and i hasten to say it - that some of the attacks we have suffered in the past could have been avoided if the information had been made available to those with counter-terrorism responsibility in a timely manner, in other words, if the information had been able to be handled comprehensively, intelligently - if i may use the expression - which is not always the case. and that brings us to the debate of information management. to exchange information and to do so properly, we have within the framework of the european union a strategy which we have recently adopted - in fact it is part of the council conclusions of last november - which precisely tries to make available to the security forces and the intelligence services the data necessary for the sake of usefulness and effectiveness in the fight against terrorism: the necessary data and only those, no more, because the abundance of data sometimes goes in the opposite direction to the effectiveness in using them. as stated in that strategy, the aim is that decisions on the exchange of information are taken in a consistent, professional, efficient, cost-effective, reliable and understandable way for all citizens and all professionals using it. a strategy, it says, which must take account - as is also reflected in many of the statements of this house - of the needs of the fight against terrorism, as well as, or at the same time, the rights of individuals, the right to privacy, the right to the protection of their personal data, which we have dealt with this afternoon. as i said at the beginning, another lesson we can draw from the alleged bombing in detroit is that commercial aircraft are still a prime target of terrorists and it is clear that the alleged terrorist managed to get on the plane with enough explosives to blow it up in the air by bypassing all our surveillance systems, all the systems or security devices at our airports. in other words, it is clear that we must proceed to review these security arrangements because they have clearly been insufficient to prevent an attack which, fortunately, did not take place, such as the alleged attack in detroit. in short, we must continue to improve our security services to try to prevent terrorists or suspected terrorists from boarding commercial aircraft. we must do so to prevent anyone from being able to board an aircraft with weapons, with explosives or with precursors of those explosives. and if we can't do either, we have to protect our planes so they can't suffer mishaps in flight. and this is precisely the framework of the debate in which the issue of body scanners, which is of concern to this house and also to the council, is being discussed. as you know, the commission has the power to set objectives and to lay down rules on this matter of aviation safety. these matters are discussed in the informal and formal transport ministers' council. however, i must tell you that this subject, that of air safety, was discussed at the informal council of ministers held a few weeks ago in toledo. and we have agreed on several things in this council: firstly, that it is desirable and necessary to have a common position within the european union on these body scanners and, in general, on all the security mechanisms at our airports; that it is pointless for some airports to be less protected than others because this simply makes us all, in the end, less protected. we would therefore like this to be a debate in which there is agreement, a common position of the european union. secondly, it is a difficult and delicate subject, and there are various aspects to be considered: first, of course, to know how effective this type of scanner is in preventing terrorists with explosives or with explosives precursors from boarding aircraft. the second is to know and analyse in depth the compatibility of these scanners with the right to privacy and the privacy of individuals, which is of concern to the council, the commission and this house. and the third is to know the relationship that might exist between the use of these scanners and the health of those who go through them to board commercial airplanes. on these three issues - the effectiveness of body scanners in particular, their impact on health and whether or not they are compatible with the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens - the commission is working on three studies which it will make available to the council and this house shortly. for this reason, the informal council in toledo agreed to wait until these elements were available to hold an in-depth debate which would enable us to reach, achieve, reach a unanimous position on this matter, which would be very desirable. in this position, we will take very much into account the resolution that this parliament adopted on 23 october 2008 in a debate on body scanners, which dealt precisely with the impact assessment on rights, the necessary consultations with the european data protection supervisor, the health implications and the economic impact. these are also considerations which must be taken into account in our future debate. i would like to thank the house again for the opportunity to discuss these matters and the president for his flexibility over time.
member of the commission. − mr president, we are here to present a combined view on certain aspects in the fight against terrorism. my priority as transport commissioner is definitely the safety and security of passengers. this is a major priority for our common transport policy and this is always extremely important. the attempted terrorist attack on northwest airlines flight 253 to detroit on 25 december has again confirmed the reality of the threat to civil aviation. i would like to stress that existing eu standards on aviation security were correctly implemented on 25 december at amsterdam schiphol airport. the incident showed first of all the failure of intelligence, a failure ‘to connect the dots’. aviation remains a target for terrorists. we cannot ignore this fact. aviation security must therefore be guaranteed by all appropriate means, in full compliance with fundamental rights. the travelling public, the media and aviation stakeholders all legitimately ask us whether the existing security arrangements are good enough, or whether we need to take further action. in this regard, the new screening technologies, the so-called ‘body scanners’, are discussed everywhere today. regarding the use of body scanners at airports, aviation security experts are of the opinion that these machines have better detection capacity than current screening equipment. some think that they are considerably better. some think that this is not such a big advance, but how big the added value of these machines is to airport security and what the consequences are for health and privacy is not yet entirely clear today. as noted previously by parliament in 2008, the use of body-imaging technology raises a number of questions, notably in relation to privacy, data protection and health. i intend to present to you in april a report on imaging technology and its use at eu airports. this report will address the questions raised in the european parliament resolution of 2008. we need to look at these questions seriously. we also need to make up our minds on whether these concerns are better addressed at national or european level. to my mind, an eu framework would be better. i say this based on our experience of a common approach since 9/11 and with a view to the efficiency of the single market for aviation. an eu framework guarantees uniform standards in relation both to security and to respect for individual rights. finally, i would like to underline that airport security is a much larger question than the introduction of a new screening technology. to fight terrorism targeting civil aviation, we need a large variety of combined and coordinated measures – intelligence, profiling, different search methods and international cooperation. as the minister just said, terrorists develop. we must develop as well, and body scanners are only one element in this variety. i look forward to your views and thank you for your attention.
member of the commission. − mr president, this is the commission’s new dual approach. as the former debate showed, now that we have the lisbon treaty, work at eu level now enters into a new phase. i am very happy and honoured that i will work together with you in the fight against terrorism and on other security-related matters. we will do this while of course fully respecting that it is the member states who have the final responsibility for all operational and intelligence work in this field. i would like to recall to you – some of you were at my hearing a few weeks ago – that i made a promise that i would do an evaluation of all counter-terrorism policies. as a first step, i have asked my services to prepare an overview and an assessment of everything that has been achieved so far. this will be the basis upon which i will decide how to move forward. we need to evaluate and to get a full understanding of what we have, its effects, what is possibly missing and what is overlapping in order to be able to propose new measures and more thought through measures. i look forward to bringing this evaluation to you and to discussing it with you. but this stocktaking does not mean that i am not fully aware of the fact that the threat of terrorism has not diminished. as my colleague, mr kallas, and the council presidency have said, we know that terrorism is still one of the greatest threats to our values and to our democracies. the denver flight showed that recently. we have statistics from europol showing that in 2008 eu member states reported a total of 515 failed or successfully perpetrated terrorist attacks within europe; 359 individuals were tried on terrorist charges in a total of 187 proceedings; 50% of these were related to al-qa’ida or islamist terrorism, and 39% to separatist terrorism, such as eta activities in spain. we also know that in 2008 we had the tragic events and the horrible bombing in mumbai, which also targeted european citizens, among them members of this house. these events and the figures from europol speak a clear language: terrorism is still there, and it is important that we do not lower our guard and we ensure that all tools are deployed in the fight against terrorism, while of course always fully respecting fundamental rights. if we look at the instruments that we do have today we have the eu counter-terrorism strategy, developed after the attacks in madrid and in london. this strategy highlights the eu’s commitment to combating terrorism globally while respecting human rights and to making europe safer, allowing its citizens to live in an area of freedom, security and justice. this, of course, is a commitment that it still valid. there can be no freedom without security and there can be no security without freedom. that is why respecting fundamental rights in the fight against terrorism is not only a requirement of any democratic society but is a necessity in order to ensure that our policies remain credible, legitimate and sustainable. that is why the commission will only propose measures that will continue to be subject to eu law screening, especially with regard to fundamental rights and rigorous impact assessment, including the impact on personal data and individuals. terrorism is, as we know, a global phenomenon, and that is why we will remain dedicated to cooperating with our allies and partners and international organisations all over the world. regarding the internal dimension of countering and preventing terrorism, we do have in our counter-terrorist strategy some key objectives on how the union can contribute in the fight against terrorism. i fully share these objectives, in particular the need to stop violent radicalisation, protect our critical infrastructure, support victims, improve exchange of information between national authorities and cooperate with all appropriate stakeholders. we have to react to non-conventional threats and to improve the detection of threats. we have to deprive terrorists of financial resources and to invest more in research and technological development. this development on these policies has of course been strongly supported by the european commission in cooperation with the member states. over the past year, the commission has made a major contribution to approximating the legal frameworks of member states in this work. we have, for instance, the european arrest warrant, which created an eu-wide common understanding on terrorist crime and facilitated extradition procedures within the eu member states. we have also undertaken important activities to counter the terrorist abuse of the internet, addressing conditions conducive to terrorist radicalisation, launching a european programme for the protection of critical infrastructure, and limiting access by terrorists to the means they need to commit their acts – funding and explosives. the eu action plan for enhancing the security of explosives foresees important measures to raise the threshold for terrorists who want to use explosives for an attack. i would propose a legislative framework to address the dangers associated with precursors which can be used to fabricate improvised explosive devices. i will do so this year. we also have the cbrn action plan proposed by the commission last june and agreed by the council. this action plan consists of 130 measures. the commission has earmarked up to eur 100 million which could be made available from its existing financial programmes to facilitate implementation. i am fully committed to ensuring that, in the coming years, the european commission will continue to develop its role as facilitator and catalyst for cooperation, expert networks, exchanging best practices, pooling resources, improving research and developing common approaches to transnational challenges. we will also have to revise how we use our financial resources. this might be by creating an internal security fund, which is foreseen in the stockholm programme. on a large scale, international information exchange concerning the collection of data and storage of data concerning thousands of citizens has to take account – and this was very visible in the last debate we had – of very high data-protection standards in order to prevent abuse and mishandling. we also have to make sure, as commissioner kallas said, that we connect the dots in an appropriate way. together with my colleague, viviane reding, i will submit in the near future a combined data protection regime that would also cover police and judicial cooperation. all this will be considered in the evaluation and it will be under the umbrella of the internal security strategy that we will put forward to you within a short time. finally, let me conclude by underlining that, in the long run, we can only succeed in fighting against terrorism if we remain able to communicate our values and remain respectful of fundamental rights. we have to avoid our policies being perceived as ambiguous or as applying double standards. we can only defend high moral ground and prevent alienation from our societies and our way of living if we remain faithful to our values of democracy and the rule of law.
you gave us a very hopeful prospect. maybe one day we will have you, mr kallas and ms reding representing the commission at the same time.
due to time constraints, i will not be accepting any more interventions under the blue card and catch the eye procedures.
colleagues, we now come to catch-the-eye. these are the names i will call out. i will simply stop the microphone after one minute. i will not bang my gavel, i will not beg and i do not want to be misunderstood. i shall call the speakers in the order that i have: mr zasada mr iacolino mr matula mr leichtfried mr enciu ms flašíková beňová mr tannock ms ernstms rivasiand mr mölzer. one minute each, and that is it. apologies to the rest of you.
acting president of the council. - mr president, i have listened carefully to the speeches of all the groups and all the members on this subject. i think it's been a tremendously interesting set of exhibitions, which i appreciate. i would like to stress, as i did in my first speech, that i am not in the least in favour of debates on such a complex and sensitive subject as the fight against terrorism following the attacks or the alleged attacks. it is clear that we have to examine these attacks or these alleged attacks to find out what went wrong with our security systems, but it is no less so because, as has been repeatedly pointed out here this afternoon, counter-terrorism policy must be a deliberate, calm, well-considered policy, applied proportionately. if we adopt measures which end up undermining our principles, we are probably making a big mistake. we must therefore analyse, for example, what happened in detroit, in order to try to avoid mistakes, but we must not act compulsively behind every attack, because this would probably lead us to take measures which, in some cases, simply would not make sense. europe has a strategy on counter-terrorism policy. we have a good strategy for combating terrorism in the european union. the strategy has proved effective in recent years: we need only look at the different actions of the security forces in the various countries and see to what extent these actions are often the result of the implementation of the common strategy we have had for some years now. we have a figure, a counterterrorism policy coordinator, whose speeches are interesting speeches. i would once again recommend that you study the last speech you made in this house in depth, because i think it is an excellent speech which shows to what extent we have a strategy, a strategy which we have been trying to put into practice in recent times in the field of prevention, whereas in the first years of its implementation we concentrated much more on persecution. it is true that the most important thing in the face of terrorism is to prevent it: it is to prevent attacks. and that is why we are concentrating our joint efforts - again - on prevention. and that is why we are concerned about issues such as radicalisation, which i have mentioned in my speech and the commissioner has also mentioned. we are concerned to analyse the whole range of policies that we are implementing in each of the countries to prevent these processes of radicalisation, which are certainly at the root of a good part of the terrorist attacks we have suffered in recent years. we are also concerned about the proper exchange of information. it has been pointed out here on several occasions: the important thing is not to transmit all the information you have, the important thing is to transmit the relevant information to the one who is going to receive it. that's the information that needs to be passed on. it's not about stuffing ourselves with information. it is precisely the mechanisms for managing this information that make this exchange particularly effective. and in recent times we are making a lot of improvements in the european union in this area as well. we have a strategy which, if implemented, will make it possible, for example, for our information exchange systems to work better. and when i say information exchange, i am thinking of europol, i am thinking of eurojust, i am thinking of the operation of the cosi, to which some of its members have referred in this parliament, i am thinking, ultimately, of exchanging information and doing so more and more effectively. and finally, it is true that the controversy over body scanners is on the table, and i think, as i said in the first speech and as the commissioner and the commissioner have also said, that this is a subject we have to deal with and ideally we should find a common european formulation. it is true that if we do not find it, each country will be able to set its own policies and, probably, even if we did find it, there could be countries which, within the framework of their own law, could set their own policies. but there is no doubt that a common position on this matter would help us enormously. and to take that position, and in accordance with what i said at the beginning of this speech, it is good to have a calm and balanced debate, made up of three elements which are being studied by the commission at the moment: firstly, the effectiveness of these scanners (whether or not they are effective; what are the limits of these scanners and whether or not they are useful for what we want them to be useful for); secondly, their compatibility or not with fundamental rights, individual freedoms; and thirdly, their compatibility or not with the health of those who are going to pass through them. i think those are the three issues we need to study. once we have the reports on the table, we will adopt a common position which i think is necessary. mr president, i thank you once again for the speeches which have been made in this house and which i consider to be extremely useful for the work of the council.
member of the commission. − mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your contributions, but i must say that we have not got a proposal today to introduce some new machines in a compulsory manner in all member states and all airports. this is not the case. we are just in a process of careful examination of these new technologies and we will come to you after april, after a substantial report which will examine all aspects of these new technologies. i myself have certain doubts, especially about efficiency and, as somebody said here, the proportionality of using this new technology, but we should not reject outright new technologies. terrorism develops and we, too, must use all technological developments to defend our citizens and passengers. so do not demonise new technologies. we will, together with colleagues cecilia malmström and viviane reding, propose a common european approach with all necessary requirements concerning all technological, legal, fundamental rights and privacy issues and aspects. we definitely will propose some common european approach, an approach on which i believe there is consensual understanding and which is preferred here and, i understand, also in many member states. so this is what we will do in the near future. we will come with a report and then we will continue this discussion. believe me, we do not have any conspiracy to introduce some kind of new machines immediately; there is no technological solution which is totally bullet-proof or which guarantees 100% security, and aviation security is an especially complex area where we need a large variety of combined measures and also very strong international cooperation. so after this report we will come with concrete proposals and we will definitely propose a common european approach on what the standards might be and what the requirements might be if member states opt for the introduction or use of new screening technologies.
member of the commission. − mr president, this is indeed an extremely important debate. counter-terrorism is an important tool for fighting terrorism. we have painful experiences within the european union of the effects of terrorism and the threat that it presents, not only to individuals but to societies, democracy and our fundamental values. member states, of course, have the operational responsibility and the responsibility for their intelligence, but i am convinced that we can do much more at european level to coordinate and to fine-tune the tools that we have. that is why i have asked my services to, very quickly, carry out an analysis of the policies, of the framework, of the tools that we already have, in order to see what can be improved and how we can use them in an even more intelligent way. i agree with certain members who have said that. i am also convinced that europol, eurojust and member state authorities can work much better and in a much more coordinated way. there are certainly measures for doing that. events like the one in detroit are important as they serve as a kind of alarm bell, alerting us to the fact that terrorism is still present; it is still a very important threat. there are demands and pressure on us politicians to do things quickly, to introduce improvements and to protect the citizens immediately. this is totally natural. we have a responsibility to protect security, but also to act after thorough analysis, assessment and discussion so we propose appropriate and proportional measures, as commissioner siim kallas and as the council have also said. we will do this. we will also have to give full consideration to respect for fundamental rights. so this is how this commission will work. we will come back to you with more detailed proposals after this evaluation has been carried out and discuss this further with you. thank you very much for an important and very engaging debate.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the statement by the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy and vice-president of the commission on the situation in ukraine.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. as indicated in the relevant studies, the lack of bank financing of trade is responsible for a significant proportion of the observed slowdown in trade. i would like to ask two questions: firstly, what has happened to the international commitments on multilateral trade finance? secondly, what has the minimum funding framework to facilitate access to finance at european level for businesses done? turning to the global trade scale, i would point out that the rules, disciplines and commitments of the world trade organisation have largely prevented the use of trade-restrictive measures, while allowing flexibility for the adoption of policies aimed at economic recovery. we call, however, on the commission to monitor closely the measures adopted by our trading partners and their impact on european exports, including the 'buy nationally' policies implemented by important eu trading partners. at the same time, we must not overlook the dynamic export trajectory of some emerging economies. in this connection, i would like to emphasize in particular the problems of competitiveness of european products on world markets, which existed and exist regardless of the economic crisis. finally, it is necessary, inter alia, to achieve reciprocity with our trading partners in terms of market access, to restore fair conditions of competition on international markets and to subject imported products to rules equivalent to those of products produced within the eu.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. when, for example, there are completely different growth rates between the union and china, the non-tariff barriers applied to us, which we considered to be of less importance when the chinese economy was smaller, have a worse and worse effect on us as china's relative importance increases and ours decreases. at the same time, as our relative size decreases, so does our bargaining power. there is therefore a window of opportunity within which the union can impose its policy and effectively reduce the barriers to our exports to the fast-growing economies, but also limit social and environmental dumping. time is running against us and because of the crisis, even faster than before. second point: as the context changes, the importance of the transatlantic trade relationship is growing, as is the promotion of a more functional american market, which will increase transatlantic trade and give both sides of the atlantic much greater bargaining power. and here is a window of opportunity because to build the transatlantic market takes time because it is a complex process. and how does the us assess the importance of this relationship? unfortunately, president obama's absence from the next summit in madrid is not an encouraging sign. the question arises: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, commissioner, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to say how pleased i am that this morning we are reaching this proposal for a directive on the prevention of injuries from sharp objects. we have a real health problem here that we need to address as soon as possible. we all know the significance and the tragic consequences of these injuries. i would like to express my confidence in you, commissioner, that you will bring a solution to this agreement that will be implemented quickly and that will bring us a considerable step forward on this issue. i thank mrs lynne for all her work. i also thank mr hughes, because it is our responsibility as members of the european parliament to ensure that our fellow citizens are protected. these are the health professionals, of course - we have talked a lot about this - these are the cleaning staff - you mentioned the staff in prisons - i would also like to talk about the staff in the school environment, in all the school medicine. but i think that, far beyond that, it is a matter of educating all our fellow citizens, who should not make the staff who care for and the staff who then handle the blunt objects take unconsidered risks. i would like to say that we will be fully involved in the european parliament, along with the rapporteurs who have committed themselves to this subject, so that there is real application in all the member states, and we will need to have a regular report on the application of these texts. it's really our commitment, our responsibility, and it's something that needs to be really popular, shared by everyone.
mr president, i would like to thank the old colleagues i met in parliament - since i am in my first term - the good mr hughes, mrs lynne, the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs, because i found a job ready for me on a subject which in some ways concerns me personally. my husband is a doctor, and a few years ago he was infected by a needle. so i know all too well the anguish felt by a family of a hospital worker who is injured by a sharp object. it was a really hard few days waiting for the results. i would like to thank the commissioner for his report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i feel that the european union is really achieving its objectives by taking decisions with its citizens and for its citizens. i remember something that other colleagues have said, but i think it's important to say and to keep in mind that there are a million sharp-point injuries. i cannot stress enough the role played by the european parliament, which has been working seriously on this issue since 2005. on the other hand, given the shortage of staff, a shortage which is particularly acute in my own country, greece, i would point out that we really must put particular emphasis on the very rapid implementation of this resolution, this directive. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. i would remind you that the european commission recently stated in this parliament, through its president-elect, that one of the areas in which it intends to invest is in the so-called white jobs. so let us save lives both literally and figuratively, creating valuable jobs in these economically and socially difficult times. in conclusion, i would like to wish the new commissioner every success in his work and, if i may say so, this: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope you will join us and continue with the 'left', and i say this because the approach that will bring europe's social face to the surface is very important. the european people need your attention, your brains in the workforce.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr president, and all those who have helped to bring this debate to a successful conclusion. we sometimes say that europe must get closer to its citizens. with this conversation, they really get it done. i was talking to a friend of mine, a colleague, a young doctor, and when i took this conversation to him, he was very happy to tell me that this was indeed crucial and that you should try to explain to all european citizens what you are doing. it is important to prevent and inform all those who work in hospitals of the risks they face. it is indeed crucial to explain to everyone that when they are working such tight hours, that when the spaces are sometimes small, when the patients are too many, it is crucial that these people can at least take most of the necessary measures. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the health of the population is not affected by the disease, and that the health of the population is not affected by the disease.
the reason why we feel safe in europe, madam president, the reason why europe counts so many years of life is, i think, that it has respected and honored national sensitivities. the constant dilemma of whether europe or the member states have the first and foremost say is both desirable and typical of gambling, especially online. the internet is an exciting place, but it also has risks that are very difficult to control. at the same time, the principle of competition, a pillar of the internal market, cannot ignore the primary issues of respect for the national public interest. the question of this balance is, i think, clearly reflected in both decisions of the court, which on the one hand understands and defends the concept of the public interest as safeguarded by national traditions, while on the other it objects to disproportionate measures which ultimately work to the detriment of the citizen. in the light of the consultations currently taking place in the council, we expect to hear from the commission how it will work to ensure national autonomy of action, but also to create an effective basis for cooperation in order to combat both the addiction issue and the fraud involved. in conclusion, commissioner, i would like to congratulate you and say that i believe everything that is said in this chamber. so, hearing you say that there's a different position for you right now but the same spirit, that's something i'm looking forward to seeing in action. good work, man.
mr president, yesterday there was a very important debate in this parliament on the swift issue, and both the council and the commission made very important concessions in relation to the problems that existed in the procedure and especially in relation to the fact that parliament was informed of all the aspects of the matter. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of personal data in the event of the processing of personal data by the community institutions and bodies is a step in the right direction. no one doubts that all precautions must be taken. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to combat the illegal financing of terrorist organizations and thus prevent a phenomenon which is plaguing the united states of america and europe in terms of terrorist attacks. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to say to you, mr president, that i voted in favour of mrs hennis-plasschaert's report, but i would like to make an explanation of vote, which is as follows: the communist party of greece rejects the european union-united states "terror pact" made in the name of fighting the financing of terrorism. we condemn the attempt by the centre-left and centre-right forces, the euro-autopilot, to legitimize in the conscience of the people the 'terrorist agreements' with the united states. the european parliament resolution, while not endorsing the interim agreement already signed by the european union and the us, calls on the council to conclude a permanent agreement with the united states, which would allegedly respect the protection of personal data. we consider this to be an outright hoax. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information is not used in the same way as other information. terrorism is used by the european union and the us and other imperialist powers as a pretext to violate people's freedoms and rights, to strike at the people's movement, to justify imperialist wars. the european parliament has been asked to vote on the report by mr glinne, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report, as did the rest of my group, so that the european parliament would not consent to the infringement of basic legal rights relating to the respect of the personal data of european citizens. the swift agreement is in no way helping to prevent terrorism. it is a deal which, in a vague and uncontrollable context, would hand over personal data of european citizens to the us authorities and intelligence services and to whomever else they wish to give it to. the right to security is in no way incompatible with the right to privacy and the protection of personal data. the fight against terrorism does not pass through big brother, the violation of individual and social rights and freedoms but through the promotion of solidarity, equality and respect for international law at a global level. as a member of the european parliament i had the responsibility to safeguard the constitutional rights of the citizens of the union, which some people leave to the demands of the american government and the cia in their so-called war on terror.
in writing. − although it is clear that the proposed rules aim at facilitating the fight against cybercrime as well as cyberterrosrism, the explicit reference to article 8 of the ‘european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms’ (echr), taking also into account the decision c317/04 of the european court of justice, makes illegal any positive vote on this subject, because every european citizen is obliged to obey the general rules governing the european union as well as the ecj rulings.
mr president, today in greece there are large strikes by workers in the private and public sectors. the anger and indignation of the workers have taken to the streets against the harsh measures taken by the greek government at the instigation of the european union and especially the last, recent, european council. in this, instead of taking measures to help weak economies, taking measures to put an end to speculators, creating an umbrella of economic and social solidarity, admitting that the stability pact does not exist and that its reintroduction would bring about a greater recession and admitting that the lisbon treaty has failed miserably, you are preparing the european commission 2020 as an enlargement, as a continuation of that treaty. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the crisis, and i am sure that the commission will take them seriously. the people of greece and the peoples of europe will soon be treating you as the people of argentina have treated the international monetary fund.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. they denounce the european union itself and the policy of centre-left and centre-right governments which agree to take anti-people, anti-worker measures to ensure only the profits of the monopolies. the european union, governments and the commission are trying to terrorize workers throughout the european union into giving in to the anti-people storm. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union, and it is also a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union. in the face of the parties of capital, the euro-road, the compromised trade union leaderships, the generalized attack of the government on wages and pensions, there can be one answer of the workers: a development in their own interests.
madam president, it is very interesting to have a debate here today on the strategy for 2020, but we all know very well that the extraordinary summit on 11 february was dominated by the so-called greek question. and we also know that this extraordinary summit has resulted in a declaration by the heads of state and government providing political support to greece, expressing readiness to take action for the stability of the euro and noting that greece has not asked for financial assistance from the european union. i would like to take this opportunity to remind you that the greek government and the greek prime minister have repeatedly stressed that greece is not asking for money, nor is it asking the germans, the austrians, the swedes or any other european taxpayer to pay its debt, which it will deal with, reduce on the basis of its own efforts on the basis of the measures already announced. and by the way, mr verhofstadt, it is not true that greece has assured that it has provided all the data on the goldman sachs bond, it has assured that it will provide it in time. but also - i do not see the president of the european commission here - i would really like to express my surprise that only the greek authorities and greece have been asked for clarification on a practice which was followed in the decade 1998-2008 by many euro-area member states, as mentioned in a number of foreign press publications recently. greece is not asking for money. it is a question of the future of the community. this should be taken for granted, not only because of membership of the euro zone but also because of membership of the european union in general: it is the expression of a policy of support, solidarity, trust, but also of a genuine and sincere one. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i am going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. greece asks the partners not to feed speculators with their attitude and statements and not to sow doubt constantly about whether greece can bring about results with the measures announced. because in the end, that undermines the effort that the country is making. we can't be ostriches. we all know that the speculators, through greece, were targeting the eurozone and the euro. let us therefore mobilise ourselves to take all the necessary measures to protect the euro area and the euro. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in an environment of global economic crisis, of course, it is not only greece that is in serious financial trouble. there are other countries, and we all know that. we are witnessing an unprecedented speculative attack which has recently - and i regret this - taken the form of slander and even of the kind that is being orchestrated by certain media. in any case - and you can all be sure of this - greece is not going bankrupt, greece is not going bankrupt. after all, our country never asked for financial help. what he has asked for and is asking for is political support. what he has asked for and is asking for is practical proof of the solidarity of the other member states within the european monetary union which we have. because, after all, that's what's at stake.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, the session went a little bit over time and the president of the commission had to leave because of other obligations, but it is an honour for me to answer on behalf of president barroso and on behalf of the commission. i would like to start by thanking you all for a fascinating debate, for many interesting ideas and for the enthusiasm and support you are showing for the eu 2020 strategy. without your support the eu 2020 cannot and will not succeed. i can assure you that the commission will be very bold; the eu 2020 will put citizens, employment and reduction of poverty at its core and centre. i can also assure you that we have learned the lessons of the lisbon strategy and therefore we will focus on a lesser number of targets and we will definitely improve on governance. at the commission we are very much encouraged by the strong interest and what we hope will be strong support from the european parliament. we are also very much encouraged by the sense of urgency in the european council where it is very clear that the atmosphere today is very different from that of five years ago when we were discussing the parameters of the lisbon strategy. but we need to do more; we need to get local and regional support for this strategy and most importantly we need to get the people behind it. we must make sure that they will not see it as another administrative exercise but that they will see it as an approach on how to improve life in europe and in their countries and regions. i would like to ask you, honourable members, to help us with this task. let us not compete among the institutions, let us cooperate, let us focus on the priorities and let us deliver the concrete results. in the eu 2020 strategy we would like to introduce a three-interlocking-pillar system based on a smart, greener and inclusive economy and we would like to build upon these pillars flexible initiatives which would be aimed at the bottlenecks, at the problems which are slowing the european economy, which are blocking it from using its full potential. we would like to focus more on education and training, so that the labour force in europe will maintain the competitive edge which europe deserves. we will keep the eu 2020 strategy linked with the stability and growth pact, because a solid fiscal position is key to the economic stability. we talked much today about greece and i would like to assure you that there was consensus that the euro area member states would take determined and coordinated action if needed to safeguard financial stability in the euro area. the commission will closely work together with greece and monitor how it implements the recommendations. a mission led by the commission with the ecb and drawing on the imf for technical support is now in athens to assess the need for greece to take additional measures. let me be very clear; we have the tools to safeguard financial stability in the euro area if needed; this involves in particular the euro area members, the commission and the european central bank and we stand ready to put in place a european framework for coordinating the action. but each stage in this process must be allowed to take its course, and it is now for greece to press on with the reforms and to put the necessary measures in place. i believe that we are ready to take bold action, be it on the eu 2020 strategy or be it on the situation in greece.
president of the european council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am glad that we have had this debate, i am glad that i accepted your invitation to come here at the very beginning of the strategy 2020 process, because we are only at the very beginning of the discussion. we have just had a discussion on 11 february, we will have a spring council at the end of march and we will finalise the 2020 strategy, or the strategy for jobs and economic growth, in june. so we have a whole period to exchange views and to decide definitively on the action. i am therefore pleased with the european ambition that i have found here this afternoon and i am pleased with the sense of urgency that i have found here this afternoon. there is one intervention which i have nothing but contempt for, but i will not speak on that. as regards economic strategy, i shall distinguish between three periods. the first is the period we are still living through today, the financial crisis and all its consequences. let me use a different language from the one i heard this afternoon throughout the debate. let me explain. i also want to use language that reflects the positive aspects of the european union, because, you know, there are also positive things that have happened recently. we have learned the lessons of the crisis of the 1930s. we are now one year after the great recession, and, in fact, we are now back in 2010, in most countries, to positive growth. this was not done during the 1930s. the crisis actually lasted until the end of the decade. why is it that we have this positive growth now? because we took action. we've taken steps to save financial institutions, not because we love them so much as such, but because without them, there is no economy. we have been conducting a smart monetary policy. we have injected cash into the economy, which we did not do 70 years ago. at least one zone has been created for 16 countries, despite all the problems of monetary stability. in the 1930s, we had competitive devaluations. we didn't get them today. we have pursued a risky fiscal policy, using budget deficits to stimulate the economy. we have not done what we did in the 1930s, which was to return to a balanced budget as quickly as possible. so we have safeguarded our internal market, which is not perfect. we must look into this further and mr monti will make us concrete proposals. but we have not fallen back into the protectionism of the 1930s. and so, we've learned some lessons from the great crisis that we just experienced. i'm going to take this one step further. it is thanks to the european union that the g20 was born, that we took the initiative to create this embryo of world governance. this is the first time that the major powers, new and old, have come together to fight the crisis, in an imperfect way, but we will continue on this momentum. and so, europe, the european union is not ... we cannot always put the european union on the defensive. there are also some very positive things that have happened. now, we have to get out of this strategy, what is now called the exit strategy. we must find a balance between abandoning the fiscal stimulus too quickly and returning in the medium term to a balanced budget, which is absolutely necessary to finance our pension system, to finance our social security system, to finance our health care system. so it is a difficult balance to strike, and the stability and growth pact provides the means to do so, because it does not require an immediate return to budgetary equilibrium. it is a question of gradually reaching the 3% level first and then, in the medium term, reaching budgetary equilibrium. i believe that we have pursued and are pursuing a wise policy. so, as far as the lisbon strategy is concerned, we know its shortcomings, but we must not forget that the financial and economic crisis has totally disrupted the implementation of the lisbon agenda. there were, of course, gaps; we won't list them here, they're well known. but i want to say this: some major reforms are needed, or important reforms, and these important reforms, at european and national level, will require budgetary choices. it is not by chance, and i have repeated it in the conclusions in the letter which you have read, that we want to link the budgetary debate, in fact within the legal framework of the stability pact, to economic reforms. because if we say that more research and development, for example, must be done, then this must be included in national budgets and in the financial perspectives of the european union. this requires certain budgetary choices. another consequence of the choices we are making for the lisbon strategy is that not all the objectives we propose are always soft objectives. it could be, you figure, hard targets. that's when the hard part comes. there is the demand for reforms on the one hand and the implementation of reforms on the other. i do not say that i have heard it here, but outside this house, at european level, there are calls for tough measures, for major reforms, for hard reforms, and when you go back to your own country, i see little result from all this. so we need a consistent position. it is not only the european union that will be implementing reforms. we can encourage, encourage and supervise them, but it is at the national level that many reforms will have to be made and, therefore, it is a matter of showing a very great political will, and political commitment is most important. it is often said that more binding measures are needed. but we have to think. i have made a number of proposals which i believe are more intelligent than binding measures. but even the stability pact, which includes many binding measures, has not succeeded in bringing some countries back into line. so the method does not say everything, the method does not solve everything, the method without political commitment, without commitment is worth nothing at all. i am glad that some people say that more constraints are needed in the economic strategy. but the treaty of lisbon, for the economic guidelines, does not provide for this. i myself did not draw up the treaty of lisbon, others did, but it does not provide for sanctions, penalties or negative measures when it comes to the application of the economic guidelines. look closely at article 121 to be fully aware of it. political commitment at both european and national level is therefore crucial, and without this political commitment nothing will be achieved. one last word about greece. i think we got the message across. the message was that the greek government had a responsibility to deal with an extremely difficult situation, which it also inherited. he takes courageous action. he told us on 11 february that if the current measures were not sufficient to achieve a 4% reduction in the deficit in 2010, additional measures would be taken. we have committed ourselves to more monitoring not only at the initiative of the european commission but also with the help of the european central bank and even with the expertise of the international monetary fund. so i think we have really framed, delimited the responsibility aspect. there is of course, if necessary, an element of solidarity. greece has said that it does not want to use it, but we have two messages: a message of responsibility and a message of solidarity, if necessary. of course, we must draw conclusions from what has happened in greece in recent years. we need to be more proactive in both data collection and policy making in the euro area as well. this crisis was also a challenge, a challenge in the sense that we must put more effort into the policy of coordination. in fact, every crisis is a challenge. we must learn from every crisis. well, we'll pull them off. the lessons of the financial crisis should be learned from the lessons of the 1930s: more regulation, more control of bonuses, more prudent banking policy. but we must also learn all the lessons from the experience of greece and others. i believe, ladies and gentlemen, that i have felt the same ambition here, the same political will to pursue an economic policy, an economic strategy, which is commensurate with the difficulties we are facing today. we are indeed, as many of you have said - and this is not the responsibility of just one or two people - faced with a collective responsibility of all the european institutions and all the member states. if we do not, we cannot save our social model, or we will lose our position in the world. so it is with that spirit that i have come to meet you here this afternoon and it is with that spirit that i will continue my work. (applause) i would like to thank
thank you very much, mr president. it was indeed a great pleasure to have you here with us for your maiden appearance in plenary. in greece we have an expression for someone who assumes tough new duties. we say: σιδηροκέφαλος, which means may you have an iron head in order to sustain everything that will fall on it during a difficult course. i think you have exhibited that; if you do not have it, you are developing it. thank you so much for being here with us.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on parliament's priorities for the united nations human rights council (geneva, 1-26 march 2010).
i would like to welcome to the chamber his beatitude archbishop jorge ortiga, the bishops who have accompanied him and the entire delegation of the portuguese episcopal conference. your holiness, i take this opportunity to express our solidarity and condolences to the people of portugal and in particular to the people of madeira who have been so severely tested in these last days. our thoughts and prayers are with him.
the agenda includes the statements by the council and the commission on parliament's priorities for the united nations human rights council (geneva, 1-26 march 2010).
mr president, the next two years are crucial for the crystallization of the un's role in the field of human rights because, as is well known, 2011 will see the publication of the human rights council's intergovernmental review. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. to what has already been said, i add the following: the european union is a major actor in the defence of human rights, and one of our priorities must be to speak with one voice internationally and to avoid as much as possible any disagreement. secondly, we must strengthen our cooperation with the united states of america in the field of human rights. thirdly, and lastly, the european parliament must, and can, follow closely the specific procedures that will follow in relation to the universal periodic review of the council, so that there is a real and substantial contribution from our side to the promotion of human rights in all the member states of the united nations.
acting president of the council. - mr president, i am very grateful to the members of the european parliament for their speeches on this absolutely essential and crucial issue, which, as i said in my first speech, is one of the core elements of the european union: the defence of human rights. in this sense, we believe that participation in the human rights council at the united nations, including support for the existence of that council, is a position which must be maintained by the european union. the european union has always advocated the establishment of a human rights council to replace, as stated above, the old commission and, moreover, believing that it is an instrument which can be capable of dealing adequately with the human rights situation throughout the world; a situation which requires action, position or declaration by the united nations and the members of the united nations. in fact, the presidency of the european union, the presidency of the council, has always intervened systematically in the discussions of the various sessions of the human rights council on behalf of the european union, and that will continue to be the case. the presidency of the council of the union will be speaking at the next session of the human rights council on behalf of the council of the union; this is of course perfectly compatible with the statements and positions of each of the member states of the union and of the european commission, of course, as another institution of the union. i would therefore like to say that we are in favour of the existence of this body and in favour of the fact that all the possibilities can be drawn from it, which in some cases are achieved and in other cases are not: it is clear that there are certain situations in which, as a result of the votes that take place, the european union and its member states do not achieve all the objectives. there are some really positive cases, for example the position on somalia: there are human rights violations in that region; there are other cases where it has not been achieved. but it's always more the positive dimension side than the negative dimension side in this case. i would point out that, in connection with some of the cases of countries which have been mentioned in the various speeches, we are going to talk about some of them this afternoon. i would like to refer to the case of iran, because there have been repeated allusions to the issue of iran's candidacy. as you know, there have been statements constantly. i have before me, this year alone, three statements by the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, catherine ashton, on the situation in iran, condemning and expressing concern at some cases of human rights violations or executions that have taken place in iran. as regards the question of candidacy, we must first of all point out that we are dealing with a matter which is still a matter of national competence at the moment (the question of the position of the countries' candidacies to be members of the human rights council) and, in any case, that the management of the human rights situation in iran, the human rights violations that are taking place and, therefore, the eventual acceptance or rejection of iran's candidacy to the human rights council must be carried out, we understand, with caution so as not to generate effects contrary to the desired. that is why we believe that the european union should try to have as coordinated a position as possible in this field (which is what is happening at the moment), while respecting national competence and, as i say, with caution. in short, mr president, we believe that the human rights council is a place where we have to defend the position of the european union and that it is the right place to do so; moreover, our commitment to it has always been to ensure that there is no turning back, no turning back in the universal movement for the defence of human rights and, especially, that there is no turning back in a conquest of humanity, which is to consider human rights as a universal value, a universal value that must be defended beyond borders, beyond traditions and beyond diversities, because it is something that corresponds to the inner essence of human beings.
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you very much to all members of parliament for the recommendations they have conveyed. we will make sure that we share these with the high representative. let me make four points in response to specific questions and comments. first, on iran and the candidacy of iran: i very much support the view expressed by the spanish presidency. i can only stress that each and every elected member of the council is expected to display in practice the highest commitment to the protection and promotion of human rights. on the very sad case of the loss of human life in cuba, the death of mr orlando zapata, i would like to express the condolences of the commission to his family and strongly condemn the continuous imprisonment of more than 200 political dissidents in cuba as well as other expressions of disrespect for fundamental human rights. the commission calls upon cuba to change its policy and to live up to its obligations under international law. we will continue to address the human rights issue in the dialogue with cuba, with the authorities there, and we will use this dialogue as a vehicle to press the issue of human rights. on the calls by many for the eu to speak with one voice on human rights issues, the commission is very strongly in support. the fourth point, on gaza: i think it would be more appropriate to take up this point in the next discussion on the goldstone report.
i have received six motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 110 (4) of the rules of procedure to wind up the debate. the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the agenda includes statements by the council and the commission on the implementation of the goldstone report's recommendations on israel/palestine.
the problem of illegal immigration in greece is particularly acute in relation to the rest of the european union, mr president, as is well known. and the reasons are varied: from its geographical location to the vast extent of its maritime boundaries. under these circumstances, the greek government's initiative at this stage to facilitate the granting of greek citizenship to immigrants in an unprecedented way is at least tentative. and the paradox is that the proposal of the government of the country with the most acute problem includes the most lenient regulation, at every level, throughout the european union. in this way it encourages, rather than discourages, illegal immigration at the expense of legal immigration. it undermines social cohesion, it treats the issue piecemeal, dealing only with the last link in a chain that includes illegal entry, asylum, deportation, residence and work in the european union. and it opens the window to acquire european citizenship for an unspecified number of illegal immigrants. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be able to accept it.
mr president, with all due respect to you, i would ask that you send us tomorrow the list of those who have requested a minute's speaking time, on the basis of two criteria: firstly, that they did not speak at the previous part-session and, secondly, the time of the request. i have the utmost respect for you and the bureau, but i do not think it is the prerogative of the bureau to allocate time as it sees fit. there are certain principles, and the first principle is the principle of transparency. we are waiting for the list to be sent to us tomorrow and i see that other colleagues agree and approve of it on two criteria, as i have said: the criterion of the time of submission of the request and the criterion of whether they spoke in the previous part-session or not.
mr president, not one green member spoke today, while five or seven speakers from other groups did. please, please, please!
mr president, i would like to ask whether i am on the list of those who asked to speak today, and whether i am also on the list of those who spoke at the last plenary. is it possible to have an answer to this question right now?
mr president, on what grounds?
mr president, the tragic floods that have struck the autonomous province of madeira remind us that natural disasters caused by climate change, lack of planning and infrastructure, and lack of information and preparedness can turn into human tragedies, as they have. i would also remind you that a few days ago, major floods, which resulted in the loss of human resources, also affected other parts of europe, such as bulgaria and the evros region in greece. i would also like to remind you that directive 60/2007 provides that by 2011 member states must have carried out a preliminary assessment of the flood risks for the water catchment areas and the corresponding coastal areas in their territory. it is our duty to put pressure on national governments to ensure that this directive is incorporated into national law. but it is also the duty of the european union - and i think there is no disagreement on this - to take even more intensive and strong action in the field of preventing natural disasters, ultimately protecting human lives.
in writing. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for his work. the extension of the european parliament's powers by the treaty of lisbon will undoubtedly significantly enhance the role of the european parliament in formulating tangible and effective responses to the expectations of european citizens. at the same time, however, the increase in the scope of its activities has created additional staffing needs both in the administration of the european parliament and in the political groups and offices of meps. the amendment of the european parliament's budget was not only expected but is also indispensable if the european parliament is to respond effectively to its new responsibilities which further strengthen its democratic legitimacy. i would remind you that a similar amendment was made to the council's budget to meet the administrative needs arising from the creation of the institution of the president of the european council and similar proposals are expected to amend the budget of the european commission. the adoption of this amendment will enable parliament's administration, political groups and members to cope better and more effectively with the new requirements.
mr president, commissioner, mr fragueiro, the current common fisheries policy has failed. most fish stocks are collapsing. 88% of fish stocks are fished beyond the maximum sustainable level. 30% of fish stocks are outside safe biological limits, which means they have very low chances of recovery. the example of cod in the north sea is typical, caught even at ages before the breeding process begins. the amendment under discussion is therefore absolutely necessary. the protection of catches is a prerequisite for the protection of fishermen. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing fleet is not depleted. the ecosystem approach should be the main principle of our new common fisheries policy, accompanied by long-term planning, participatory procedures and the application of the precautionary principle. this long-term approach to species conservation should be applied to all our international fisheries agreements. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear indication of the extent to which the commission is prepared to take action in this area, and to give us the opportunity to make a statement on the matter.
mr president, i would also like to welcome commissioner damannakis and to thank in particular my colleague, mrs maria do céu patrão neves, for her exhaustive and excellent work. all the important things have already been said. i would like to focus on three points: one on overfishing. overfishing is an undeniable fact. in fact, as mr arsenis said, it is estimated today that up to 88% of the stocks in european seas are threatened by overfishing, that is to say, they are being fished to a degree that does not allow them to be renewed. overfishing over time has led to ever lower returns in european fisheries, with the loss of jobs. the fish caught are getting smaller, much before they are even of reproductive age, and they are getting harder to track. secondly, europe is catching far less fish today than it did 15 years ago - about 25% less - while, at the same time, fishing effort and costs have increased. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing fleet is not over-exploited, and that the fishing fleet is not over-exploited. what we must not forget is that sustainability has three dimensions, as the neves report emphasizes: social, economic and ecological. a fisheries policy that aims at sustainable development must not only deal with fish but must also focus on people. fish, man, cormorants and seals are competing systems of the same ecological environment. finally, i should like to stress my determination, as several other colleagues have mentioned, to strengthen fisheries research. it is not my obsession, it is a reality that we must face in the context of what mr cadec said.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, of course this discussion, now initiated by the tragic accident in belgium, will be part of our overall discussion on railway safety and the development of transport in europe. the commission is preparing a white paper on the future of transport which takes serious consideration of all safety and security aspects of all modes of transport, including railways – which is, as was mentioned many times, still one of the safest modes of transport. it is also important that we now discuss the railway package – the ‘first recast’ of the railway package – and we will definitely work on this and consider it. but i would just like to make some factual remarks. the european rail traffic management system (ertms) has been designed with the intention to have interoperability of railways. it is obviously a good system which has very serious safety elements. however, safety still remains the responsibility of member states, whatever system is used. but the ertms is progressing very well. transport ten-t networks: again we will discuss it soon. this particular project deals with the deployment of the traffic management system. by 2020, 20 000 kilometres of railways will use this system in europe, including belgium. this is ongoing; but in railways things take time and investments are large and 85% of the ten–t network money is used especially to improve the railways, including the ertms. of course i would be very happy if, with the support of the european parliament, we could increase the funding of investments to transport networks. that will be very important. but again, of course, the human factor is always relevant. and as we are talking about safety standards, there is one standard – which is the red light – that means that you must stop. that standard has existed since the 19th century. so if we are now saying that there will be a 100% sure braking system which avoids human error – it is not true. there is always some small possibility for human error. and human responsibility is very important. i would like to make one more remark about liberalisation and public services: these are two different things. nobody is stopping states from offering good public services, even in the framework of liberalisation. it is allowed by european rules to provide support – it is allowed by states – and this liberalisation does not exclude good public services.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
mr batten, the previous statement was a statement made in reply to something said yesterday in parliament. that was the rule under which it was made. it was not a point of order, therefore your point of order was out of place.
the next item is voting. (for the results and other information on the vote, see minutes)
the next item is the oral explanations of vote.
i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a right to vote, but i am saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have the right to vote. it is unacceptable from this point of view. secondly, because i believe that the ukrainian people will only suffer from their membership of the european union. the resolution in question sets the stage for this and there will of course be restructuring in this process, as has been done in so many other countries. thirdly, one of the main reasons i voted against it is the reference to bandera. it is very good that the resolution refers to him. but this chamber and the european union have enormous responsibilities when we have such phenomena, not only in ukraine but also in other countries, in the baltic countries, as you will no doubt be aware, and the responsibilities of the european union and the european parliament are really great for the fact that we have come to the rehabilitation of war criminals.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the progress made in recent years by the european union in the field of equality is in danger of being slowed down, or even reversed, by the current economic downturn. but effective gender equality policies can be part of the solution to emerging from this crisis, supporting recovery and strengthening the economy. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done.
in writing. i voted against because i believe that the european union's relations with other countries should be characterised by equality, mutually beneficial trade and economic exchanges, non-interference in the internal political developments and democratic processes of each country and, of course, respect for the will of the people. the construction of a peaceful europe presupposes, among other things, the ability of each country to determine its international relations without dictation and pressure. as energy security is a critical factor for the countries of the european union, ukraine's role is important and therefore it should be encouraged to address energy problems through improving relations with russia through the use of bilateral agreements. this will be to the benefit of both sides and ensure the unimpeded flow of natural gas to europe.
in writing. i voted against, despite the fact that the resolution has positive elements, because important amendments tabled by the left group were voted against and as a result are not adequate in content. the european union must support the efforts of the un to ensure that human rights are respected throughout the world. it must play a leading role in such an effort, all the more so today when their violation tends to become the norm by authoritarian regimes that characterize them as 'capitalist violence' to enforce their anti-social policies. the european union must re-examine its relations with the state of israel, taking seriously the israeli military operations in the palestinian territories and the attacks on the rights of the palestinian people, including their right to finally have their own homeland. the european union must abandon the us 'democracy export' campaigns and develop a framework for international relations with respect for the rules of international law and a strengthened role for the un.
in writing. i voted against the report because the eu budget still represents a very small percentage of european gdp (0.97%), not meeting the needs of supporting weak economies and societies and financing enlargement. the need for a bold increase in the budget, at least to 5%, is becoming more urgent, especially today in the context of an economic crisis affecting the whole of the european union, in order to address social needs and stop the cuts in public spending. the problems of operational needs and the harmonization of the expenditure of the european parliament and the european union should also be tackled in this spirit.
in writing. the report supports the eu's common fisheries policy (cfp), which in the name of protecting fish stocks has led to the destruction of a large number of small fishing vessels in greece and the expulsion from the profession of many small and medium-sized fishermen, condemning many coastal areas to desertification and unemployment, concentrating activity in the hands of large fishing companies. the nature of the eu's pro-monopoly policy is shown by the fact that two thirds of the community funds went to big capital (fisheries, aquaculture, processing), while the remaining one third went to poor and middle-class fishermen to break up their boats and leave the profession. the measures to replace/improve vessels benefited only large companies. the report, like the green paper, equally assigns the responsibility for the decline in fish stocks to large fisheries and small-scale coastal fishing. it does not differentiate the measures required in fishing areas, ignoring their specific features. the eu's cfp serves the interests of the large fisheries companies that will be left to exploit the wealth of the sea and supports the large capital that is active in the aquaculture sector. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind.
in writing. i voted against the report on the common fisheries policy, despite the fact that it contains some points which are a positive development in relation to the current situation. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the marine environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the report fails to combine the necessary protection of the marine environment, the preservation of fish stocks and the social and economic protection of fishermen, particularly small-scale fishermen, with devastating consequences for the environment and sustainable fishing, harmful for fishermen and consumers who will also be burdened by the final price of the product, without this profit benefiting small fishermen but large private enterprises. the report fails to take account of the different circumstances in the individual countries of the union and therefore fails to provide the appropriate policies.
the minutes of this meeting will be submitted to the college for approval at the beginning of its next meeting. if there are no objections to them, i shall immediately forward the resolutions adopted at today's sitting to the persons and bodies to whom they are addressed.
mr president, i start from the basic assumption that the consolidation of public finances in a euro-zone member state is of equal importance. however, coordinated action is needed to shield the single currency against speculative games against the euro. the deep budgetary crisis in greece, as well as the fiscal imbalances in other member states, have brought to the fore the need for a politically-oriented european economic governance. in my question to the commission of 17 february 2010, i proposed the establishment of a european monetary fund. i am pleased to see that commissioner rehn is moving in that direction. we are waiting for the commission's final draft.
mr president, in our time, the widespread use of the internet has indeed allowed consumers to change the way they even plan their holidays. the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. and of course, with more factors now involved, the question arises of who is responsible in the event of defective delivery and who will ultimately be held responsible by the consumer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is also crucial for greece, which, as you know, is a tourist destination, that we define more clearly who is responsible each time (the greek hotelier? the travel agency? anyone involved in this process? the more reliable the tourist industry, the more reliable all those involved in tourism. i would like to conclude by saying that the legal protection of european citizens is crucial, but at the same time it is our responsibility, commissioner, to inform them of the rights which, up to now, all those who choose to spend their holidays in a european country enjoy, but above all to inform them of the gaps that exist and of the improvements we want to make. all of this is important. but the citizens should also be informed so that they can exercise these rights!
mr president, most of what has been said has been said. but i want to focus on four points. this directive is 20 years old. for a girl, twenty is a very good age. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and that's because four things came into our lives: one is the internet. with the internet in our lives, we can choose our vacation to the most remote part of the world without a second thought. but when we get there, we may find that we should have thought about it. the second is prices. the consumer has the duty, but also the right, to know whether the prices between which he is called upon to choose are within the bounds of legality, that is, whether there is no unfair competition. the third is quality. accommodation which in one member state may be considered excellent may be considered mediocre by a national of another member state. and finally, there is the issue of safety. because workers are people who have to work hard to save money to go on holiday, we must, we must, make them feel safe. that is what we are asking for in the new directive.
mr president, there is no doubt that the recent financial crisis has shown that the liberalisation of money markets and the obsession with free markets has allowed the financial system to grow dangerously in relation to and dependent on the real economy, as well as operating for years within a regime of huge profitability, uncertainty, without any regulation, which ultimately led to the crisis. the proposal for a financial transaction tax could therefore limit the size of the financial system and make certain speculative economic choices unworkable. it will be an empty letter, however, if this measure is not accompanied by a comprehensive plan for the regulation of the financial system, so as to limit to a minimum the abusive policies of the banks, the speculative games of the hedge funds and the rating agencies which today, in many countries, are aggravating and exploiting the fiscal problems. however, in my view, such a proposal should not be seen as a mere temporary measure. the banks should pay back the huge bailouts they received from european governments, which have resulted in a significant increase in their respective countries' budget deficits. these countries are now forced to borrow from the same banks and pay them back a second time. we need to be clear. banks must pay off their debts to the states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, commissioner, the debate on the taxation of international financial transactions may not be new, but it has become particularly timely today because the main lesson of the crisis in the world economy, and in particular for the euro area, which has recently been subjected to systematic attacks by speculative capital, is that the lack of transparency in financial markets and the lack of effective financial regulation and governance has had a direct and visible impact on the real economy, the sustainability of public finances and social stability. in this context, the introduction of a tax on international financial transactions is of particular importance, as it is one of the key points of the long-awaited restructuring of financial control mechanisms. the solution, of course, is not to introduce another european tax with dubious consequences for the competitiveness of the european economy but to draw up an ambitious european proposal to be submitted to the g20.
mr president, commissioner, although developed countries are responsible for 80% of greenhouse gas emissions, developing countries are currently paying the worst of the consequences. the most dramatic effects are found in the poorest countries, in countries which have contributed nothing to the phenomenon. twenty million are today environmental, climate refugees. and if we don't do something right now, it's going to be five hundred million by 2050. so our climate debt to these countries is huge, and it's estimated at a hundred billion euros a year. of this, the european union's fair share is €35 billion. it is very important that we move immediately to tax financial transactions in order to be able to finance our climate debt. at the same time, this taxation allows us to restore intergenerational justice by paying off our climate debt to younger generations, helping to finance our energy decarbonization.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am pleased that you have devoted your time to this important debate. the idea of a financial transactions tax has generated a lot of attention so far. as i explained, the commission is currently examining innovative financing at a global level and is paying particular attention to the following issues. first, the analysis of the competitiveness aspect. as financial transactions are so mobile and financial markets so competitive, the risk of reallocation of activities to other markets appears to be very high. this means that a common approach and, at the very least, good cooperation are necessary at international level. a second issue is the cumulative impact of various initiatives which should not undermine the ability of the financial sector to support economic recovery. third, we need to get the analysis right. the commission will soon publish its analysis of various options. i have to say that it is not so simple. we are carrying out an analysis and analysing various instruments. those instruments are related not only to the financial transaction tax but also to possible levies on banks’ assets, on banks’ leverage and so on. we have to make this analysis very thoroughly in order to make proper conclusions as to which options are the best. the commission will compare its findings with those of one of its international partners. on this basis the more promising instruments will be identified which the commission will assess in further detail. i should also say that, in the eu 2020 strategy, ‘taxation’ or ‘taxes’ is mentioned many times, which is in strong contrast with previous strategic documents. i think the commission is paying serious attention to the issues related to developments in the taxation area. to conclude, i would like to stress that the commission promotes and supports a serious global analysis on the potential benefits and disadvantages of different innovative finance instruments, including a financial transaction tax. i would like to thank parliament for its interest and involvement in this topic.
i have received a motion for a resolution1 tabled pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, to wind up the debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 10 march 2010 at 12 noon. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item on the agenda is the oral question to the commission on the single euro payments area (sera). the commission has not received any comments from interested parties.
member of the commission. - mr president, i thank each and every one of the speakers for their contribution. what struck me most, following on from the initial intervention by sharon bowles, was the unanimity that is emerging across the house in supporting, as you had already shown to a large extent in parliament, the establishment of this single area of payments. this is confirmed by the draft resolution. it is a two-year project and i think we must now complete its implementation. i would remind you that i was very impressed by the unanimity which was expressed, again, just now, on the need to set a deadline. i therefore confirm my commitment in this respect to fixing that deadline. give me a few weeks, just to take the time i think it's a useful time to meet all the stakeholders in the banking sector. i will conduct this consultation quickly and at the end of this consultation, on this and other issues concerning the proper implementation of sepa, i will take decisions in a short time, as you requested, madam president. sepa will only be a success if it fully meets the expectations of consumers, of users. i am talking about companies, especially small businesses, consumers, national administrations. the commission wants and will act to ensure that these user concerns are taken into account in the implementation of sepa. i tell mrs băsescu that i will also be attentive to the efforts of the new member states to join fully - and i know that such efforts exist in your country as in others - in the sepa project, it is a matter of the general interest. finally, in the area of maps, which i myself mentioned at my hearing, greater clarity is needed. i need a few weeks, or at most a few months for this consultation, to clarify the intentions of the actors, to see to what extent they are prepared to coordinate or unify their efforts as regards the financing model for a possible pan-european card system. as regards the competitive environment in which it should operate, this is another matter which i must raise with the players in the banking sectors. i thank you, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, for the constructive and vigilant support you have once again given to the sepa project, which also reflects the commitment of the european commission.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 10 march 2010 at 12 noon.
the next item is the report by mr klaus-heiner lehne, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the annual accounts of certain types of companies for micro units (com ((2009) 0083 - c6-0074/2009 - 2009/0035 (cod)) (a7-0011/2010)
mr president, we are in a period of economic crisis and it is clear that the exemption of micro-enterprises from the legal obligation to draw up and publish annual accounts is a welcome measure to support small and mediumsized enterprises, and i certainly agree with the rapporteur on this point. it is true that such action reduces the operating costs of companies, increases their profitability and may contribute positively to the preservation of jobs. however, and i think this is the concern of many colleagues, we must be very careful in the way and the means we use to give immediate and rapid relief to this sensitive economic sector. the aim should be to provide relief and not - and i emphasize this - to provide these companies with an alibi for falsifying or concealing their real economic potential, with all that this implies for their future success. i think that we should therefore welcome and support the commission's proposal in principle, and of course be careful in the arrangements we make in the future so that our real intentions, namely to support these enterprises, are not altered.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 10 march 2010 at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by sophia in 't veld, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on competition policy 2008 (com ((2009) 0374 - 2009/2173 (ini)) (a7-0025/2010)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 9 march 2010, at 12 noon.
i hereby declare the 2009-2010 session of the european parliament closed.
mr president, congratulations and thanks to the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs on the three reports. the fact that there is an agreement makes me optimistic about the course of the internal market. i would like to make two points: the first point concerns the thun report and paragraph 10. i think it is essential, and i think it would have been the best thing that could have happened, if we could have made it clear that workers' rights, social rights and environmental protection are not obstacles to the progress of the internal market. the second point concerns solvit. it is a great mechanism, but it still needs a lot of help. and i have to be honest with you and tell you that i was thinking of pressing my own government in greece to do something about it, because we only have two employees. but when i heard that there was only one trainee in france, i thought i would wait until mr barnier put pressure on his government.
mr president, i should first like to thank mr coelho for the excellent work he has done on this report and say the following: first of all, the schengen acquis is precisely that. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of free movement within the schengen area. the first basic and simple conclusion to be drawn from this debate is that it is very important that this regulation should be brought forward. the student's example is typical; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the right to free movement is guaranteed to all long-term residents. the problem is - and i want to stress this in particular - whether this will facilitate, even indirectly, illegal immigration, whether there will be a security problem or whether, by exercising this right, a person will not be able to have the means to move, which is something that the member states should take into account. it is clear that each member state must always be very careful when issuing visas. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that the processing of data in the schengen information system will now be mandatory before a long-stay visa is issued. so, in the end, we are not only safeguarding the schengen acquis but also strengthening security in relation to this very fact. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, in cooperation with the member states and the services of the member states, we must not only facilitate and strengthen the schengen acquis, but also strengthen security, which is an essential element for each member state, for all of us, for the acquis of this treaty. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
president of the commission. − as regards speculation, let us be clear that the current problems in greece were not caused by speculation. they were mainly caused by overspending and not respecting the european framework in terms of the stability and growth pact, namely the excessive debt, but it may happen afterwards that speculators act against the sovereign debt of that country. this also shows the importance of a fundamental reform in the derivatives market and the relevance of the action already undertaken by the commission. on 20 october 2009, the commission began a programme of action in favour of efficient, solid derivative markets. the legislative proposals that commissioner barnier will present before the summer, and also those concerning the market abuse directive that commissioner barnier will present before the end of the year, will increase market transparency and limit risks. beyond this systemic response, a new ad hoc reflection is needed on credit default swaps regarding sovereign debt, and the problem of ‘naked’ practices needs particular attention in this context. it is not justified to buy insurance and buy unseen interventions on a risk on a purely speculative basis. in the short term, we must achieve the necessary coordination to ensure that member states act in a coordinated fashion, but most particularly for naked practices. in this context, the commission will examine closely the relevance of banning purely speculative naked sales of credit default swaps for sovereign debt. at the same time, we will push for international coordination. because these markets are opaque, we are going to bring this issue to the g20 and we also have to raise some of these issues in our bilateral contacts, particularly with the united states.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i am glad you have anticipated the question i was going to ask. first of all, as a greek mep, let me inform you that greece will succeed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i was very pleased that you mentioned the g20 as a group to which you would bring the issue of swaps. greece, beyond its own mistakes, has been hit hard by market speculation. do you really intend, and i would like you to develop this in some way in the g20 framework, to lead an initiative to establish clear rules on open, uncovered sales and credit default swaps?
president of the commission. − as i said earlier, the basic problem regarding greece – and it is important to say this – comes from excessive debt. it is true that probably there were also speculative attacks, but that is because they saw an opportunity there. now we have to support greece, and greece has now announced very important measures. we fully support those measures. at the same time we have to look to the broader issue. i already said that we will examine closely the relevance of banning purely speculative ‘naked’ sales on credit default swaps on sovereign debt. the question of transparency between regulators – particularly on access to information on these practices – should also be raised in the g20 and in other fora and bilaterally. last friday commissioner barnier organised a meeting in brussels with the national regulators precisely to find out what we know about the action of some of these speculators against sovereign debt. we need to proceed with an in-depth analysis of credit default swaps markets so as to determine better how these markets function and if they are the subject of questionable practices. if needed, the commission will also use its competition powers in that matter.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, is there a timetable in what you are saying for the anti-speculation mechanism? let us know if there is a timetable so that i know when we go out to borrow on the international market, if we will have any support from this mechanism.
member of the commission. − indeed, creating more and better jobs is also included in the europe 2020 strategy. i would like to draw your attention to two more flagship initiatives. i already mentioned the one which focuses on poverty, but concerning the quantity and quality of jobs in europe we have the ‘new skills in jobs’ flagship initiative; and under the sustainability pillar of europe 2020 there is a flagship initiative on industrial policy. i think this is a crucial point in the context of this question, because it has to be recognised that european union instruments should not only target the impact of companies leaving europe, like the globalisation fund. this plays a very important role in preventing poverty, preventing the loss of income and the loss of skills when corporations decide to relocate outside europe; and for the first time now in a very long time there is going to be a flagship initiative on industrial policy for a sustainable economy. i think this will address many of the issues of industrial development and the issue of location. i fully agree with what was implied in the question, that without a comprehensive economic policy and employment policy we cannot successfully fight poverty.
mr president, commissioner, in greece the percentage of the population living below the poverty line is over 20%. of these, 34% are unemployed and 14% are working poor. the problem of poverty described by my colleague in the question on europe and the data i gave you on greece, in my view, is due to the failure of the neoliberal economic model promoted by the lisbon treaty and reintroduced in the text of the strategy for 2020. i would like to ask you: is it possible to tackle the rising poverty rates with piecemeal policies that have elements of philanthropy or is another economic policy needed, one that has primary employment at its centre, which means that you have to look again at the text of the european strategy 2020?
member of the commission. − starting with the second question if you do not mind, it is indeed very important to have a more stable macroeconomic environment. in the previous answer i referred to the importance of a comprehensive economic policy in order to create a more stable environment, and indeed what was mentioned as the ‘neoliberal trend’ of recent decades needs to be reviewed. in europe 2020 we have a number of initiatives, and i would like in particular to mention the chapter on financial regulation. this is a substantial change as compared to the previous regime and comes from the intention to stabilise the macroeconomic environment which would relieve the pressure on the fiscal systems that are meant to support social protection systems and employment policies. concerning the abuse and the effectiveness of the social protection systems, indeed the crisis is a test in this respect. what the commission can do is to use the open method of coordination and the analytical and reporting capacity available to it to help member states to better focus the social protection measures. the challenge in crisis times, which was mentioned in the question, but also in the coming period, when various member sates will face the need for fiscal consolidation will really be a test, and we cannot easily find more resources for fighting poverty. that is why we need to share experiences about how to use our instruments more effectively and how to target the vulnerable groups better.
member of the commission. - the mr president, as mr papanicolaou has said, the aim of the culture programme is to enrich the cultural experience of european citizens by promoting our common cultural heritage. the commission shall promote cultural cooperation between creators, cultural operators and institutions in the countries participating in the programme with a view to encouraging the development of european citizenship. the culture programme aims in particular to promote the transnational mobility of cultural operators, to encourage the transnational circulation of artists and cultural works and products and to support intercultural dialogue. as an illustration, in 2009, 749 applications were submitted under the culture programme and 256 projects were selected for funding, of which 127 were mainly aimed at the mobility of cultural operators. the legal basis requires regular external and independent evaluation of the programme. in july 2009, the commission invited an independent contractor to assess the first three years of implementation of the culture 2007-2009 programme and, in particular, the programme's relevance to objectives, first results and initial impact. the evaluation shall be carried out by the contractor on the basis of data on the results of projects, recent individual evaluations, surveys and interviews with project beneficiaries and cultural operators concerned. the final report will be submitted in the second half of this year. on this basis, the commission will draw up a report on the implementation of the programme and submit it to the european parliament by 31 december 2010 at the latest. please note that the programme is not primarily aimed at national authorities but at cultural bodies. the participation of cultural operators in projects is relatively evenly distributed across the member states. the national authorities participate in expert groups at european level to shape the policy development of the programme. following two rounds of pilot projects on artist mobility launched by the european parliament for 2008 and 2009, and taking into account the discussions already under way under the open method of coordination, the commission is at this stage assessing the progress made so far and looking at ways of improving the implementation of the current programme. later this year, the commission will launch a public consultation to prepare the ground for the new culture programme for 2014 and beyond.
commissioner, thank you very much for your reply. i think this is the first time you've been with us on this process. i wish you success in your work and good fortune. it is crucial to make european citizens aware of the cultural elements which are important for europe and which are the reference points of european culture and our common values. i think that this point has been particularly important in recent times for greece too - and let me take this discussion a little further - given the use of cultural monuments for reasons unrelated to culture, in order to ridicule my country. i refer to the german magazine focus's publication of the forgery of the venus of milos, i refer to the online publications that present the acropolis as a ruin. i am afraid that this practice is no longer an exception, and i ask you, commissioner, whether you condemn this practice and whether, in the context of the programme we are discussing, and not only, the commission is planning to adopt a more decisive, more aggressive, let me say, policy for the promotion of culture ... (the president cut off the speaker)
the commissioner, the matter we are discussing and which the honourable member has raised with his question is very serious. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the road is not compromised. so i want to ask you two specific things: first, because most of these collisions happen in cities and most of the victims are pedestrians and cyclists, what initiatives do you see that need to be developed so that we can go to the logic of what we call "vision zero", that is, to have no victims in cities, to pay particular attention to schools, bike lanes, etc.? and the second question is, what are you going to do to ensure that justice is done for the victims and their relatives in a reasonable way, so that in a reasonable way we can also prevent accidents?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the answer lies in strengthening the enforcement of intellectual property rights at the global level. the aim is to have as many trade partners as possible in the multilateral agreement under discussion. the agreement under negotiation must be fully in line with the relevant acquis, respect fundamental freedoms and the protection of personal data, ensure the free flow of information and not unduly burden legitimate commercial transactions. finally, parliament should have full and substantive information at its disposal at all stages of the negotiation, while respecting reasonable confidentiality.
in writing. – i hope that the written declaration on acta that i submitted two weeks ago together with my colleagues castex, alvaro and roithová and today’s debate will serve as a belated wake-up call to the council and the commission. this parliament will not sit back silently while the fundamental rights of millions of citizens are being negotiated away behind closed doors. we oppose any ‘legislation laundering’ on an international level of what would be very difficult to get through most national legislatures – let alone the european parliament. here, of course, i refer to the infamous ‘three strikes’ laws. this parliament firmly believes that intellectual property rights must be protected, but not by giving private companies sweeping rights to monitor indiscriminately every citizen’s activities on the internet – something that we refuse to allow even our police to do when fighting terrorism – and certainly not through the disproportionate penalty of cutting whole households off from the internet. access to the internet is itself a fundamental right. it must be treated and protected as such.
the treatment resulting from the system of generalised preferences, as an exception to the wto's most favoured nation principle, must be targeted, that is to say, targeted at the developing countries which are most in need. the new list of beneficiary countries should reflect the real economic situation and competitiveness of developing countries. the lack of differentiation between developing countries ultimately works to the detriment of the least developed countries. the proposal for revision should be preceded by an assessment of the impact of the system on the beneficiary countries during the previous period of application. trade policy, in particular trade selectivity, can undoubtedly contribute to more effective global governance through the exercise of soft power. it can contribute by providing incentives to promote the social dimension of globalisation in a broad sense: decent work, sustainable development, democratic accountability. the european parliament should be able to play a constructive role in the new revised system and to monitor effectively the implementation of the conventions by the beneficiary countries.
mr president, mr albertini's report is indeed excellent; it is a very good report. i congratulate him on that! he's a serious man and he'll always make serious reports. equally important and outstanding is lady ashton's presentation. i think that a lot of foreign policy issues are covered, but apart from all the issues that the two reports deal with in terms of a real exercise of foreign and security policy, i think they are inextricably linked to two things: firstly, the clear definition of the borders of the european union in such a way that the european union is treated with equal respect and, secondly, resources, i.e. money. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, that the new order has brought about a new world economic disorder. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore want lady ashton to coordinate the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on foreign affairs to ask for the resources to support the policy she will be pursuing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the socialists and democrats believe in a european union with a strong role on the international stage. a union with a common foreign policy that can speak with one voice in an increasingly complex world. a union with a distinct defence identity, which gives it autonomy of choice and action and a special role in the international arena. i would like to mention in particular the very good report by mr danjean, whom i would like to thank for his productive cooperation. i would mention four points: firstly, it is important to mention the central role of the un system and its call for strengthening multilateral cooperation, especially after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. secondly, we support close cooperation with nato. we stress, however, that this cooperation should not impede the autonomous development of the european union's defence capabilities. on the contrary, it should take full account of the different nature of the two agencies and not prejudice their independence, in particular as regards decision-making. thirdly, i think it is necessary to include a paragraph on the need for closer cooperation with russia, a country which is a strategic partner for the union in areas such as energy security, crisis management and others. in conclusion, i should like to express my satisfaction that the report now includes references to the need for more general disarmament, with emphasis on small arms, antipersonnel mines and cluster munitions. but at the same time i think that the european parliament should take a clearer position and ask the member states to give their practical support to the obama initiative for a world without nuclear weapons. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the development of nuclear energy, and it is hoped that the commission will be able to take part in the discussions on the subject.
mr president, it is clear from the council's conclusions and from the debate that followed in our parliament in brussels, as well as from the positions of the commissioner responsible and several heads of state, that in times of crisis, when some member states are facing serious economic problems, it is necessary, also within the framework of the existing monetary union, for european solidarity to be shown, and for policies to be drawn up to ensure that speculative attacks against certain member states are counteracted. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very important one. we expect a great deal from the council in the future and we expect that the problems in this critical period will be dealt with effectively.
mr president, i voted against the report because the european union 2020 strategy is following the same failed neoliberal path as the lisbon strategy, which has led to the widening of regional and social inequalities, the increase in poverty and unemployment and has been a major cause of the crisis in the european union. the economic and social policy framework must therefore be radically changed to focus on full employment and the strengthening of social rights. the european union leaders in the informal council, when the crisis broke out, hid away, leaving each state to deal with the problems on its own, and now they are coming to monitor budget deficits. they have treated greece as the black sheep and are seeking to take tough measures to the detriment of the workers of greece and other countries. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia, and we are therefore calling for the immediate withdrawal of the troops from the country.
mr. president, thank you for your patience. i voted against the report because it repeats the dangerous directives given by the treaty of lisbon on the european defence and security strategy. it is calling for the militarization of the european union, it is legitimizing military interventions, it is recognizing nato's primacy and its close relationship with it, and it is even pushing for an increase in military spending, especially in times of crisis and great social needs. in my view, the european union must, more than ever, at a time when the architecture of the world is being judged, pursue a peace-loving policy and a different political conception of security, pursue an independent foreign and defence policy, freed from the united states, seek to settle international disputes by political means and take the lead in respecting international law and the enhanced role of the united nations. i think that this policy is the best way of expressing the european citizen.
in writing. i voted in favour of the lehne report, as it gives member states the discretion to take account of the different effects that the implementation of the directive may have within their own member states, in particular as regards the number of undertakings covered by it. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be allowed to apply the principle of subsidiarity to the activities of micro-organisms. in addition, the publication of annual accounts ensures transparency and is a necessary condition for access to the financial market, public procurement and inter-company relations for micro-enterprises.
in writing. i voted against the second part of paragraph 6 of the joint resolution on the ee 2020 strategy, as it suggests a proposal to further weaken the traditionally structured european welfare state. the eu should make its social union more visible by countering the competitive pressure in the international economic arena from forces that have either made a visible deforestation of social benefits and structures or are engaged in social dumping. it seems that social and employment policy is selectively and flexibly adapted to market dynamics. the integration strategy tends to claim institutional completeness in relation to market forces, but it is imperfect in the political regulation of effects and phenomena of disintegration (e.g. unemployment, regional inequalities, lack of social cohesion). the signs of the times call more than ever for a more social europe.
in writing. the joint resolution of the social democratic and liberal people's party on the eu strategy "europe 2020" expresses the common decision of the political staff of capital to implement by all means the savage attack and anti-people plans of the monopolies against the working class, the workers throughout the eu. the europe 2020 strategy continues and deepens the anti-people "lisbon strategy", defining the strategic objectives and plans of monopoly capital, as it puts in the cradle of progress fundamental wage and social rights of workers, and in particular: generalized application of the notorious "well-being" in combination with "lifelong learning", "training and retraining" and "mobility" of workers, abolition of the s.s. of labour, rotation of work, drastic reduction of wages and pensions, increase of the retirement age and in general sweeping changes in social security, health, welfare, education. it also provides capital with plenty of money from the state funds in the form of subsidies and incentives in the name of "green growth". the committee also welcomes the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the commission.
in writing. the european parliament's report on the eu's common foreign and security policy, together with the corresponding report on the european security and defence policy, produced by the anti-people coalition of conservatives, social democrats and liberals in the european parliament, reflects the firm support of political expressions of capital for the promotion of even greater militarisation of the eu, especially after the entry into force of the reactionary lisbon treaty, as well as their active role in promoting the eu's imperialist policy, interventions and wars waged against third countries and peoples in every country on the planet, to serve the interests of the imperialist domination and the conditions of monopoly competition, in conditions of capitalist domination. the report calls for: (a) the effective organisation of the eu's european external action service (established by the treaty of lisbon), this new political-military arm for organising, supporting and executing the eu's imperialist interventions; · (b) an increase in expenditure from the eu budget for its military and political interventions; (c) a better integration of the eu's political and military capabilities, with the key point being the strengthening of the eu-nato interface, in order to carry out its imperialist interventions by military means more effectively. the committee of the regions condemns this unacceptable report, which can only be described as a manual of imperialist attacks on peoples.
in writing. the european parliament's report on the eu's csdp is a call for a generalised war by the eu's imperialist centre against the people. it marks a new intensification of competition with the other centres of imperialism. the report: it welcomes the 70,000 members of the eu's 23 military and civilian missions around the world, in most cases in cooperation with the us and nato. it welcomes the imperialist naval surveillance of somalia by eu naval forces. the european parliament calls on the eu to set up a 'state mechanism', a coastguard and a regular army for sudan abroad, but not to overthrow the government of the country. supports the 'establishment of a civilian-military crisis management and planning directorate' and the 'creation of a permanent union operations centre'. calls for an intensification of state terrorism and the strangulation of democratic rights in the name of 'combating terrorism' and 'radicalisation' it promotes the rapid organisation of the european external action service with politico-military responsibilities. the european union is also calling for the establishment of a european union-wide military and political intervention force, in the framework of the so-called mutual assistance provided for in the 'solidarity clause' of the lisbon treaty. the only interest of the peoples is to break with the whole of the imperialist and anti-people policy and the very structure of the eu.
in writing. i consider it of the utmost priority and importance to strengthen efforts against the proliferation of nuclear weapons, towards a world free of nuclear weapons. this includes strengthening the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons (npt) through its signature and implementation by all member states. i have chosen to abstain on this resolution because it contains a key point which i am opposed to and which the left group has tried, unsuccessfully, to change. i refer to the wording and substance of the view that the eu can 'use all the means at its disposal to prevent, deter, halt and, if possible, eliminate dissemination programmes', which creates serious problems. in particular, the use or threat of use of war and military means, especially with regard to iran, is not only extremely dangerous, will not have positive effects on peace, but also runs counter to the left's view of the eu's military actions and actions.
welcome, high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. the arctic is the part of the planet where climate change is most pronounced. global warming has led to a significant retreat of the ice. a milestone year was 2007, when ice declined by 34% compared to the 1970-2000 period. but the melting of the arctic ice has many, many dramatic consequences. it leads to accelerated climate change. until now, the white surface of the arctic ice has reflected 80 percent of the sunlight that falls on the region, affecting global and local temperatures. this reflection is steadily decreasing as the temperature of the planet and the wider polar region increases over a 1,500-meter zone within canada, russia, and alaska. in fact, in 2007, between august and october, there was a 2°c increase in temperature. at the same time, melting ice is causing unpredictable changes in ocean currents. it negatively affects marine ecosystems, fisheries, and reduces the ability of the sea to absorb carbon dioxide, as it affects plankton and other organisms, and raises sea levels. for this reason, mr high representative, european citizens are saddened by the european union's often discussed participation in the escalating competition for geopolitical benefits from this environmental disaster in the arctic. the role of the european union should not be to win an international geopolitical contest over oil and arctic shipping lanes. our role should be to ensure that our principles are respected, that the environmental integrity of the region is respected, that principles such as international cooperation prevail, that the un institutions are respected in any new regime that emerges in the arctic from this enormous environmental disaster.
acting president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the strengthening of cooperation with third countries, countries of origin and transit of migration, is a key element for the european union in the fight against illegal immigration. that has been one of the great changes, developments and advances that have come about as a result of what has come to be called the global approach to immigration and the european pact on immigration and asylum. cooperation with countries of origin of migration is one of the most important elements of the new immigration policy. before 2004, there was practically no immigration policy in the european union. this is part of the european pact on immigration and asylum, as i said, and in this connection, in the conclusions of december last year on enlargement, the council welcomed the start of the enhanced dialogue on migration with turkey and called for concrete measures to be taken, for example readmission, border controls, etc. the stockholm programme has reaffirmed this need for action against illegal immigration and it is clear from that stockholm programme, as well as from the council conclusions of december 2009, that efforts should be made to conclude readmission agreements with turkey as soon as possible, and in the meantime to apply existing bilateral agreements. the last round of negotiations - i can tell you - on this readmission agreement took place on 19 february, that is, last month, in ankara, and the council will continue to support the commission in its efforts to achieve the most favourable possible conclusion to these negotiations. i should also mention the collaboration, the cooperation between frontex and turkey. regulation (ec) no 2007/2004 facilitates such operational cooperation between member states and third countries, and it should also be noted that negotiations are also under way for an agreement such as the one mentioned in that regulation between frontex and turkey. we are facing operational work that exchanges information, that analyses risk, that is investigative work, that is coordinated joint operations of frontex. that is the framework in which the operational cooperation between the agency and the turkish authorities is developing at the moment. we hope that these negotiations will be concluded as soon as possible in a fruitful manner and that the member states will be kept informed of any developments in the future.
thank you very much for your answer. i would like to continue with two further comments. the first is that today or tomorrow, alongside the debate we are having today, the greek parliament will vote on a legislative initiative by the greek government which makes it more flexible and easier to acquire greek citizenship than in the past. and of course, this makes greece even more of a magnet for immigrants, because they believe, especially the illegal ones, that at some point, in the future, of course, they will be able to become legal. i would like to ask the presidency, from a strategic point of view, whether this is right. and secondly, it was announced in february that frontex would set up its first branch in piraeus to strengthen its presence in the aegean. is there a more specific timetable for this?
acting president of the council. - mr president, i cannot tell you at this moment exactly what the timetable will be for these negotiations which are taking place. the truth is that there is the political will to do so. this fact that you mention, in relation to greece, shows the need and the opportunity for the fight against illegal immigration to be strengthened by these readmission agreements. we must support these talks, these negotiations, which are basically being conducted by the commission. i should remind you that before the end of last year, minister billström visited turkey on behalf of the swedish presidency and mr barrot, vice-president of the commission, on 5 november 2009. that was followed by contacts from the commission. as regards the new commission, in this case mrs malmström, who is very familiar with the stockholm programme because she was involved in its implementation and preparation, i am optimistic that the information you refer to can be offset by much stronger regulation of readmission agreements, genuine readmission agreements with turkey, for which i cannot give you a specific timetable at the moment, but i can convey to you the firm will of the presidency of the council of the union, and also of the commission, to achieve these readmission agreements with turkey. and not just with turkey, but also with other countries which are sometimes countries of origin or transit of illegal migration. i should also like to say that the frontex agreements, in this case with turkey, are conducted directly by frontex; they are, in many cases, technical and operational talks and, although the council as an institution is not involved in these negotiations, it is informed, and, of course, the council will inform the other member states, including greece, of course.
mr president, i would like to ask you to take this opportunity to thank the commissioner for his reply and to thank him for his work. i would therefore like to know whether the basis of these discussions between turkey and frontex is respect for the greek-turkish border, that is to say, recognition and respect for the external borders of the eu. i would remind you that the turkish harassment of frontex aircraft has been based on this question. i would also like to know whether turkey is making any other conditions in order to agree to frontex.
acting president of the council. - madam president, i am naturally convinced that the objective referred to by mr rübig will be included in the danube region strategy, the dimensions of which i have already spoken about. the objectives of this strategy are really important, they concern a huge number of issues that affect the lives of the people who live mainly in that area, their daily lives, and therefore they have to do with the economy, they have to do with the cultural dimensions, they have to do with the protection of the environment and natural resources, among which is, of course, water. as has been said, this natural environment is intrinsically linked to this region, and this will be clearly included - i am convinced - in this strategy, which should be led, essentially, by those countries which promote it, such as those i have just mentioned, and which met a few days ago in budapest to make progress in defining objectives and in a more precise implementation of this strategy, which is not yet sufficiently defined. that is why i think it is premature to speak - i refer to the speech by the honourable member who spoke later - of the criteria for the selection of projects or the eligibility of projects, but i imagine that they will depend on how close they are to the objectives, some of which i have mentioned. other issues could also be added, such as navigation, energy security, rural development, demography, the fight against climate change, the effects of changes in economic markets and, in general, all those areas for which such a strategy and its implementation can undoubtedly bring about improvement. i believe that we must all work together in the european union, because we are dealing with something of a european dimension, which affects the whole of the european union and its essential policies, which i am convinced will be the subject of attention, for example cohesion policy, not just social cohesion but a novelty which includes the treaty of lisbon, such as territorial cohesion. this is a form of cohesion, a dimension of cohesion which appears in the lisbon treaty and which fits very well with this initiative on the danube region strategy.
acting president of the council. - madam president, the presidency shares the view of the honourable member on the objective of providing a high level of social protection - particularly as regards groups threatened by poverty and social exclusion - which is one of the cornerstones of the european social model. and especially at a time when we are in a period of economic recession. unemployment: it is now estimated that there may be over five million more unemployed than at the start of the economic crisis. this has led to a fall in the income of many households, many are exposed to poverty and excessive indebtedness, and unemployment rates are likely to remain high for some time to come, and this long-term unemployment is therefore likely to have an effect of social exclusion. the social consequences of the economic crisis will therefore be high on the european political agenda in the coming months, certainly on the european agenda of the presidency-triad without any doubt. we have an instrument, a tool in this regard, such as the declaration of 2010 as the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion, which has four specific objectives: the recognition of the right of individuals to their dignity and to play an active role in society; a commitment of public opinion to policies of social inclusion; a more cohesive society; and, of course, a long-term effort by all levels of government to combat poverty and social exclusion, and especially - and i refer back to a concept i used in a previous question - to protect the most vulnerable, who end up being the most doubly affected by poverty or social exclusion. it is the case of children, it is the case of women, it is the case of the elderly as well. so we will certainly support the various initiatives that may be taken in relation to poverty and social exclusion and the fight against them, and i should point out that this is precisely what will become, i hope, a central objective of the whole strategy of growth and job creation in the european union. one of the quantified objectives of the document presented by the european commission on 3 march is precisely the objective of reducing by 20 million the number of people at risk of falling into poverty.
mr. secretary, thank you for your answer. however, given that unemployment, as you said, reached 10% in 2009, that 45% of europe's unemployed have been out of the labour market for more than a year and that there is an uncontrolled expansion of flexible forms of employment in the absence of a clear institutional framework, resulting in 19 million poor unemployed, we would like to know - because you are specific so far and i am pleased about it - what specific immediate measures, active and passive employment policies are you going to adopt at european level in order to effectively address the issue of the working poor and the unemployed, especially the long-term unemployed, because they will still face a problem of survival; the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas:
acting president of the council. - as regards the intervention on nuclear safety, i have to say that responsibility, which in this area is national, is laid down in the international conventions of the iaea, that is to say in the convention on nuclear safety to which belarus, russia, euratom and most of the member states of the european union are parties. the council considers that the contracting parties in the vicinity of a proposed nuclear installation should be consulted, as they may be affected by it. the euratom-russia agreement on the peaceful uses of nuclear energy which is now being concluded will therefore have to contain provisions on verifiable requirements in the field of nuclear safety and the protection of the health and safety of workers. i would also like to remind you that this issue is regularly discussed in the framework of the eu-russia energy dialogue. as regards the assessment of environmental impact in an international context, the council notes that belarus is a party to the espoo convention on environmental impact assessment in a cross-border context, which contains binding obligations aimed at assessing environmental impact and potential environmental risks. but in this case, what the council is saying is that the responsibility for organising the environmental assessment lies largely with the project promoters. the russian federation is not a contracting party to that convention. we would like russia to be able to apply the espoo convention on a voluntary basis. it has also been doing so for some time in relation to existing nuclear power stations. finally, with regard to the question raised by the honourable member on human rights in relation to russia, there has been a debate earlier in which human rights issues have been raised, and i believe that the criteria on the defence of human rights or the denunciation of human rights violations apply wherever they may occur. the european union is not a party to the schengen agreement, but it is a party to the schengen agreement, and it is not a party to the schengen agreement. a general visa negotiation is under way. i think that in the context of this general visa negotiation, it is possible to think of other specific ways of facilitating visas, but, as i said, we are currently in a very broad visa negotiation with russia, and i think that is what we should concentrate on: this organization of visas in general terms. because it is what can really produce the best effects in terms of the free movement of people and, i would even say, give the best chance to europeans and to europe so that its values are also lived, shared by other citizens and in places outside the european union.
the next item is the oral questions to the council and the commission on investment in low-carbon technologies. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu.
acting president of the council. - madam president, i have noted this morning's sitting and i am pleased to note that the council shares many of parliament's concerns. i am confident that the conclusions we shall adopt tomorrow will provide a solid basis for responding to the concerns expressed today and for moving forward immediately with the launching of industrial initiatives. these are initiatives on which i think there is a clear consensus that they are fundamental to reducing our energy dependence, to improving our efficiency, to be able to continue to move forward on the technological path, to give a new technological impetus to the european union and, of course, to face the challenges of climate change. these initiatives are also necessary to maintain european competitiveness and to create jobs. i think mr helmer can rest assured that there are other studies besides the one he has read - some from the commission itself - which show the positive effect on employment, which will be even greater in the long term. we therefore propose that a set of common principles and practices be applied to guide existing industrial initiatives. this will undoubtedly include the definition of financial instruments and criteria for public intervention to support the development of these technologies. the financial aspects have been the subject of much emphasis and there is a shared concern with the council as well. however, the council cannot commit itself to reallocating funds without respecting the commission's right of initiative and the powers shared in this area with parliament itself. in the meantime, therefore, the current funding will have to be applied. however, we must insist on the need to increase the budgets for the development of these technologies, and that their prioritisation and this last aspect must be a fundamental element in future discussions within the european institutions, and in particular within this parliament itself. rest assured that the council has done and will do everything possible to ensure that the initiatives of the eete plan are well funded, both in the context of the current financial framework and in the next ones. i also want to remind you - as the commission has done - that, in general, private initiatives - private sources of funding - also have an important role to play and this is an area where we need to work together to maximise the impact of public sources of funding. so that there is a major multiplier effect that can successfully launch these initiatives that are so important for our european future.
member of the commission. − madam president, first of all i would like to thank you for this discussion. i followed it very closely and there are many things which we will certainly take into consideration when developing our future work. let me start with a short story. after the 1970s oil crisis we saw enthusiasm for innovation adding a competitive edge, even respecting the environment, on an unprecedented scale, but this was short lived. after oil prices had fallen consistently for long enough, investment in r&d and deployment was dropped, market case for new technologies removed, shifting consumption patterns, and we were pushed into a period of tricky comfort where we depended on cheap foreign energy. it was a period with the illusion of sustainability. by the way, energy r&d investment immediately after the oil crisis was approximately four times higher than currently or some years ago. and where are we today, after that period of reluctant and irresponsible development lacking a proactive approach? reacting to climate change threats and trying to solve energy security dependence, so i do believe that a proactive vision is a realistic and necessary approach and not a daydream. in this context – the things underlined in the paper we adopted a few days ago: the european union 2020 strategy – we see no alternative to green growth. we need more clean industries, not more cleaning-up industries. we need incentives, prices, costs and the right signals. we need to focus on energy efficiency; we need to focus, if you like, on resource efficiency, which is one of the major things included in eu 2020. i shall turn now to the second issue, which is the set plan that we are discussing. all the estimates presented in the set plan for the financing required are based on technology road maps. this was a very serious piece of work. if you look at the proposals, what we envisage, how we estimate the financing needed for the future, you will find the following figures: wind: 6; solar: 16; bio: 19; ccs: 13; nuclear: 7; smart grids: 2; fuel cells and hydrogen: 5; smart cities: 11; european energy research alliance: 5, and basic research: 1. if you add that up, it comes to 75. i would remind you that there is a figure of 7 for nuclear. i have to be fair. fusion is not included, and fusion is, again, a serious figure which should come, but if we look at this picture i think that our message from the commission side on where we should put the bulk of our investment is pretty clear. the next issue is the sources of finance and the road maps. the main sources, as i said in my introduction, will have to come from where the main sources are, and that is industry and the member states. this means the european union budget, current and future financial perspectives, the european energy programme for recovery, the european union emissions trading scheme and, of course, use of the other instruments that exist, and the european investment bank especially should be considered in this respect. there is a serious question of the structure of the investment for the various initiatives proposed. i think it is obvious that the internal structure of public and private investment will not be the same because of the market proximity, because of the market failures you face in various types of technologies, which would need to be addressed, but i do believe that what is in front of you is a serious case, especially when you start discussing the next financial perspective, and that we have to rethink what our priorities are and how we should invest in the future. the next thing i would like to mention is that we will start all but one initiative – the smart cities, which came later, on your initiative, and which talks predominantly about resource efficiency – during 2010, but do not think that the things we are talking about here are not ongoing already: they are, especially in research. the research alliance has been working for a few years on this item already. the last thing i would like to mention is that, with the set plan, we are actually starting something very specific at european union level. you know that, during my previous mandate, i fought very hard for a european research area. at european level we deal with approximately five per cent of research money, so unless we join our forces at eu level – meaning europe level – and avoid duplicating our efforts, we cannot count on real success. do not look only to the european budget. we should put the money together to step up our research capacity. the set plan is the best example we currently have of joint programming at eu level. other activities are also coming, and rightly so, but i think we should not underestimate what is happening here. here we are talking about public-public-private partnerships, which are very necessary and one of the issues to which i would draw your attention for the future. there is also the financial regulation where you will discuss it. it has to allow risk-taking if we seriously want these questions to be addressed. i think we are behind one of the major new developments in europe when we talk about the set plan, about joint programming, which is behind this. we have here the european energy research alliance – the best research organisations opened outward – which is already working together today on all these major issues. my final message is that i think it is our major duty to put our political weight behind this programme.
i have received two motions for resolutions11 pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure, to wind up the debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 11 march, at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the commission on the consequences of hurricane xynthia in europe.
mr president, the recent devastating earthquake in chile, which was of such magnitude and intensity, a short time after the disaster in haiti, claimed the lives of hundreds of our fellow citizens and caused considerable damage to the country's infrastructure, particularly in the concepción region. we must stand with and we stand with the victims and their families; we are expressing our solidarity with the people of the united states. we must stand by a country with which we have close friendly ties and which is one of the strongest economies in the region, a model of development for neighbouring countries. we have also seen this in the joint interparliamentary committee. i would remind you that the european union and chile have signed an association agreement which entered into force in 2005 and which provides for political and economic cooperation and joint action on a global scale. the european commission has also adopted a strategic development plan for chile, as mentioned above, covering the six-year period from 2007 to 2013, which provides for the possibility of absorbing community funds from the latin american country for regional and thematic programmes undertaken by the newly elected government. the immediate announcement of financial support and all the other things that have been mentioned today by our commission are encouraging. i would like to stress, however, that both in order to deal swiftly with the consequences of this recent earthquake on the country's infrastructure and for the country's further development, we must facilitate as much as possible the release of the resources provided for in the above-mentioned european union-chile strategic framework.
in writing. the european parliament (ep) resolution on the pretext of the death by hunger strike of cuban criminal convict orlando zapata tamayo despite the efforts of cuban health services to reverse his health condition constitutes a provocative, unacceptable attack against the socialist government and people of cuba and is part of the anti-communist campaign led by the eu and spearheaded by the ep, aimed at overthrowing socialist power. we denounce the hypocrisy and the provocative attempt to exploit this fact by the centre-right, centre-left and green representatives of capital in the ep. the kke condemns and votes against the resolution of the european parliament. it calls on the peoples to express their solidarity with the government and people of cuba. the european union is also calling for the abolition of the eu's common position against cuba. to condemn the eu's attempt to use human rights as a pretext for imperialist pressure and blackmail on the cuban people and government. to demand the immediate lifting of the us criminal embargo against cuba. the immediate release of the five cuban patriots from us prisons. they're defending socialist cuba.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, my home country, greece, has much in common with california. we have a very nice climate, our asset is our land, our forests have been burned as well as the forests in california, they have had olympic games as we have done; we ended up having the same problems as california. i wonder, if california had a credit problem, would it be left by the u.s. central government to speculate... (the president cut off the speaker by a member's comment.) ) it is the economy yes, it is. i realize that. that's why i said what i said before. ...or would her problem be solved by the u.s. central government? do we have a central government in the european union or not? is it certain that greece, which represents 2% of the european economy, has created such a big problem for the euro? has it undermined the cohesion of the euro and threatened the unity of the union? it is clear that we are facing a crash test of the resilience of the euro currency, but above all of the european union's leaders' willingness to defend it. if we look back, let us see what we have achieved (30 years ago i was a young employee of the ministry of labour and was training here in brussels for the single european market)! we have achieved the single european market. we have achieved the euro. i don't think we've achieved anything in common. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, statements by officials and press reports in recent days have suggested that the most likely scenario for the 'rescue' of the greek economy is a partnership between the european union and the international monetary fund. it is possible that mrs merkel is pushing things in that direction. i would like to say to you that this is the worst, the most antisocial scenario for both greece and the eurozone. for the european union, such a possibility violates community law - and i say this for those who defend it against others - since no treaty, no legal text refers to such intervention by the international monetary fund or any other international organization in these procedures. at the same time, it is setting a political and legal precedent by tightening the stability pact and bringing the united states through the window into the eurozone. as far as greece is concerned, such a choice would only intensify to the utmost the anti-worker and anti-social measures taken by the government - you call them courageous - which have increased poverty, increased unemployment, cut off all prospects for growth, cut off all hope of greece getting out of the crisis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
madam president, the european union's europe 2020 strategy, which is being discussed at the summit, in continuation of the lisbon strategy, proves that the anti-people measures that the pasok government is promoting in our country with the substantial agreement of all the political forces of capital and the parties on the euro route are not a greek peculiarity. they are pre-determined by the political staffs and governments of the member states of the european union. they are part of the overall strategic planning of the capital and are promoted in a uniform way throughout the european union with an intensity of ideological terror to manipulate the popular workers' movement. the lies, the demagogic statements by representatives of bourgeois governments, the forces of the euro-path, that the european union and emu will be a shield against crises, the fairy tales about the european market of 480 million, the great european family, community solidarity and other such ideologies are all going bankrupt. the european union is an imperialist interstate union of capital and monopolies, which, with a unified strategy, attack the peoples and cross their knives to share the spoils. the economic and political problems in greece, in the member states of the european union, will be solved by the struggle of the working people's movement, the struggle and solidarity of the peoples. it is obvious that what is happening in greece is directly related to the intense confrontation between the imperialist states and between the european union, the usa, china and other developed countries. thus, in front of and against the strategy of capital, the working class and the popular strata must oppose their own strategic struggle to overthrow this anti-people policy in order to satisfy the modern needs of the working people's family.
madam president, the european council meeting of 11 february, which was to send a message of support to greece to calm the markets, has in fact been cancelled because of the discord and uncertainty that prevailed within the european union. the european council, which starts its work tomorrow, cannot afford to maintain the current climate of uncertainty and discord. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but at the same time it continues to borrow at extremely high interest rates, with the latest example being the one on march 5th, because there are speculators in the markets who make fortunes betting on the probability of a country's bankruptcy and ultimately creating the conditions and conditions for that to happen. today the debate is about greece, tomorrow it may be about another member state. will the european council put a stop to this by creating an effective european deterrent mechanism to shield national economies and the stability of the euro area? the president of the european commission spoke of responsibility and solidarity. and he was right. it takes both when you are part of a family, like the eurozone. but i do not think there is anyone who doubts that greece has fully assumed its responsibilities. but she cannot face the market beasts alone in this difficult phase. a year and a half ago, markets threatened to collapse the world economy. will greece not be threatened today? so here comes the concept of solidarity, which should be self-evident and inherent in participating in the euro.
it is true, madam president, that my country, greece, has not developed its economy in a timely and prudent manner. but now she's fully assumed her responsibilities. the greek people are paying an unbearable price. but let's not hide! greece is not the only emu country facing major problems. she wasn't the only one to turn to the venomous services of well-known financial institutions. it is not and will not remain the only target of speculators. we all know - and we know very well - that the greek question is also a european question. the emu will be crippled without more coordination of economic and fiscal policy and, above all, without solidarity. crisis, every crisis, is the mother of change. the present crisis can give birth to a stronger europe, and greece can be the midwife of that change. so let's not shoot at greece! let us all shoot the speculators who would like to see a knee-jerk euro, and that is what the european council of tomorrow must do.
in writing. the deep fiscal crisis in greece, as well as the fiscal imbalances in other euro area member states, raise the question of the static-dynamic-resilience of the emu construction itself. there is no doubt that the consolidation of the public finances of a euro-area member state carries the same burden. however, the financial crisis has brought to light the mismatch between the eu's full and single monetary union and its incomplete economic union. it stressed the need for a politically oriented european economic governance, for the europeanisation of economic policy and economic risk, for covering the structural deficits of emu, for more europe, for coordinated and solidarity-based european action. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european social fund is a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the single currency is not used for speculative purposes. the operation of the credit default swap market also needs to be examined in depth. the european council is called upon to give a substantive response to the eurozone crisis, to express practical solidarity with greece in overcoming the budgetary crisis. greece does not ask. it demands that the deficit of the greek people not be used to the advantage of international speculators.
mr president, we have often spoken of the need to increase the participation of european citizens, the need to get closer to the institutions of the union, to the citizens of all the member states. we have also discussed this very intensely in the last european elections, when we saw that in many member states the turnout was particularly low. since then, an extraordinary and important event has taken place, which is changing the very structure and functioning of the union. i am referring, of course, to the treaty of lisbon, an important treaty, which puts the citizen at the centre, and whose main pillar is how we can all, parliament, the commission and the council, get closer to the citizen. the specialisation of this principle is the citizens' initiative, article 11 (4). it is a great regulation, which is excellent, it promotes democracy, it promotes political equality, it promotes transparency. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and here comes the reflection. the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity, and it is not the commission's intention to make the necessary changes to the treaty, but rather to make it more effective. i conclude by saying this: we all have a responsibility to promote this initiative. we all have a responsibility to explain to our fellow citizens the right they now have, to make them understand that they can themselves initiate procedures at the level of the union's institutions from the outset, without any other intermediary. and above all, our message must be clear, through a process that is simple, understandable, clear and, if nothing else, operational for everyone, operational for the citizens, operational for parliament, for the institutions of the union, for the member states, for all the actors involved in the process.
madam president, i should like to point out that recent reports indicate that american prosecutors have brought charges against the german company daimler for bribing foreign officials in order to collect and sign government contracts. the indictment says the company is involved in a long-running bribery scheme. the same issue had arisen with siemens, which followed the same practice and bribed the governments of thirty countries in order to supply public enterprises, a scandal that still shocks greece. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the german government has not until recently pursued bribery beyond its borders; he pretended not to know the facts. finally, the european commission, instead of acting, instead of activating the commission against fraud, does not defend legality and in many cases does not protect the money of european citizens.
madam president, i have to report to the european parliament that today at 2.15 a.m. the turkish corvette bufra violated greek territorial waters, reaching only 18 miles from the coast of athens, and even asked to dock on another greek merchant ship. it turns out that what was said in the first part of the debate about greece's so-called economic problem is not so accurate. the problem of greece is mainly political. it is because this neighbouring country has a casus belli against greece and is systematically provoking the greek armed forces not only by violating the waters but also the airspace. (the president declared the microphone to be defective) i 'm not ... it should be known that greece has taken strict measures which in the last analysis literally stifle greek households and greeks are now outside their borders. it has exhausted the resilience of greek society and the economic resilience of the greek people. her problem, as i said, is mainly political. we are not asking any european citizen for money. we call for the european union as a whole to help us overcome these market irregularities which are attacking the euro.
the decision of the israeli government to go ahead with the plan to build 1600 new homes in east jerusalem, to expand the settlement in the west bank, to continue the blockade of the gaza strip and, in general, to escalate the israeli army's attacks on the occupied palestinian territories reveals to the most skeptical the criminal plans of israel and the imperialists in general against the palestinian people and the peoples of the wider region. israel is launching a new round of murderous attacks against the palestinian people, having secured the support and upgrading of its relations with the european union, the usa and nato in conditions of intense inter-imperialist rivalries in the quartet. this support was reiterated with particular emphasis and zeal by the united states of america during the recent visit of the prime minister of israel to that country, stressing that israel is more than a first priority for us geo-military imperialist plans in the wider region. we fight with all workers to create ... (the president cut off the speaker)
the quality of agricultural products is a priority for the consumer, through increased competitiveness for the producer and through the strengthening of the production area. the commission has therefore sought to protect it by, among other things, labelling. however, community legislation currently limits the mandatory labelling of the place of production to certain products, ensuring special treatment for them, leaving out agricultural products of high nutritional value and priority for the consumer. we therefore call on parliament to adopt a more consistent and reasonable stance in favour of protecting the interests of the consumer by advocating mandatory labelling of the place of production for all agricultural products, including processed products with only one ingredient, such as milk.
madam president, commissioner, in washington on 20 april we will have a premiere: for the first time, the employment ministers of the 20 richest regions of the world will be meeting. the european voice must be heard very loudly there. four and a half million jobs are at risk of being lost in the european region over the next three years, and this will have an impact on growth, will damage social cohesion, will cause social unrest. the creation of jobs must be a priority for europe. it is imperative that realistic, specific, measurable targets be set; the commission's proposals are based on the following principles: it is imperative that we can ensure that the citizens of europe have decent work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. we are almost forgetting the obvious: that work is a growth engine. finally, i think we must understand that we cannot talk about economic policy without having the employment parameter constantly in mind. i would like to conclude by saying that, otherwise, instead of talking about an employment ministers' council, we will be talking about an unemployment ministers' council.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, 25 march is the birthday of europe and of greece. on 25 march 1957, the treaty of rome gave the european union its start. on march 25, 1821, greece was born. today, on their birthday, europe and greece are being tested. the european union is not a political union, but a political union. we all know in this room that of the 15 countries in the euro area, 6 have high public debt and budget deficits. we all know in this room that all 30 oecd member countries have debt above 100% of gdp, and 30% higher than in 2008. the united states itself, in this huge economic crisis we are experiencing, is trying to solve its own problem by printing mainly paper money. we also know that greece has taken strict economic austerity measures to the exhaustion of its citizens. many will say that greece should suffer and pay for its mistakes. yes, some people will answer for that. but let us not forget that greece imports 15 billion euros more from other european countries, and especially from germany, than it exports. i would therefore ask the european union's leadership to take into account that tackling speculators will create a geopolitical situation in wider politics.
i would like to say at the outset, mr president, that this is an important report, which is also a worthy compromise of the tendencies that exist in the european parliament. it identifies elements of social cohesion which were not present in similar debates in the european parliament. we would also like it to mark a major shift in the policy of the european union as a whole. of course, he is referring to 2009, whereas in 2010 we had important developments that naturally also concern greece, my country. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and the euro should be accompanied by a minimum social security index for social cohesion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as an example, i can only emphasize that greece's productivity was not much lower than the average of the european union of 27. this is also shown by eurostat data: for 2007 and 2008 was around 90%. the increase in the budget deficit and public debt over the last two to three years in greece was a result of the collapse in revenues, the decrease in revenues from abroad, such as from tourism and shipping, due to the crisis, and the increase in public expenditure. of course there is waste but there is also recruitment in the public sector in various forms. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the income of large sections of the population living below the poverty line should not be reduced. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the giegold report should also mark a more general change and incorporate these positions into the stability pact. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
mr president, i would first like to wish my fellow countrymen all the best for 25 march. the capitalist crisis has resulted in a rapid deterioration of the living conditions of the workers. at the same time it gave capital the opportunity to intensify the implementation of anti-worker options. under the state of terror of the workers, the plutocracy has launched a real war against the fundamental wage and social rights in order to increase the profits of capital. the ecb is a key pillar of the anti-people policy of the european union and the governments of the member states. the only criterion for his tough policy is the profitability of the fund. the continuous calls for wage suppression and acceleration of capitalist structures since its inception have found fertile ground in the capitalist crisis. the ecb has acted as a bourgeois helper in the plutocracy's efforts to shift the burden of the crisis onto the shoulders of the working people. it funneled more than a trillion euros into the banks and the monopoly groups. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the european union must be able to take action to combat the spread of racism and xenophobia, and to combat the spread of racism and xenophobia.
mr president, let me first of all congratulate the two rapporteurs on the excellent work they have done in a particularly difficult situation. the work of one of the most crucial summits is about to begin and the plurality of voices is still raging around the so-called greek question and around whether and if we will proceed to establish a european mechanism that will act, if necessary, as a protection indicator for the economy that will need it and for the stability of the eurozone as a whole. it is undeniable that the main responsibility for this situation lies with greece and that it has taken it upon itself. but there are other responsibilities, collective ones. the single currency has brought many benefits but also has important weaknesses. in the 11 years of emu we have not wanted to see and recognise that the competitiveness gap and the significant inequalities and imbalances between the euro area economies are not compatible with either the sustainability or the stability of the euro area. the speculative attacks which have so far mainly concerned greece, but which only yesterday led to a downgrade of portugal's credit rating, have already been directed against other countries such as italy and spain, and no one knows what the consequences will be. if we are to rise to the occasion, we must therefore immediately move towards a new and strengthened model of economic coordination and economic governance, which, mr langen, respects the rules of the stability and growth pact, but which can also go beyond the narrowly defined budgetary coordination to economic coordination with additional criteria, meeting the objectives of the european union's strategy for employment and sustainable development.
mr president, i agree with my colleagues who said that the crisis is not over. the economic situation in many countries is clearly negative. unemployment in most countries is rising. the measures taken to deal with the deficits are deepening the crisis. mr trichet and mr rehn - and i'm speaking institutionally - you didn't see the crisis? you had the marks! when the crisis broke out, you hid behind the notion that everyone should solve their own problems. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the problem in the european union and in greece is not, in my view, sound fiscal policy. you know that countries like greece, in order to cover the debt, are a boon to speculators, but at the same time they reveal the institutional and political gaps that emu has. i would therefore say that what is needed is to change the stability pact. the persistence in the implementation of the stability pact, especially in a period of recession, will obviously increase and increase regional and social inequalities, increase unemployment and destroy any prospect of growth.
in writing. i abstained from this report. it should be noted that the economic recession is not receding, as the economic situation in almost all member states is clearly negative and unemployment is increasing. the specific problem is not the "healthy" budget. countries like greece are facing a public borrowing problem due to both speculative attacks by the markets and the institutional and political problems of emu. the public deficit crisis, which is a generalised phenomenon throughout the eu, is due, among other things, to the large scale of tax evasion, which the commission forgets. in addition, the support packages for the banks by national governments have also increased public deficits, as the spanish presidency admits after i asked about it. in any case, the obsession with the stability pact, and even in times of recession, is destructive. it leads to increased social inequalities, cuts in public investment, increases unemployment and undermines the development prospects of countries. the anti-development and anti-social stability pact must therefore be changed and a different framework for economic and social policy must be created, with a focus on labour and social needs and sustainable sustainable development.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution - it expresses satisfactorily and strongly to the council the problem of the expected decline in employment in the european union, which particularly concerns greece, while emphasizing the emergency measures for recovery which must be taken at european level. articles 12 to 18, which refer to improving coordination of economic policy cooperation, highlight the imbalances within the euro area due to the lack of coherence in the economic and, in particular, trade policies of the member states in a period of economic recession. i also believe that the european parliament's formal invitation to the commission to issue eurobonds and to jointly address the challenges within the euro area (article 26) is of particular importance in view of the policy that the european union will decide to pursue in the future.
in writing. the joint resolution adopted by our parliament, which i also voted in favour of, is very important. as highlighted in article 7, although roma constitute a pan-european community and therefore require a collective effort at european level, the european commission has not yet responded to the european parliament's call of 28 january 2008 to develop a european roma strategy in cooperation with the member states with a view to better coordinating the improvement of the situation of the roma community. since, under the principle of subsidiarity, the member states are primarily responsible for the smooth integration of this population group into their society - and greece has a large roma community - the european parliament should - and this is the direction this resolution is taking - call for the strongest possible initiative from the commission and the council to coordinate actions to ensure the full integration of roma into european societies.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution for reasons which go beyond the draft decision and the content of the council proposal on the supplement to the frontier code for the surveillance of the external maritime borders. although the second part of the decision, which is not binding on the member states, contains positive elements on the protection of human rights, the procedure for its ratification is a clear circumvention of the role and responsibilities of the european parliament. the council, by this draft decision, is going beyond its executive powers. if the european parliament accepts such a procedure, it creates a very negative precedent for its role and effective functioning, while it must preserve its powers of control, legislation and other powers as the only elected body at european level. we have also recently seen that the european parliament's decisive vote has prevented an agreement on the transfer of personal data of european citizens to the us intelligence services and government. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
in writing. the resolution concerns the draft council decision supplementing the schengen borders code on the surveillance of maritime borders in the context of operations coordinated by frontex for rescue measures at sea. as regards greece, and in view of the increasing migratory pressures, these measures facilitate the presence of frontex in the greek maritime area. in particular, these measures consist of both rules and non-binding guidelines and focus on the reception, search and rescue of people at sea. in substance, these are measures to be taken in the event that a ship is spotted and there is a suspicion that persons are on board trying to escape border control. in addition, search and rescue should be carried out on the basis of specific principles and the disembarkation of persons apprehended or rescued should be carried out on the basis of a specific operational plan. i therefore believe that this initiative should be supported and that the measures referred to in the council resolution should be implemented more quickly.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the budgetary priorities for 2011, partly because of the proposals on the financing of the cap. in particular, it is noted that the financing of priorities relating to the future eu 2020 strategy, through a possible reallocation of appropriations, should not be at the expense of fundamental eu policies such as cohesion policy, the structural policy or the common agricultural policy. the concern i expressed when the community budget for the current year was adopted regarding the narrow margin for agricultural expenditure is reiterated and the provision of an adequate margin in the 2011 budget is supported. the existence of a satisfactory margin of agricultural expenditure is particularly important in order to meet unforeseen needs in agricultural sectors, also in view of price volatility.
in writing. i voted against amendment no 3 because i am in favour of restoring the quality standards in the fruit and vegetable sector. i think that the commission's decision to abolish them, despite the opposition of a large majority of member states and the industry concerned, is unjustified. the eu rightly has the highest quality standards for agri-food products for the benefit of european consumers. at the same time, quality policy is of strategic importance, since it is the primary basis for the added value of european agricultural products on world markets. the problem, however, remains whether imported products meet equivalent quality standards. a register of all private quality certification schemes should be established and a legislative framework of basic principles established at eu level with a view to the transparent operation of such schemes. we are in favour of the indication of the place of production for all primary agricultural products. as regards geographical indications, the three eu systems for agricultural products and foodstuffs, spirits and wine should be maintained. ensuring enhanced protection of geographical indications in the framework of bilateral trade agreements and the wto is of paramount importance.
in writing. the objective of sufficient, safe and high quality food is a human need, a requirement of the workers, which cannot be guaranteed within the framework of the capitalist mode of production and marketing of agricultural products. the report expresses the eu's rationale that food and commodities should be produced to increase the profitability of the food industry and not to meet the nutritional needs of the people. at a time when 1 billion people are suffering from hunger and poverty is striking broad strata of the people in capitalist countries, the eu is using the quality of food as a pretext to restrict production, concentrate land in large capitalist enterprises and drive small and poor farmers off their land and agricultural production. the food scandals that have multiplied in recent years due to the capitalist conditions of food production increasingly imposed by the eu and the wto can never be effectively tackled by administrative control measures. just as gmos cannot coexist with conventional and organic food. only food sovereignty and security, the provision of safe, healthy, cheap food, the support of poor farmers and the formation of productive cooperatives within the framework of people's power and economy can meet the modern people's needs.
in writing. i voted against the ecb report 2008. since 2008, the ecb has provided liquidity to commercial banks, without however setting specific and strict rules and criteria for where this extra liquidity will be used. the result was a reduction in lending to smes and consumers and no expected reduction in consumer lending rates. the european central bank is also showing once again its inability to stop the commercial banks from fooling around by lending at 1% interest rates, while the commercial banks are lending to the states at much higher rates. the independence of the central banks must be recognised as not being the right choice, both from the point of view of democratic and political control and from the point of view of economic efficiency. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the financial sector is not subject to excessive regulation, and that the financial sector is not subject to excessive regulation.
mr president, yesterday the european council's decision we are discussing was a valuable one: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial crisis does not become a crisis, and that the council of ministers is not obliged to take any action. new orgy of speculation: the european union has been able to achieve a very high level of economic growth in the last decade. the plan failed. the markets you refer to prefer the international monetary fund as the watchdog of greece and other european economies. the european union is not a mere institution, but a political entity, and it is not a political entity, but a political entity. in deciding to involve the international monetary fund illegally, i wonder by what treaty and article does it provide for its involvement in internal affairs? impose a stricter stability pact at the expense of weaker economies and weaker social groups. what solidarity mechanism was set up at a time when a mechanism of blackmail and pressure was already apparent? in addition to greece, spain and portugal are taking harsh anti-people measures to avoid being in the same situation, with the result that poverty is increasing, unemployment is increasing, growth is falling and the recession is getting worse. social dumping has become the only competitive tool within the european union. this is not the europe of solidarity and cohesion!
the decisions of the european council, mr president, have once again demonstrated that the european union is an imperialist, transnational union of capital. the adoption of the guidelines for the european union's europe 2020 strategy and the 'supposed' mechanism to support the community economy are two sides of the same coin. they signal a series of new harsh anti-people measures of a permanent nature against the working class and the popular strata in 2010, 2011, 2012, and then in the long term, regardless of the level of public debt and deficits in the member states of the european union. all means are used to reduce the price of labour, to increase the degree of exploitation, with the aim of increasing the profitability of capital. the decisions of the european union and the civil governments of its member states are moving in this direction. the contradictions developing within the european union, but also between the european union and other imperialist centres and associations, such as the international monetary fund, are linked to the intensification of the rivalries between the capitals they represent. the european union's united strategy of capital and the bourgeois governments of its member states is opposed by the working class, the popular strata, with their own united front of struggle. so that radical changes can be achieved, to meet the modern needs of the working-class family.
mr president, it is a fact that monetary union was not followed by economic union. but economic union would probably mean the abolition of different political views, of different political formations. in this case, the decision taken for greece to join the international monetary fund was of course accepted by the greek government, but, if you will, it raises questions in depth. it is a sign of the union's inability to deal with the problems of greece itself, but with similar problems which may arise in the future. i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on this matter in due course. there is a crisis of values and this has been revealed by the international financial crisis. the european union must take appropriate action here too. the european commission and the european council should both take more general decisions to prevent the same in the future. the council's conclusions on combating poverty, social solidarity, the knowledge society, research, training, tackling climate change and climate change are of course very important. but we must look at these, and particularly research and competitiveness, in the light of the decisions taken in 2000 and in the light of the failure of the european union to implement the lisbon guidelines, which is obviously also a failure of the member states to implement that policy, while at the same time, on the other side of the atlantic, with great speed, and on the part of china and japan, the issues of research, society, knowledge and information are constantly in the foreground. in a way, i think it's a step. the conclusions of the task force will help us to take definitive and ultimately purely european decisions, because only then can we move forward and deal with a possible new international crisis.
mr president, 15 days ago the heads of state or government decided to set up a european solidarity mechanism to support economies in serious economic difficulties, such as greece, and to ensure the stability of the euro area. it was undoubtedly an important decision which we hoped, and we still hope, will put an end to the image of fragmentation and discord that has dominated the union throughout the past, with the painful consequences that are well known both for the cost of borrowing in greece and for the stability and cohesion of the euro area as a whole. however, apart from the undoubted political importance of the decision, we regret to note that the speculative attacks have continued and even increased in the last 24 hours, fuelled by certain ambiguities surrounding the support mechanism - which, mr president of the european council, it is absolutely necessary to clarify as soon as possible - and by a rumour of unclear origin and expediency which takes various forms, and in its latest version it appeared that greece was reluctant to ask for the renegotiation of the agreement of 25 march. you know that the greek government has denied this rumor. but you must also state in this chamber in an explicit and categorical manner whether the greek side has raised the question of renegotiating the agreement of 25 march in the last two weeks. and you must also have the will and the courage to ask those heads of state and government who had a key say and role in the formulation of the final agreement to respect the letter and spirit of the agreement, instead of making unfortunate statements about the level of interest rates they will impose on greece if it asks - which it has not done and does not intend to do - to activate the support mechanism.
mr president, many people are saying that it is not greece, it is not the euro zone, but the european union that will ultimately be judged by these developments in the next period. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its approach to the problem of the financial crisis, and that it has been very careful in its approach to the problem of the budgetary crisis. greece is not asking for help, it is taking action: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. by may, the greek parliament will approve sweeping changes to taxation, insurance and the labour market. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. but let us fight the battle to get europe out of it.
madam president, last february we presented the european commission's reuter trautman report on the world illicit drug markets from 1998 onwards to the european parliament. this report is a valuable database and its conclusions confirm some of the assessments that have been made so far of the ineffectiveness of drug policies in the european union, but also globally. the key conclusion is that current policies have failed to achieve their main objective of reducing the supply and demand of illicit substances, and are a critical factor in increasing harm to individual users, their environment, the economy and society. in 2004, the european parliament adopted a package of recommendations such as the catanea report. we therefore ask that this matter be reviewed in a broader context so that there is no harm to users.
madam president, the recent dismantling of a major terrorist cell in greece is a reminder that violence and the threat to democratic institutions know no borders, they do not discriminate. it is important to remember that the current economic crisis and the pessimism it generates among citizens breeds aggression and produces violence. no one disputes that violence is condemned in whatever form, wherever it comes from. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in any case, it is crucial to correct the chronic social pathologies that breed violence. we must strike at poverty and want. there is no longer any room for inaction. the last time europe's leaders faltered in the face of the social challenges of difficult economic times, our continent was plunged into the darkness of hatred and totalitarianism.
, member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work on this politically very important issue. the maritime transport strategy until 2018 has been very much used in preparing the commission’s europe 2020 strategy, and the process for a new white paper on transport is on its way. we can see that this transport strategy is at the forefront of major strategic developments in europe. shipping is one of europe’s strengths, and it is only natural that we should capitalise on what we have built in the past, but it is important to also look into the future. our main aim is to ensure and further increase the long-term sustainability and performance of european shipping. this means efficient, safe, secure and environmentally friendly maritime transport services. maritime transport provides for high-quality jobs in europe and fuels research and european industrial innovation. we also have ambitious environmental goals, and the commission has always emphasised the need for global solutions, especially on the reduction of greenhouse gases. the main work on the strategy was carried out before the economic crisis. in view of the economic downturn, the strategy is still valid. in this context, an emphasis must lie on the maintenance and improvement of the international order. we are faced with threats like protectionism, unfair competition, substandard shipping or piracy. we must find better responses to these issues, namely through dialogue with major trading partners. i welcome the conclusions reached by the committee on transport and tourism and the report presented and can assure you that many of the issues are already being addressed by the commission in various activities to implement the strategy, such as the proposal on reporting formalities for ships, an important element of the common maritime transport space without barriers. the commission services have also started working on a social agenda for maritime transport as well as on the eu e-maritime initiative, both of which the commission intends to present in 2011. i would also like to answer the point on state aid guidelines for shipping in 2010. on the one hand, the 2004 guidelines will not ‘expire’ in 2011, even if the commission said that they ‘will be reviewed within seven years’. on the other hand, the current crisis, with its severe consequences for shipping, calls for a very cautious approach. with regard to the specific measures, we are currently preparing a detailed road map for implementation of this strategy, which we plan to publish this summer.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, the commissioner's speech was very well received and i listened to it with great interest, because shipping is indeed a very important - i would say vital - sector for the european economy. the european union has every reason to maintain its leading role in this economic sector, but it must also maintain a high level of maritime transport. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's maritime transport sector is not left to the detriment of the environment. the report we are discussing today, which was adopted by an overwhelming majority in the committee responsible, is a detailed report which is moving in the right direction, and i believe that the text as it stands - without any changes or alterations - fully meets the need for a specific, firm line in the direction i have just mentioned. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the european parliament, and the council is to be consulted on the proposal. the first challenge is the need to increase competition. the fact is that free competition is the oxygen for shipping. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the conclusion is that state aid must be maintained, since it has contributed to maintaining the competitiveness of european shipping and the economies of the member states. the second challenge we are facing is the need to strengthen and improve the training of human resources in the shipping industry. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's maritime policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, the strategy we are discussing today is indeed extremely ambitious and, as far as the basic guidelines are concerned, i am fully covered by the recommendation of mr kumutsaku, who is also the rapporteur of our political group. but let me make a comment as a member of the libe committee on the very interesting and innovative initiative to set up a maritime monitoring network called e-maritime. the commission's proposal provides for the creation of an integrated information management system which will enable all ships at sea and their cargoes to be identified, monitored, located and reported. but similar electronic monitoring measures - i do not know whether they are more or less developed - are also being undertaken by frontex forces in the fight against illegal immigration. i would therefore like to ask whether we are taking this into account, whether the commission should clarify something in its communication, whether there should be specific, different responsibilities for each body, or whether this information should be brought together in such a way as to have a better result for both directions.
mr president, i ask for the floor to clarify that in my original speech i made an omission which was also not heard by other colleagues here. i would like to mention in particular the role of emsa (european maritime safety agency) - we had the opportunity with other colleagues to visit it recently - which is doing a great job, very useful for the development of the european union's maritime transport strategy. it needs our support and i believe that the data and technical capabilities it has not only help the union's shipping and maritime transport, but can also help in other areas as was said a moment ago, and especially in terms of, for example, data that frontex can also evaluate and use. i would like to conclude by saying that emsa is carrying out an important task which we must be aware of and take into account when we talk about the european union's maritime strategy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing an initiative which can prove to be a real treasure for europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are talking about an electronic cultural heritage of the european states which will allow access to primary cultural elements and i want to emphasize at this point that the success of europeana depends on the form we ultimately wish to give it, and i mean that we do not want a europeana copy of existing online platforms such as google or wikipedia. we want a serious and reliable source whose data will be of scientific significance and utility. a source where copyright is protected and the seriousness of the content is ensured. i think that is what is ensured by the amendments tabled and the debate we have had on this in the cult committee. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject.
mr. president, "the good captain, in the storm seems". in the volcanic storm that has hit europe, the union has been slow to anticipate, slow to react and slow to prevent the spread of the problems for european citizens. just like we were slow to react to the financial storm, but that's another conversation. there are two main points in today's debate: firstly, the flight ban and coordination. obviously, it can't be the airlines that weigh the risk of life and cost to them, and decide when and where to fly. this is a matter for the competent national authorities. the only positive achievement of the past few days is that we have not mourned the victims, we have not risked it. but in a situation that transcends the borders of europe, the national authorities should have coordinated with eurocontrol and the meteorologists from the outset, and should have considered whether they could open the corridors that we are now saying are being opened, and - unfortunately i am saying this - after financial pressure from the companies. that scares me! secondly, in such a chaotic situation, it is unacceptable that the application of the european passenger compensation regulation, which - especially in these cases - should have been triggered automatically, has been called into question. are you aware that very few stranded passengers today have assurances from their airlines that they will be paid for their overnight stays? that most of them have succeeded because they negotiated hard with the companies, while the majority have received nothing? i think that the european parliament should investigate here how the airlines have reacted to the regulation and whether passenger rights have been respected.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, these days have seen a turmoil in our lives unprecedented. the airplane, the means on which we depend for getting to and from our regions, brussels, strasbourg, was no longer available. the turmoil was huge, we had to take trains, boats, buses, spend a lot more time and many colleagues couldn't even attend and come here. but what we have seen in the last few days is that we are not totally dependent on the airplane, we have seen that there are alternative means, but also that the infrastructure for trains is lacking at the moment in europe and is not at the level of technology of our time. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the railway infrastructure in the community. a europe where all distances under 1000 km are covered by train and where we use the airplane only for the longest distances? the climate impact of air travel in the european union is enormous. they are bigger than those of refineries and steel plants... (the president interrupts the speaker)
the humanitarian crisis in haiti has highlighted, and unfortunately still highlights, the problems of european mechanisms for dealing with international humanitarian crises. we must create permanent funding mechanisms. in fact, we still have no fixed funds in the european budget for financial aid to third countries, and aid to haiti was mainly given bilaterally by european countries. help must arrive immediately, and in the case of the people who were hit by the earthquake in haiti, even after a week, help had not arrived. the european resources must be used efficiently. we need to have skilled personnel who can design, implement and rapidly and effectively implement humanitarian aid programmes. apparently the disaster in haiti was caused by an earthquake. but similar humanitarian crises can also be caused by other weather phenomena, such as hurricanes, tropical storms, floods, droughts, phenomena that will increase significantly in frequency and intensity in the face of climate change. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have a climate debt to vulnerable countries, and we need to learn from our weaknesses in dealing with the crisis in haiti so that we can meet our growing global obligations in the future.
president of the commission. − i understand your concern and it is a very legitimate concern, and i would like to say a word about the small and medium-sized companies, which in fact are, as you know, the most important driver for job creation in europe. now, how can you respond to this problem of competition coming from other parts of the world which have lower standards, both in labour and in environment? i think the solution is certainly not to close our borders, because the european union is by far the biggest exporter in the world. so the solution is to promote decent work and upgrading of social standards all over the world. that is a matter which we have been pushing inside the g20; that is a matter that we have been pushing with the international labour organisation, and that is a part of our dialogue with other partners. but i really think it is not a solution – unless there is dumping – to act via anti-dumping instruments, nor is it a solution to close our borders to other very important trade partners of europe. that will be self-defeating for us.
mr president, on the occasion of the handling of the greek problem - there have been reports before - all of us who are closely following the development and management of the problem are aware and have the feeling, many of us, of the commission's being sidelined by the council. the commission has always been, i think, a balancing factor between the medium and smaller member states of the union and the council. today, i think that its role in the issues facing greece, and not only, is limited to technocratic moves and statements. i would like to ask you specifically: we are talking about the economy, about monetary union, where the supranational elements will be more intense. we also talk about the ambitious strategy for 2020 that the commission is drawing up, and we refer to the fight against unemployment and poverty. how can the commission, when it is not playing its part, implement these ambitious strategies?
president of the commission. − first of all, regarding the issue of the funeral, i want to keep it completely separate from the rest. i had a great respect for president kaczyński. i worked in a very loyal manner with him. i did everything to be present at his funeral. i was present at all the ceremonies that i could attend marking the deaths of president kaczyński, his wife and all those that were killed in that tragic accident. i really do not understand how it is possible to make this kind of criticism against the european institutions, by using the death of so many people. i was trying to go to the funeral of president kaczyński until the very last moment. the problem is that only on saturday, very late in the evening, i received the information that the flight that was organised by the belgian authorities was cancelled. it was no longer possible for me to go. so i want to make it absolutely clear that i have done everything i could to pay tribute, not only to the people who died in the tragic accident, but to poland as a nation. regarding the issue, if i may now use the other minute to ask the question of the aviation sector, we are aware of the very important impact on industry of this volcanic problem and that is why we are already doing our work to see how we can in fact help, if needed, the european aviation industry. they are suffering severe economic losses, which are caused by not being allowed to carry out their commercial activities for several days. it is necessary to look for a global solution to help the industry out of the crisis and, in fact, we have a precedent, which was the crisis after 11 september. so we are looking at possible ways in terms of alleviation of the state-aid rules, as we have done in the past. we discussed this in the college meeting today.
mr president, mr barroso, between 2000 and 2006, according to official figures, unemployment in the european union was between 8 and 9%, thanks to the lisbon strategy which spoke of full employment. a recent commission report says that by 2010 unemployment will reach 10% and go beyond, a 'social volcano' to use the terminology of the period. in addition, in a number of countries that are implementing austerity programmes, such as ireland and greece, but also in countries like romania, hungary and latvia, which the international monetary fund has been involved in, we have unemployment rising to record levels. i would therefore ask you: has the commission considered the impact of these austerity policies which you are urging and pressing countries to follow in order to get out of the crisis? have you studied the effects on employment and the economy of a country when the international monetary fund is involved ? do you think that these policies will reduce unemployment in europe?
madam president, i would like to congratulate mr salafranca on his very comprehensive and well-documented report. i would also agree with the vice-president of the european commission, the high representative, on the importance she attaches to this effort for a much more closely linked partnership. it is true that latin america has undergone changes in the last 20 years, and it is true that the things that concerned us in the 1980s, the many dictatorships, have disappeared. however, the drug trade, money laundering, terrorism and the major problems of poverty, insecurity and unemployment in the region have not been eliminated. we therefore call on baroness ashton, with the help of the european parliament, to give special attention to areas related to education and culture. the latin american countries are the only countries which we can say are more closely linked - than any other third country - to europe in matters of history, education and culture, and i think that in these areas particular emphasis should be placed. the report by mr salafranca includes a comprehensive programme, it also proposes the creation of an institution, which is of enormous importance for the european parliament, and it certainly calls for a new and stronger role for the european parliament in relation to these countries. i think, madam president, that is what we should take away from today's report.
mr president, canada is one of the oldest and closest allies of the european union, dating back to 1959. however, our cooperation must always be based on shared values and mutual respect. canada is among the top ten greenhouse gas polluters in the world and is the only country that signed and ratified the kyoto protocol and then publicly announced that it has no intention of honoring its legal commitments. instead of reducing its emissions by 6% compared to 1990, canada's emissions increased by 26%. oil sands production is the main cause. the greenhouse gas emissions from oil sands production are 3 to 5 times higher than conventional oil and gas production. oil sand production also requires two to five barrels of water for every barrel of tar that is exported, and then creates a series of wastes that threaten both biodiversity and the lives of the indigenous people. production also destroys the boreal forest, one of the largest carbon reservoirs on the planet. by 2020, oil sands will probably produce more emissions than austria and ireland. canada spends only $77 per person on green grants, while korea spends $1,200, australia $420, and the us $365. ensuring the protection of the boreal forest is very important, and it is important to ask canada to comply with the international agreements we have jointly signed, but only we respect unilaterally, and this should be the basis for any further cooperation.
the next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions: the following questions are addressed to the commission. question no 25 by mr papastamkos (h-0124/10) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: establishment of a european credit rating agency will the commission propose the establishment of a european credit rating agency for the euro area member states or for their financial institutions ?
member of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank mr papastamkos for this question on a subject which i consider, in my present capacity, to be absolutely essential to the proper functioning of the economy and the financial markets. the rating agencies play a leading role in assessing the risks of the situation of companies, as indeed in the situation of states, and the crisis has shown that their operation, to say the least, has posed and poses problems with sometimes very heavy consequences. that is why the g20 has rightly taken strong decisions to put in place supervision and new governance rules. i would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that at the time of the crisis the commission very quickly took up its responsibilities in this area and made the regulation of the activities of credit rating agencies a priority over the last two years. as early as september 2009, one year after lehman's bankruptcy, the regulation on credit rating agencies was adopted with the support of the european parliament. i pay tribute here in particular to the work of your rapporteur, mr gauzès, in addressing the problems raised by the way these agencies operated, which contributed significantly to the financial crisis. the regulation i am referring to introduced a mandatory registration regime for all credit rating agencies established in the european union. it has imposed a series of stringent requirements, first to ensure that potential conflicts of interest are eliminated, second to review and enhance the quality of ratings and the methodology for rating, and third to ensure that these rating agencies act in a transparent manner. ladies and gentlemen, i am confident that the new rules on credit rating agencies that i have just mentioned will decisively improve the independence and integrity of the credit rating process and will enhance the transparency of credit rating activities and the quality of credit ratings, including those relating to the sovereign debt of states, european union countries and financial institutions in the union. so here we are. as regards the creation of a european public credit rating agency, as you wish, mr papastamkos, this idea is part of the debate on possible alternatives to the current business model of credit rating agencies, which is a so-called 'issuer-payer' model. the effects of such an idea must be carefully assessed, particularly in terms of liability. clearly, mr. member, my first priority today is to ensure that the 2009 regulation is properly implemented and that the current, renewed system is operational. but i am not closing the door on the idea that you support of the creation of a european agency. this has to be considered in the light of the assessment of the 2009 regulation and its effects on the rating agencies. moreover, this evaluation is provided for in the regulation and the commission must submit it to your parliament and the council by december 2012. what i can confirm is that the commission will soon propose an amendment to the regulation on credit rating agencies to give the new european financial market authority, esma, overall responsibility for the supervision of these agencies. you, the european parliament, asked for this when negotiating the regulation, and the heads of state agreed on this principle. so we're going to do it. i am convinced that the transfer of the supervision of credit rating agencies to the new authority will strengthen and improve the regulatory framework we have in our european union.
mr president, i would like to thank commissioner barnier for his reply and i would like to tell you, commissioner, that this is a matter on which i have exercised parliamentary scrutiny on a number of occasions since 2006, long before the international financial crisis. there are two paradoxes in my opinion: there are international rating agencies, but they are not internationally supervised. the second paradox is that private schemes and interests outside europe appear to prevail over european institutions and states. i would like to ask the commission, commissioner, to move more quickly in terms of regulatory time and pace, and finally, would you tell me where these rating agencies are located and how their turnover is distributed?
member of the commission. - mr president, mr papastamkos, i know your commitment for a long time, and that is why i am pleased with the dialogue you are opening today for the first time between us, since i have been here for only a few weeks. i take account of this new regulation, which was proposed by the previous commission, under the leadership of mr barroso, and which improves things. i have mentioned the new requirements that will be imposed on the rating agencies and i have spoken of the latest progress that will be made on the proposal that i will make to you, as you have requested, for supervision by esma. you are right in what you say: this is not the only area where, in a common and single market which is now largely integrated, we find that there are companies, especially financial companies, which are no longer national. i would remind you, mr papastamkos, that in our european union, in half the countries, 50% of the banking sector is owned by groups from another country. we are thus in an integrated market with largely crossborder firms, and supervision has remained national. so we have an integration work to do, and that is what we are committed to. with the new powers given to esma, there will be the international, let us say european, supervision you want. now, as your country has suffered this tremor, we have a duty to be very vigilant. i'm not gonna make a lawsuit about what happened. we have a duty to be vigilant in all cases where rating agencies are judging states, assessing their economic situation and the state of their public service. why would you do that? because what is at stake is indeed a sovereign state, the cost of its indebtedness and, in the final analysis, the situation of the taxpayers, who i think are too often put in the forefront. this is the subject of the proposals i have just made to the council of finance ministers in madrid on saturday for the anticipation, prevention and management of future crises, so that taxpayers are no longer always called upon to act on the front line. i am very aware of the effects of the decisions made by the rating agencies and how they shape the behaviour of investors. that is why we need strong, demanding legislation, and we need these agencies to measure all their responsibilities, and to be monitored to do so. they will be monitored by the european authorities in the context of the proposals i will make at the end of this year.
member of the commission. - mr papastamkos asked me, mr president, whether he would support the creation of a european rating agency which, if i understood him correctly, should be a public agency. i didn't take a position on that. this was not the direction in which the commission had worked, since its proposal, through the regulation you adopted, was to renew the current system of agencies, which are private agencies, and to very rigorously strengthen the requirements of transparency to avoid conflicts of interest and honesty in their rating work. so here we are. the regulation is now here, it will come into force as soon as possible, without delay, by the way, and then we will supplement this mechanism with a supervisory role for esma. i have not closed the door on this new agency which mr papastamkos is calling for, but we really need time to evaluate this change in business model, which is underpinned by the idea of such a european rating agency. it's an idea that i find interesting, but it needs to be evaluated very carefully. so i'm not going to say who would make it, how it would work, because i don't know. such an agency would raise the question of government interference in its work. the strict conditions applied to private credit rating agencies should also apply to a european public agency, in particular the rules on conflicts of interest. these questions would arise if we were to go in the direction of creating a new european public agency. to answer this question, frankly, by doing serious work and avoiding improvisation, we would first need to take the time and the decisions necessary to implement the new system you have adopted through this regulation, and then take the time to answer all the questions seriously, including those i have just asked.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but given the exceptional circumstances of this plenary, what we are going to do is to read out the names of those who are not present and colleagues will receive a written answer to their question. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. second part
vice-president of the commission. − the commission is closely monitoring the developments regarding smart phones and related markets. as the honourable member recognises in his question, in some instances new markets are being created. the commission is fully committed to ensuring that general eu rules and principles relating to competition are respected, while taking account of the dynamic and fast-changing circumstances in the market. as recent cases such as microsoft and intel have shown, the commission will take enforcement action to ensure that competition on the merits allows, where necessary, consumers to choose between different alternatives and therefore benefit from technical developments and innovations. in that respect, while acknowledging that proprietary technology is at the heart of europe’s success in second- and third-generation mobile technologies, the commission is at the same time aware of the excellent technical development driven by non-profit technologies. while we have to leave it up to the industry to decide the specific business model it wants to use and up to the market to choose the winner, the commission emphasises the importance of interoperability in encouraging competition on the merits between technologies from different companies and helping prevent lock-in. in this context the commission welcomes the use of openness specifications that may prevent the unfair transmission of dominant positions between neighbouring markets. open platforms serve that purpose, allowing the creation of competitive markets on top of software systems.
vice-president of the commission. − i know that the points you refer to in your second question can create problems for competition on the market. we are closely monitoring this issue all the time but i cannot comment on particular investigations that are now ongoing or are being developed. however, i am fully aware that the questions that you raised and the concerns that you have presented to parliament are real, and my role and that of the competition authority is to monitor the situation and to avoid a kind of dominant position with closure of the market, barriers for new entrants and, ultimately, problems for the consumers and users of these new technologies, who should benefit and not suffer from the development and improvement of technologies.
vice-president of the commission. − in relation to the question, i think we should combine, where appropriate, regulation and competition instruments. in terms of some of the aspects that were raised in the questions and in your intervention, competition instruments have been useful and shall continue to be useful, but i am not excluding that at any moment the commission, where appropriate, will use the regulatory powers that we have. we did this in the past and we can do it again in the future. i think the best solution is an adequate mix of competition and regulation, not as alternative instruments, but as complementary ones. and, regarding your question, excuse me, honourable member, i am not a lawyer; i do not know the least thing about the complaints of individual citizens before the courts. in any case, we receive some information and sometimes complaints and every time that we need to react where we consider that the information we have received or the complaints that have been sent to the commission deserve a reaction on our part – and you have seen our instrument – we do just that. as i said in my previous answer, in this area, in this question, with these problems, we are now dealing with some investigations but i cannot publicly confess because by nature i have to be discreet.
the next author, mr tussauds, who is absent, and mr ziobro will receive a written reply as mentioned above.
member of the commission. − the financial crisis in greece did not originate in the banking sector but in the public sector. banking sector vulnerability has increased, however, due to the exposure of the banks to greek government bonds and, more importantly, due to low economic growth prospects. the commission, in making its own analysis of the greek economy and financial system, takes into consideration multiple sources of information, including the credit agencies. in this context, the commission is carefully monitoring implementation of the additional fiscal measures announced by the greek authorities on 3 march 2010 and adopted by the greek parliament on 5 march 2010, with a view to achieving the 2010 budgetary targets. the commission is closely monitoring developments in the greek banking sector. some 8% of the banks’ assets are in the form of government bonds or loans, although the government and non-performing loans arising are not expected to top eight percent in 2010 due to the weak economy. furthermore, greek banks are heavily dependent on the ecb refinancing operations for short-term funding being shut off from the international money markets. the commission takes its responsibility to ensure macro-financial stability in the euro area and the eu as a whole. indeed, banks in other eu countries are exposed to the greek crisis mainly through their holdings of government debt, with france and germany the most concerned. while these exposures are not very large in terms of gdp, they are likely to be more significant in terms of the balance sheets of individual banks. meanwhile, about 10% of greek banks’ balance sheets is invested in southern and eastern europe, implying another transmission channel.
mr president, thank you for your answer, commissioner. apparently there are problems with the banks in greece. there is this liquidity that the greek government has provided which, unfortunately, is not going to the real economy, but the point i would like to make to you is that every time greece announces some measures, some forms of lending, these famous rating agencies appear and lower the creditworthiness of greece and greek banks. it's a sad part to play. there has been discussion before, and i do not wish to recycle it. it is indeed unreliable that these rating agencies are american private companies and i find it unacceptable that the european central bank and the european institutions - even today - accept them as raters. the question that is asked and heard before the answers: okay in 2013 probably the issue will be regulated. now, immediately, is it possible for the european union and the institutions to disregard the assessments of these houses?
mr president, commissioner, thank you very much for your reply. i have listened very carefully to the information you have given us and to the way in which you have explained the commission's position. i'm trying to make a point. if, at some point in the near future, another euro area country is faced with related problems with rating agencies and market pressure, will we follow suit? are we going to adopt a "see and do" logic? do we think that with the approach we have taken so far to the greek problem, we are facing overall structural problems in the euro area which may at some point in the future concern other member states?
member of the commission. − let me first of all recall that i am answering these questions in place of commissioner rehn, who is ill, so this is not my particular portfolio, but i can say, on the questions that have been raised with respect to the national budget that we discussed for the first time last week in the college, what measures should be taken for the future monitoring. that is, of course, one of the topics that will be addressed, but it is clear that at this moment there is no decision on that yet. there has only been a debate to make sure that the matter is duly discussed in the college and the commissioner competent will come with proposals shortly. then you can of course discuss it with him directly. on the second question, there is no reason for the commission to take a different stance vis-à-vis greece and vis-à-vis whatever other member state, so i hope these questions are not put to us any more; if they were put to us again, we would have exactly the same stance.
question no 30 by mr brian crowley (h-0172/10) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: broadband strategy for the eu what measures does the commission intend to take to promote high-speed internet access throughout the european union, particularly in rural areas?
vice-president of the commission. − i am grateful for the first question because, indeed, when talking about broadband, it is not only about cable fibre, but also wireless, via satellite and so on. so, when i answer the honourable member by saying that it is 100% coverage, i do not mention in which way the problem will be dealt with or solved. but i am quite positive about ireland and their investment level. when there was the opportunity to spend structural funds, especially focusing on and investing in this type of issue, ireland made the most of that opportunity. it was a bit under 50%. compared with other member states, i felt dismayed as sometimes it was a third, or even this opportunity was not taken. investing in this type of infrastructure is really working for the future and the recovery of the economy and creating jobs. but, sometimes, i count my blessings and also my past experience. in my former portfolio, i had the privilege to review state-aid rules. one of those reviewed state-aid rules was connected with, for example, broadband. what we did with the review was to give more guidance as to how, when and in what way it could be dealt with. by the way, it is also investigating, with the european investment bank, possible ways to take advantage of their funds and support the funding of civil engineering. i think that, at the moment, with the recent review of the state-aid rules, it is quite clear what is possible and what is not acceptable. you can always ask the staff of joaquín almunia to give you guidance, so do not hesitate when there is any uncertainty. all in all we need to be aware that this is really public-private partnership that is making a big difference in this type of issue. of course, it depends on the member state and what is at stake, but all in all i think that with the 100% coverage – and i am repeating myself – we are serving an excellent goal by talking about the 50%. i know what 100 megabytes are, but what can i imagine? well a blink of an eye is less than 100 megabytes so we are talking about a tremendous step forward. so broadband measures and what concerns us in this debate is really scheduled to take place earlier than 2011.
question no 33 by mr bernd posselt (h-0128/10) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: great britain, sweden and the euro how does the commission assess the risks posed to the eu as a single economic area by the fact that member states such as great britain and sweden are still not adopting the euro as their currency, and what measures and initiatives are planned for the new commission term in this area?
member of the commission. − as i rightly mentioned, sweden does not fulfil certain criteria. i mentioned the two criteria: it is not a member of the exchange rate mechanism, and some elements of its central bank legislation would have to be made compatible with euro-area membership. it seems to me that these are, let us say, criteria which are possible to fulfil. they are not economic criteria with respect to debt or with respect to deficits. whether or not the commission will take action in that respect is a matter for you to put to the commissioner who is competent for this, mr rehn, who unfortunately is ill at the moment. with respect to estonia, as far as i know, this is still under reporting with respect to the convergence criteria and there is no definite stance of the commission on this.
question no 34 by mr papanicolaou (h-0130/10) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: extension of cuts to the private sector on march 4th, your spokesman amadeus alfatas said that the cuts in the greek public sector are very likely to be followed by corresponding cuts in the private sector. from an economic point of view, such a development would further aggravate the recession, since domestic demand and domestic consumption would be greatly constrained. the direct effect of this cyclical nature is a reduction in government revenues. i would like to ask the commission where the optimism comes from that the disarmament of consumer power is a guarantee for greece to get out of recession. i think it doesn't take a great deal of economics to say with certainty that the limitation of consumer power leads precisely to an even deeper recession.
member of the commission. − indicators reveal that over the last decade there has been a disconnection between wage and productivity developments in greece. this has generated competitiveness losses, reflected in persistent current account deficits and a fall in export market shares. labour market rigidities and wage-setting have been identified as an important factor behind the excessive wage growth in greece and the resulting gap in unit labour costs with its main trading partners. in recent years, domestic demand has been the main contributor to economic growth, fuelled by buoyant growth in general government expenditure and household incomes. private final consumption expenditure per capita increased by more than 80% over the last decade. this model has clearly been unsustainable, resulting in the build-up of significant fiscal, which means a high general government deficit and growth debt stock, increasing interest payments and macroeconomic, which implies a high current account deficit and external debt outflow of income imbalances. the increased financing needs of the government have resulted in the public sector absorbing a large part of the available financing, thus ruling out the private sector and adversely affecting the economy’s growth prospects. economy-wide wage moderation, with public sector wage cuts playing an important signalling role to the private sector, and fiscal austerity measures are thus indispensable to put the greek economy on a stronger footing by restoring competitiveness and achieving fiscal consolidation. the commission is aware that fiscal austerity measures and wage moderation may have a negative short-term impact on demand. nonetheless, given the current situation that greece is facing, these measures are necessary to restore market confidence and to lay down the foundations for a more sustainable growth model for the greek economy in the long term. greece has adopted an ambitious programme to correct its deficit and to reform its public administration and the economy. the consolidation measures taken by greece are important for enhancing fiscal sustainability and market confidence and have been strongly welcomed by the commission, the eurogroup, the european central bank and the international monetary fund. the courageous measures included in the stability programme and the packages announced in february and march 2010 include not only the envisaged wage cuts through a reduction in allowances paid to civil servants and easter, summer and christmas bonuses, but also measures to improve the tax collection mechanism, widen the tax base and increase tax compliance. in the communication adopted on 9 march 2010, the commission concluded that greece is implementing the council decision of 16 february 2010 and that, based on available information, the fiscal measures announced by the greek authorities on 3 march appear sufficient to safeguard the 2010 budgetary targets.
mr president, commissioner, the greek statistical office has announced in its latest - i think today's - announcement that unemployment in greece has risen to 11.3%, of which almost half (45%) are young people under the age of 34. in the most productive age group, 25-34 years, unemployment stands at 14.6%. i would also point out that this generation of young people in greece is paid very low wages, well below the european average. it is the 700 euro generation, as it is called in greece, and we fear that it will go even further now. i think we should be careful about these generalizations, especially at such a difficult time for unemployment, because as you can see greek society is worried. so you think that with all this unemployment and all these problems in greece, with new cuts and new layoffs we can lead to growth?
member of the commission. − of course we are very much concerned by the unemployment in greece, and not only in greece but also in the rest of the european union. on the other hand, it is also quite important that economic fundamentals are respected and when over a certain period of time wages go up faster than productivity then you have a problem, and that is essentially what has happened in greece. i realise that this is a massive problem, especially for young people, and we are actively monitoring the situation, but we are also of the opinion that long-term financial sustainability of a member state of the european monetary union is essential.
mr president, my question is principally about the question raised by the honourable member. it says that mr rehn's spokesman has apparently suggested that in greece cuts should be made in the private sector. the question, mr commissioner, is this: by what right do commission inspectors, commissioners' representatives and possibly commissioners, talk, speculate, predict, press for greece to do something in areas which are not community policy but national policy, such as matters of wages, pensions, public administration, health. who legitimizes these statements, and where do they derive this competence and jurisdiction to ask or seek or make such predictions about the greek economy?
member of the commission. − we are certainly not asking for employment in the private sector to be reduced, but we are seeing unemployment rise, not only in greece but also in a larger part of the european union as a result of the financial economic crisis. what we are saying is that we have to redress the greek economy if we want the greek economy to be sustainable over the longer term. we should also preserve the economic monetary union, which is of invaluable importance for the whole of the european economy: that is what we are saying; we are certainly not saying that unemployment should rise. unfortunately, this is the result of policies that have been conducted over a certain period of time.
question no 35 by mr ádám kósa (h-0133/10) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: conflict of competence between the member states and the european union in agreements with the imf in order to avoid a wider crisis, the commission has amended, inter alia temporarily, the state aid rules by introducing significant simplifications in the eligibility of smes (european economic recovery programme). hungary has recently been in a particularly difficult financial crisis as a result of its own economic policies. under the agreement with the imf worth some eur 20 billion, hungary is obliged to go against values such as a high level of employment and the protection of disadvantaged groups, values enshrined in the treaties and which hungary as an eu member state considers to be of paramount importance. can such an arrangement be legal? who is to blame if in an eu member state, following an agreement with an international organisation that has nothing to do with the european union, the employment situation, including support for the employment of people with disabilities, deteriorates dramatically?
member of the commission. − when the global financial crisis hit hungary particularly hard in autumn 2008, the commission and the council decided very quickly to support hungary with a major eu support package of up to eur 6.5 billion, which exceeded half of the available funding for non-euro area member states at the time and, together with the loans from the imf and the world bank, made a total of eur 20 billion. i would like to stress that without this assistance hungary would have faced much larger disruptions to its economy than the 6% decline observed last year and the expected stabilisation this year. moreover, given that the government had lost access to financial markets, no support would have meant that fiscal policy would have been even more restrictive than has been the case under the programme, and expenditure restraint would have been more severe. thus, by limiting the magnitude of the recession, avoiding a sharper increase in unemployment and supporting the financing of the deficit, that international assistance has directly contributed to limiting the social consequences of the crisis, including among the vulnerable sections of society. of course, in order for the economic programme to be credible, and to reassure investors that over time hungary would be back to sound public finances and sustainable growth, it was important that the government implemented an economic strategy that included financial consolidation measures. under the principle of subsidiarity, member states are responsible for the design and implementation of social policy measures. that being said, the assistance supported the actions of the government aimed at making budgetary savings and at better targeting expenditure, and in particular at assisting poor and low-income earners.
member of the commission. − i am not responsible for this commission file, but it would seem to me that the honourable member is hinting at a eur 100 billion package, but that it is a package that was financed by the member states themselves, and which the member states got the authorisation to put into practice. it was not money that was put at the disposal of the member states. you will find the eur 100 billion on the debit side of their national budgets. what has happened with hungary, because it was necessary, is that additional aid of eur 20 billion was put at the country’s disposal, which is something that has not happened with the other economies. they have only been authorised to take measures so that they could overcome the crisis, but no actual disbursement has been made to those member states.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the question is therefore: has the commission considered why the international monetary fund joined the european union and in what treaty and article is the participation of the international monetary fund in the procedures of the european union provided for? why does it not choose a european solution for greece as provided for in the treaties, in article 122 (2)?
member of the commission. − very briefly, if the imf were to intervene in greece, that of course would be at the request of greece. they do not intervene unilaterally and, as the honourable member knows, there has been a european agreement among the member states and the members of the economic and monetary union to have a joint effort of the member states of the european union and the imf. but it is only at the request of a member state, in this case greece, that this will actually happen, and that is what i understand is presently being discussed.
question no 36 by mrs theoharos (h-0139/10) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: budgetary deficit in cyprus the economic crisis is affecting the whole world and the countries of the eurozone. does the commission have data showing the budget deficit and other indicators of the cypriot economy? is the trend of the cypriot economy and, by extension, its indicators worrying? does the commission consider that measures should be taken concerning the budgetary situation of cyprus, what measures and for how long? has the eu and in particular the commission's views and recommendations been exchanged and forwarded to the cypriot government?
member of the commission. − mr president, let me kindly ask you whether this debate could come to an end. i am replacing mr rehn, and normally question time stops at 8 o’clock. i have other engagements so i cannot stay. that is a real problem for me. i have no time and cannot stay.
member of the commission. − it is up to the president to decide on this. let it also be very clear that i am not at present answering questions that are put to me but am replacing mr rehn, who cannot be here because he is ill. you have to say that to the president. i respect the authority of the president in parliament. it is not up to me.
you are right to point out the problem. you are replacing commissioner rehn, which is unfortunate, of course, given the importance of the questions. nevertheless, question time is scheduled until 8.30 on our agenda. given the circumstances, whereas i cannot tie you down on that chair, i can tell you that what is expected is for you, having received the unfortunate role of replacing commissioner rehn, to do so in the full range of his questions.
member of the commission. − well, i can only repeat what i said, that there will be an assessment and this is the normal procedure that we apply to all member states including cyprus. if the commission comes to the conclusion that this is an excessive deficit, then it will make recommendations to cyprus.
question no 37 by mr morten messerschmidt (h-0142/10) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: greece and the current crisis in european cooperation greece is discovering the other side of european cooperation. in the good old days, everything in the eu seemed to be rosy. but once the financial crisis hit europe, the situation worsened dramatically. the greek government deficit stood at 12,7% of gross national product in 2009 and is significantly above the 3% allowed by the stability pact for euro area countries. athens is now forced to impose an austerity programme that involves cuts of €4.8 billion in the state budget. the greeks are forced to tighten their belts and austerity is affecting everyone indiscriminately, from civil servants to pensioners. in general, fluctuating exchange rates are not a good thing. they do not benefit anyone, nor do they solve any fundamental, structural problem. however, we are obliged to recognize that money, like everything else, has a "price". the price of money in greece has been felt in the form of exorbitant interest rates which have resulted in the freezing of all economic activity. when the situation becomes so dramatic, a country must be able to use the emergency brake and "drop" the value of money. does the commission not agree with all this and therefore not admit the inherent weakness of the euro?
member of the commission. − certainly not. the whole idea of a monetary union is of course – and everybody is perfectly aware when they become a member of the european monetary union – that you can no longer devalue your currency because you do not in fact have a currency any more. there is only the common currency. there is no longer such a thing as a greek currency. the greeks have the euro as their currency. so an individual devaluation is completely contradictory to the whole idea of a european monetary union, and it is not by accident that greece is a member of the european monetary union. it is a member because they did everything – really everything – to get in.
question no 38 by mr gay mitchell (h-0145/10) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia the idea of a european monetary fund has been raised in recent weeks as a mechanism for dealing with crises such as the one that struck greece earlier this year. what is the situation with regard to this proposal? how could such a fund function in practical terms? what are the main obstacles to the creation of an enp? for example, is it possible to create it on the basis of the provisions of the present treaty?
member of the commission. − the crisis has demonstrated the need for establishing a crisis resolution framework for the euro area. due to the need to consider all economic, legal and institutional implications, this is an issue for the medium term rather than the immediate view. the heads of state and governments of the euro area gave a strong signal on 25 march, by calling for the establishment of a task force to work on measures for the euro-area framework for crisis resolution before the end of the year. the public discussion regarding a european monetary fund has touched a number of elements that are relevant in this respect. in particular, the commission agrees that there is a case for establishing a framework for emergency financial support under strict conditionality and subject to incentive-compatible interest rates. however, no new body is needed to provide it or to define and monitor conditionality. consistency with the stability-oriented governance framework of the emu needs to be ensured. the commission is considering the scope of proposals to this effect. more generally, a firm commitment to sound policies by all euro-area member states remains the cornerstone of the successful functioning of the emu. in this context, the commission is in the process of preparing for the proposals on reinforced economic policy coordination and country surveillance building on the proposals presented in the recent commission communication on europe 2020 strategy.
member of the commission. − you should put the question on a specific time-frame to commission rehn, but when you look at the recommendations that we have been making and the agreement that has been made to support greece, in particular, by a combination of bilateral loans and international monetary fund support, it is clear that the commission is of the opinion that what happened now in any case could not be resolved by the putting into place of a european monetary fund because this would certainly take much more time than we have with respect to greece. so this is a medium-term project that we are sympathetic with, but with respect to a specific time-frame, i really suggest you put the question to mr rehn.
question no 39 by mrs rodi kracha-tsagaropoulou (h-0150/10) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: mechanisms for the financial monitoring of the member states olli rehn, commissioner for economic and monetary affairs, said that 'the crucial lesson of the crisis is that we urgently need deeper and more extensive surveillance of economic policies, including the early detection and treatment of imbalances, in order to safeguard macroeconomic stability in the euro area'. given that the commission has the tools and mechanisms to monitor the budgetary policies of the member states under articles 121 and 126 of the treaty, and given that the majority of them have deficits well in excess of the 3% threshold, the commission is asked: does it intend to strengthen the preventive nature of surveillance? if so, by what means and procedures? does it intend to put forward proposals to strengthen economic convergence in the euro area? does it intend to promote the necessary structural changes in the member states so that they can be implemented in time for the public finances to allow it?
member of the commission. − the commission has long argued in favour of deepening and broadening euro-area economic surveillance. the importance of this issue was recognised by the european parliament in its report on the 2009 annual statement from the euro area and public finances. the commission intends to make full use of the new treaty instruments to achieve stronger policy coordination and governance. a forthcoming communication will outline new proposals in order to frame the development of a comprehensive framework for crisis prevention and correction in the euro area through recourse to the new article 136 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the communication may include proposals to reinforce the preventive and corrective arms of the stability and growth pact; proposals for more effective and broader surveillance of intra-euro area macroeconomic imbalances and explore the options for the creation of a crisis resolution mechanism for euro-area countries. regarding fiscal policy, a reinforced emphasis on fiscal sustainability is warranted because of the impact of the crisis on debt and growth potential, as well as the demographic factors kicking in. the incentives for compliance with the preventive and corrective dimensions of the stability and growth pact need to be made stronger. the commitment to consolidation needs to become stronger in good times. underlying vulnerabilities of public finances should be taken properly into account when designing the optimal consolidation part. new focus should be given to debt dynamics and sustainability and quality of public finances, including national fiscal roots. there is also a need to address cases where the rules are continuously broken; penalties could be made more deterrent and incentives strengthened. competitiveness developments and macroeconomic imbalances, on top of fiscal imbalances, are a matter of concern for all eu member states. however, surveillance of macroeconomic imbalances and competitiveness diversions are particularly warranted for eu member states that linked to the euro because of the higher degree of economic and financial spillovers across euroarea member states; less market discipline; the absence of exchange rate risks and more challenging adjustment with potentially high cost for the euro area as a whole. competitiveness divergences are a cause of serious concern for the functioning of the european monetary union. during the decade preceding the crisis, divergence has been underpinned by a worrying build-up of a range of domestic economic imbalances in some member states including inter alia high debt and housing bubbles in some current account deficit countries, as well as entrenched weakness in domestic demand in some surplus countries. diverging wage and cost trends, the accumulation of a sustainable external debt position and the protracted mythical allocation of resources raised the stake for adjustment and increased vulnerability of public finances. at the same time, countries heavily relying on trade surpluses have fallen victim to the sharp contraction in world trade in the early stages of the global crisis. therefore, complementing fiscal surveillance, the commission intends coming forward with proposals for the broadening of economic surveillance in the euro area, addressing macroeconomic imbalances and competitive developments. the aim is to set up a framework for early detection, prevention and effective correction of intra-euro area imbalances. the third main element in the commission’s proposal will explore the options for setting up a crisis resolution mechanism. the ad hoc mechanism for possible financial assistance for greece serves the immediate need. however, it is necessary to set up a permanent crisis resolution mechanism with strong built-in disincentives for activation. establishing ex ante clear, credible and consistent rules and procedures for the provision of exceptional and conditional support for a euro-area country in serious distress will bolster the fundaments of the emu. the proposals for enhanced economic surveillance and coordination in the euro area are an important complement to the eu’s comprehensive 2020 strategy for growth and jobs. the commission will ensure the efficient articulation between the two frameworks.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. what i want to know with my question is whether we will be seriously concerned for the first time about divergence, not only fiscal imbalances but also economic divergence and not only supervisory mechanisms for fiscal surveillance but also for tackling divergence. the international crises, the greek crisis have brought to the surface all these weaknesses of the eurozone.
member of the commission. − first of all i would also like to apologise to the interpreters but i am in a somewhat exceptional situation. you could also interpret that i tried to answer all the questions within the time-frame of 20.30. with respect to the additional question, i think you should go back to the origin of the crisis in your country, which is in fact that these imbalances have been created over time. there is a very big imbalance with respect to competitiveness. wages went up much higher than did competitiveness and this is of course, in the first instance, also a matter of national policies. regarding whether it is better to have closer monitoring, the answer is yes. that is why we are proposing a new scheme for that. you should not forget that in 2002 the european commission made a proposal that auditors could be sent to a member state to check the numbers, for example, but it was not accepted by the member states. so the commission has always been aware that monitoring was a very important part of the national budgets being compatible with the european monetary union, especially in the case of greece.
all i can tell you is that olli rehn owes you a big one, apparently! so you have something to negotiate with him next time there is a question time, perhaps when it is your turn to stand here.
mr president, it is indeed extremely important that the european asylum support office is established, and so i regard it as symbolically important that it is being set up in malta, a country in southern europe which is under great pressure both from those seeking asylum and in the context of illegal immigration. it is very important to strengthen and coordinate even more cooperation between member states on asylum matters and finally to try to arrive at a uniform approach between different national practices, while we all recognise the great differences that exist. for example, and this information is also available to the commission, but i believe that it is already known, an iraqi asylum seeker may have a 71% chance of having his application accepted in one member state, while in another member state for the same person the chances may be only 2%, and of course there are different problems between member states. the dublin ii agreement is also a fact that it places a greater burden on some member states than others, and of course this asylum service is also supporting the solidarity mechanisms offered through the european refugee fund. i am referring to the transfer and resettlement of refugees, both in terms of refugees from third countries in europe and, of course, in the so-called 're-allocation' of refugees. we are making small steps towards resettlement from third countries, but we are trying. but as regards - and i would like to stress this to the commissioner - the internal resettlement of refugees, although we all recognise that there are greater burdens in some member states, particularly in the south of europe, than in others, we have not made any specific proposal, we have not taken any initiative on these matters. we are waiting for the commission's proposals, we have sent a letter to the libe committee and we must at least be bolder on these issues because the pressures are too great. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to conclude by saying: it is very important that we develop mechanisms in the european union for the reception of refugees, for the acceptance of asylum applications. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must give all those who are looking for a better home, a better future, the message that in europe, by seeking legal paths, one has a better chance of succeeding than by choosing the path of illegal immigration, which unfortunately exerts too great a pressure.
in writing. i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr evgeni kirilov, and all the members of our committee, because it was their determination and persistence that enabled us to discuss this extremely important report today and to proceed immediately to its adoption, without wasting any more valuable time. what i want to stress is the crucial role of change in order to: increase absorptive capacity of funds, reduce red tape and complexity of rules, maximise the impact of funding on the whole economy and thus multiply the benefits for citizens. in his speech, commissioner hahn rightly pointed out that cohesion policy, despite being perhaps the most successful european policy, does not only have friends. the adoption of the changes we are discussing today is an important step, but it is now imperative that the european commission immediately proceeds to the next step, which is to bring to the table its vision for the cohesion policy of tomorrow, with the ideas, proposals, necessary changes to the framework, operation, responsibilities, new tools ... it is high time for this next step now before new unattributed documents surface.
mr president, i start from the assumption that there is a great deal of instability on the agricultural markets and a significant fall in the prices of basic agricultural products. at the same time, consumer prices are rising and agricultural incomes are falling substantially. in my view, as a result of the revisions and the decoupling of aid, the cap is sufficiently market-oriented. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it produces public goods, it needs public european financial support. i cannot help but notice the contradiction in the arguments of my colleagues who here advocate market orientation, but in their own countries they maintain, cultivate and promote a consumer nationalism, a consumer patriotism. however, the current market management measures do not provide the necessary safety net, as the previous speaker, mr nicholson, said. we need complementary measures, more flexible and more effective. the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a new regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. i also think we should equip the cap with a budgetary mechanism to deal with crisis situations, if you want a crisis management fund. the guarantee of producers' income also requires that transparency in the food supply chain is ensured. we cannot, and i conclude, confine ourselves to designing future market instruments after 2013. we know that the situation - apart from the milk sector - is critical in other sectors, particularly important ones, which differ from geographical area to geographical area within europe.
acting president of the council. - madam president, i would like to make three points as a conclusion on our part of this important debate. the first was raised by mr weber when he spoke of the possibility and the desirability of a pnr, a european pnr system, and what scope it could have. we are in favour of a general regulation on the transfer of passenger data, particularly in air traffic. and in that sense we have asked the commission to carry out a study and, if necessary, to make a proposal for a directive laying down general rules in this respect and including - as the rapporteur's draft resolution, mrs in 't veld, says - a study of the possible impact on privacy. in other words, to what extent does the effectiveness of proportionality, two principles which we have to take into account, have an impact on privacy and, therefore, how far should european regulation go in this respect and what measures should be taken, in any case, to protect fundamental rights. this is what mrs fayot has referred to: what measures should be taken. it seems to me that the debate we have had on swift can shed some light on this. i think the principles we have talked about, the principles we have agreed on, should be present here. we are talking about the rights to privacy, the rights to intimacy, the rights to personality, to self-image, which must always be preserved. fundamental rights are indivisible and in this case we are dealing with something which could violate fundamental rights and i think we must act with the same care as we have spoken about in the previous debate. and finally, a third consideration i should like to make in connection with the foregoing. as a general reflection, it does not seem to me that security and freedom are two opposing principles, that is to say, that it is a kind of zero-sum game and that, to the extent that we give more security, we will have less freedom, or to the extent that we protect more fundamental rights and freedoms and are fundamentalists in the protection of fundamental rights, we will have less security. i think this is a false dilemma. i believe that security and freedom are two principles which reinforce each other and both principles are therefore expressed and recognised as principles which form part of the constitutions, of european laws and are also both present in the treaty of lisbon. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we therefore believe that when we look beyond the short term, because we sometimes act with a strong short-term bias, and think in the long term, measures to protect our security will always prove to be prudent and reasonable, and effective, and the protection of rights and freedoms will always contribute to the well-being and ultimately even to the security of citizens.
member of the commission. − madam president, yes, i have seen the film minority report. it is a good and interesting film, quite scary, and this is not what we are trying do with this. i think this has been a very interesting and constructive debate and i agree that there are similarities with the swift or tftp discussions. it is about fighting serious organised crime and terrorism, but it is also about how we protect the privacy of the individual. it raises questions of data protection, of proportionality, clarification of the purposes, definitions, legal certainties etc. the negotiations on the tftp with our american friends will also give us important experiences that we can bring into the pnr discussions. it will help us further clarify the thinking of the european union and get closer on this, which i think will be helpful. i think the tftp work we have been doing so far between the three institutions has given us experiences on how we can work together – the council, parliament and the commission – on these extremely difficult and sensitive issues. hopefully we will have good results. i have listened carefully to the debate. i have read your resolution. i think it is a very balanced and wise resolution. as i said, we will start working immediately based on that and i am looking forward to good cooperation and discussions with you in working on this. as you know, i had already promised parliament during the course of my hearing that i would carry out an overview of all the anti-terrorist measures we have at our disposal in the european union – to identify them, have a list of them and discuss them with parliament – and also of the overall architecture of all our data information and sharing systems, so that we have this in our mind when we start our work. i think this is important and i think it will increase the transparency and depth of our discussions.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, my colleague, commissioner piebalgs excuses himself. unfortunately he cannot be here with you today, so he has entrusted me with the task of taking this debate with you. thank you for this opportunity to explain the commission’s position on the use of cyanide for gold extraction in the european union. first, as the honourable member knows, we have had a careful and very comprehensive study of the dramatic accident and the causes of it at baia mare in romania in 2000 when a dam retaining toxic substances broke. the conclusions of that study were taken on board when the european union adopted in 2006 a specific directive on the management of extracted waste. the deadline for member states to transpose this was only two years ago and it is still regarded as an up-to-date, proportionate and appropriate approach to the risk of using cyanide. the directive includes several requirements to improve the safety of extractive waste management facilities and limit their impact on the environment. explicit and precise requirements are set on the construction and the management of waste facilities which have to be operated using the ‘best available technique’ concept. a full accident prevention policy is required for the facilities in which toxic substances are treated or stored. emergency plans to be used in case of accidents must be established, not only by the operator but also by the competent authorities. clear information requirements are included in the directive if trans-boundary impacts are expected. this legislation also incorporates requirements for the closure of extraction facilities, and for after closure. it includes the obligation to set up an underwritten financial guarantee for each installation before the beginning of the operation. the directive includes strict maximum limit values of cyanide concentration before this substance is stored in ponds for remaining residues to be broken down by oxidation, sunlight or bacteria. in practice, in order to meet the strict limit values, it is necessary to install specific equipment destroying most of the cyanide before its storage in the pond. to our best knowledge, unfortunately, no adequate alternatives to cyanide use for gold extraction exist on the market. in most european deposits, gold is bound with other metals meaning that a separation method is required. a total cyanide ban would imply stopping european extraction and consequently increase gold imports, often from countries with lower environmental and social standards. nevertheless, the commission is following technology development in the sector and, if alternative techniques emerge in the coming years, the debate might very well be reopened. in the mean time, a good implementation of this directive is essential to guarantee the safety of these facilities and minimise the risk associated with their management. let me also point out that member states are responsible for deciding on whether to open gold mines on their territories. the commission’s role is to ensure full implementation of the directive and good implementation and enforcement is a priority. under the directive, the member states are bound to provide the commission with information on implementation no later than 2012 and we in turn are obliged to analyse and report on this basis. that will obviously be the right time for us to assess the effectiveness of this approach and if, at that point, the current approach were found to be ineffective, we should not rule out the possibility of an outright ban. in conclusion, i would like to insist on the importance of ensuring high waste-recycling rates and improved resource efficiency in the extraction sector. even without considering the use of cyanide, mining for gold is far from kind to the environment. to extract 1 g of gold it is necessary to move and treat, on average, 5 000 kg of ore. the same amount can be obtained through the recycling of approximately 5 kg of old mobile phones. this example illustrates the importance of increasing the separate collection and recycling of waste – in this case electronic and electrical waste which can contain gold and other similar precious metals. this is why resource efficiency is a priority for this commission.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. madam president, this is a very important subject to discuss, because it is a very dangerous material, cyanide. we do not accept what we have heard from the commission spokesman, that there are no non-dangerous techniques. we believe that in greece, since there are three investment projects in the mining of gold with cyanide, they should be dealt with by banning this technique. in evros, rhodes, halkidiki there is a strong reaction from the local communities and there are also decisions from the country's supreme administrative court, the council of state. the threat of the international monetary fund being involved in the crisis in my country raises fears of possible pressure and relaxation of environmental legislation and controls. there are practices and experiences from other countries with tragic results. in greece, the risks also come from the exploitation of gold in bulgaria, which is in the evros watershed. there is also the question of the turkish coast and the related threats to the aegean. similar schemes exist in other countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are not used to the detriment of the people of the union. we call for the weak european union legislation to be made more decisive and for there to be no more different levels of permitted pollutants per member state.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission and the attitude it has taken is lax, the directive is permeable, it does not prevent the dangers to which other colleagues have referred. the importance and impact of the use of cyanide in the mining of metals is well known, and we have the example of romania. the honourable member referred to mining projects currently being developed in greece. in my question to the commission on the establishment of a cyanide gold mine in bulgaria, the commission's reply reinforced my fears and the need for this legislation to be made stricter and its implementation more decisive. we are sure that the citizens will obviously react, but we must also act. we therefore join our voice with all those who call for a total ban on the use of cyanide in the extraction of precious metals, and all countries should, as hungary recently did, commit themselves to this ban.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the nuclear safety of the community is not compromised. but in 2000 the second greatest environmental disaster in the history of europe - and perhaps the world - was caused by the baia mare accident in romania, which many colleagues have mentioned. 100,000 cubic meters of water with very high concentrations of cyanide and other heavy metals leaked from a gold mining plant into the tisla river and thence into the danube, affecting all but romania, hungary and serbia, killing tens of thousands of fish and poisoning drinking water. the contamination of the food chain in the directly affected areas has been longstanding. hungary reported 1,367 tonnes of dead fish. over 100 people, mostly children, were poisoned and immediately hospitalized after eating the contaminated fish. however, gold mining using cyanide solutions not only continues, not only is it not prohibited at european level, but the investments involved are subsidized by the member states and the european union. mining is ongoing or planned to start in sweden, finland, slovakia, romania, bulgaria and greece, while it is prohibited by law in hungary, the czech republic and by case law in germany. the time has now passed when we exchanged jobs at the expense of the local environment and the health of the citizens. the economic viability of this activity would also collapse if we were to apply the principle of prevention and the polluter pays principle. any economic activity is welcome, provided it is compatible with the protection of the environment and the health of citizens. but when we use cyanide, we put the environment and the health of the citizens at irreparable risk. commissioner malmström, can you assure us that we have sufficient and strong legislation and that a new baia mare will not be repeated this time in sweden, finland, bulgaria or greece? i would ask the commission to show that it is honouring the commitments it made to the european parliament just two months ago. i join the voices of the local communities who suffer the most and the struggles of the environmental movements in calling for an immediate ban on the use of cyanide in gold mining within the european union.
madam president, madam commissioner, the gold is there, it will not escape. the question of when, by what technique and with what environmental impact we will decide to mine it is what we are called upon to discuss. if a cyanide deposit is used, the effects are irreversible, because the gold is gone and the deposits of cyanide-containing dangerous toxic substances, as the directive itself states, remain in large quantities in the mining area. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the introduction of new fishing vessels. the current directive has one drawback: the financial guarantee provided does not cover all the effects in the event of an accident, in particular after the closure of the installations concerned. the basic principle of 'the polluter pays' is therefore violated, especially since the companies using this technique are mainly non-european and when the extraction is over, they wave the handkerchief and leave. there should therefore be a serious review of alternative extraction methods and a re-establishment of the basic 'polluter pays' principle with full and reliable insurance cover in the event of an accident, now and for as long as these dangerous substances remain trapped in the earth. as long as these conditions are not met, i believe that there should be a complete ban on this technology, which will perhaps also give incentives for companies to seriously investigate alternative, less polluting techniques, because if you have a cheap method that you do not pay for its pollution, you have no reason to investigate the alternatives.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on 22 april 2010. the minutes of the meeting of 22 april 2010 have been distributed. are there any comments on these? (parliament adopted the minutes of the previous sitting)
i would like to inform the house that during this part-session there will be a number of additional special equipment imaging technicians in the chamber. these technicians will record our debates and votes in order to produce a 360o panoramic film of the workings of parliament. the film will be shown as part of the permanent exhibition on the work of the parliament in an interactive model of the plenary chamber in the new visitor centre in brussels. i have received clear assurances that the presence of the technicians will be extremely discreet and will not in any way impede the conduct of our work. thank you for your understanding.
the final draft agenda, drawn up in accordance with rules 140 and 155 of the rules of procedure by the conference of presidents at its last meeting, has been distributed. in agreement with the political groups, i propose the following amendments to the agenda for this week's plenary session: wednesday 5 may 2010: firstly, the joint debate on the two reports by mr íñigo méndez de vigo on the composition of parliament will be the first item on the agenda. secondly, a new item is added to the agenda, 'statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the summit of heads of state or government of the euro area on 7 may', without a resolution. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. thirdly, the title 'statements by the council and the commission on the standardisation of electric vehicles' is amended to 'statements by the council and the commission on electric vehicles'. fourthly, the report by vittorio prodi, which was scheduled to be outlined today, is postponed for a direct vote at the time of the vote on thursday 6 may 2010. thursday 6 may 2010: firstly, the vote on the report by mr vital moreira on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the granting of macrofinancial assistance to ukraine is postponed to the may part-session. secondly, the vote on the motion for a resolution on the draft commission regulation laying down guidelines for the establishment of a compensation mechanism between transmission system operators and a common approach to the pricing of electricity transmission is withdrawn from the agenda. are there any comments on these? (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (the order of business is determined as follows)
the next item on the agenda is the votes. (for details of the votes, see minutes) there is one proposal for change in the voting today: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the presidency therefore proposes that the vote on this matter be postponed until the next partsession.
the next item on the agenda is the votes. (for the results and other information on the vote, see minutes)
all these comments will be examined for accuracy.
in writing. the positive vote on the europeana programme means support for the effort to digitize the cultural heritage of the european countries. it is, however, very important to note that the aim is to protect the actual electronic form of the works without giving the user the possibility of modifying them. in short, the aim is not to develop another internet search engine but a site that will be both a museum, a library and a source of scientific knowledge. the digitisation of cultural heritage, however, cannot be achieved without the help of the member states and national bodies. unfortunately, today 47% of europeana's content comes from france, while countries that should have a strong presence given their rich cultural heritage, such as greece, represent only a small percentage of the digitized archives. in addition, particular attention should be paid to the protection of copyright. digitalisation means free access for citizens to knowledge and science and in no case a new field of action for cyber piracy and hacking.
in writing. the new digital agenda for europe is a very optimistic programme for the dissemination of new technologies and fast connections in the member states and that is why i voted in favour of it. however, beyond the enlightening principles it expresses, such as increasing mobile speeds and familiarizing citizens with new technologies, some goals seem particularly difficult to achieve. in particular, the target that all schools in the european union should have high-speed internet by 2015, while highly desirable, seems difficult to achieve due to objective factors (for example, in isolated mountain and island countries, high speeds are difficult to achieve immediately). the new european agenda for digitisation should therefore be supported as soon as possible by a series of coordinated actions and initiatives, such as more generous community funding, to ensure better internet access even for students who are geographically disadvantaged.
in writing. the liberadzki report 'on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2008, section iii commission and executive agencies' adopts particularly negative characteristics for greece on a number of issues ranging from the distortion of fiscal statistics to the indefinite classification of the country as having general corruption. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, this was not possible and that is why i voted against the liberadzki report as a whole.
in writing. i voted against this resolution because it does not reject the massive exchange of data with the united states and other countries in the context of the so-called fight against terrorism. it also fails to promote the need for an international binding agreement between the eu and the us on the framework for exchange of information for law enforcement purposes. finally, while the european parliament must give its consent to the proposed agreement, it is unacceptable that negotiations, however informal, should have been launched without its full and equal participation.
in writing. the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's policy on the environment. the aim of parliament is to set out the minimum rules for promoting transatlantic cooperation leading to the fight against terrorism and the creation of a transmission system that can be trusted by the citizens of the union. one of the most sensitive points of the negotiations, to which particular attention must be paid, is the reduction in the volume of data transferred. to achieve this, the new agreement should include a series of safeguards aimed at respecting european legislation on the protection of personal data of european citizens. the resolution also stresses the importance of providing eu citizens with a better mechanism for appealing to courts to protect their rights more effectively.
in writing. the creation of a single model for passenger statuses to be applied to pnr agreements with all the countries concerned and the postponement of the vote on the request for approval of the agreements with the usa and australia appear to be the best possible solution. a hasty approach leading to a possible no vote on the pnr agreements with the usa and australia would have the effect of stopping the flow of data and perhaps this would mean cancellation of landing rights with disastrous consequences for the air carriers. the joint resolution tabled today by all the groups in parliament, which i also supported, rightly states that pnr agreements must take account of minimum standards which are not subject to negotiation. the safety of passengers is a paramount objective, but this cannot be achieved at the expense of respect for their privacy and the protection of their personal data. the collection of passenger data in a restricted manner is of paramount importance for the transmission of passenger data and should always be based on the principle of proportionality and necessity.
in writing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the use of cyanide in the mining industry is not restricted to the production of cyanide, but that it is also used in the production of other products. the commission has so far taken a very lax approach to this matter and this must change immediately. the issue concerns many countries, the health of european citizens and the protection of the environment. the cases and history of the consequences of the use of cyanide in metallurgy, as has occurred in romania and other countries, are well known and cause for concern. the commission's reply to my question on the recent decision to set up a cyanide-based gold mine in bulgaria has increased our fears. unfortunately, the use of cyanide seems possible at the moment in northern greece with three investment projects by foreign companies. finally, the commission must propose a complete ban on the use of cyanide in the eu within the next six months, with a view to implementing it by the end of 2012 at the latest. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the use of cyanide in the manufacture of certain products.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, thank you very much. we try to embellish the numbers and it is well known that when the numbers prosper, people are unhappy. we have to find a balance, and the numbers to balance and the happiness of the people to give and to keep. as a result of this unorthodox behaviour, today in greece we mourn the death of three workers who were killed by the aggressive protest of other workers. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union, and it is not surprising that the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. in greece, there is a very bad mood among the popular strata towards politicians: we have 300 members in the greek parliament, i hear the pulse of greek society saying "hang the 300". these are dangerous things. i am reading the same things and the same discrediting of politics that has come to other countries in the european community, and we all know this, as we all know that we must preserve democracy. with this data and with this thinking, because i cannot and do not have the time to expand further, what i would like to stress is that the leaders of the day after tomorrow will have to move faster, and in the direction of a more permanent solution, for more countries. greece is the one, it's the tip of the iceberg. but there are other states - both eurozone and non-eurozone - that are facing economic problems that will become more acute in the coming months.
mr president, thank you. i would like to refer to something that mr salavrakos said earlier, namely that three people, three workers, were killed today in athens by three other workers. that's totally wrong. these people were killed by murderers, by criminals. the workers in athens today had a long peaceful march. they didn't kill anyone. the real criminals were condemned by the prime minister, george papandreou, and all the political parties in the house a few hours ago. it is a grave mistake and a dangerous mistake to confuse peaceful demonstrations with criminal acts such as those which took place in athens. they are condemned by all and do not express either the greek worker or the conviction of all that unitedly and patriotically we will get the country out of this crisis.
mr president, thank you very much. let me first of all express my deep regret as a greek for the tragic events that have occurred today in my country and which have resulted in the deaths of three citizens who were trapped in a bank when extremist elements who had infiltrated a large but entirely peaceful demonstration set it on fire. i would therefore like to ask all my colleagues here, on this tragic occasion and because i know that the whole of europe and all the european media are watching greece today, to show responsibility, seriousness, solidarity and above all respect for a people who are going through very difficult times. i say this, ladies and gentlemen, because i fear that from tomorrow onwards some of the major european newspapers in certain capitals will be quick to claim, on the basis of these tragic events, that their fears and doubts about whether greece is determined and able to carry out the very difficult decisions it has taken on budgetary adjustment are justified. because, the day after the agreement of last sunday, the same story began again as we have been witnessing since 11 february, with a series of comments on the ineffectiveness of the greek measures, on the prospect of restructuring the greek debt, with the possibility of even the country leaving the euro area and, of course, with new attacks from the markets against not only greek bonds but also portuguese and spanish bonds. and i wonder, ladies and gentlemen, as we are also discussing the prospects for the strategy for 2020, where this will go. where will this absolute dependence of national economies on market crises, on the ratings of credit rating agencies that are not accountable to anyone, there is absolutely no consequence and control for their ratings, whether they are right or wrong, whether they concern companies or states and even euro area member states. (applause from the centre and the right)
mr president, i would first like to express my condolences from this podium of the european parliament for the three compatriots who were killed today in the events in athens. i am very sorry that i did not hear president barroso offer the commission's condolences. i hope that mr rehn, who represents him, will do so in his second part. the second point i want to make is that you must hurry to the commission, because the longer you delay in solving the problems facing europe today, and therefore the problem of greece, the more you undermine the 2020 objectives. 2020 is based on 2010. the goal of reducing poverty is based on today. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. you have to help greece because otherwise the 40% that should be the new graduates of the universities will not have a job. think about it and hurry.
acting president of the council. - mr president, i should like to begin by answering the direct question put to me by mr bokros. mr cofferati, who is not in the chamber at the moment, has also referred to this, as has mrs del castillo, who is not in the chamber either. other people have referred to it. why has the lisbon strategy failed? that was the direct question mr bokros asked. well, i think there are probably many reasons and it would be a bit excessive and arrogant to want to simplify it, but if i had to choose one of those reasons, it seems to me that the most definitive explanation for this lack of success in the lisbon strategy is that the european union - which approved the single market at the time, which approved a single currency - has not taken that step which needs to be taken towards economic union. that step has not been taken. the maastricht treaty spoke of economic and monetary union. we have stayed in monetary union, we have not moved to economic union. and that is why i believe that the europe 2020 strategy must be inscribed precisely in a new stage of the union, which is the step towards economic union. economic union means, first and foremost, economic and social governance of the union. a fundamental element of this economic union is a strategy for growth and the creation of quality jobs, which is essentially the subject of this debate; a debate which, moreover, i found very interesting and extremely rich in contributions and which also has new, important dimensions that were not in the lisbon strategy, or not with that emphasis. for example, the technological or social dimension referred to by mr cofferati, mr cercas and mr arif, and a dimension of combating climate change, which i link to what mrs schroedter said. not only that, but it is possible to achieve economic union by having a strategy of growth and quality job creation. not only that. and with that i would reply to mrs harms, who is not present in this chamber. because there is also something missing which commissioner olli rehn - who will speak next - is working on and which i referred to earlier. we need a coordination of economic, employment and social policies which has not been achieved in europe and which was not achieved with the lisbon strategy. and it is something that the treaty of lisbon obliges us to do. article 5 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union states that the member states of the union must, are obliged - not have the power - to coordinate their economic and employment policies. and they could also, if they wished - in my view they should - coordinate their social policies. in addition to this, in addition to a strategy for growth and job creation and in addition to coordination of economic and employment policies, we need european supervision of the financial markets, and that is the supervision package to which i referred earlier and to which i had a reply from mr verhofstadt. i am very glad that he is in favour of parliament adopting his position on the financial supervision package as soon as possible. and, in addition to that, something that mr barroso has particularly emphasized in his speech: we need to have an external dimension. europe's economic union must have an external dimension, a single position towards the outside, namely the g20. i refer to the words of mr barroso, with which i agree almost entirely. and in order to have an economic union, we also need governance institutions: a european council that sets the strategic lines, a commission that monitors, monitors and implements this strategy, and legislative bodies for this strategy: the council and the european parliament. and, in addition, instruments to give a positive incentive to this strategy, such as the authorization of the structural funds and european funds to guide this strategy, something which has not exactly happened, or at least not very much, during the years of the lisbon strategy. this is what i believe is already under way in the european union: a step towards the next stage, the one required by the 21st century, the stage of globalisation, which is economic union. not just the internal market, not just monetary union, but economic union too. that is the way we must go, and we must do so consistently, with interinstitutional dialogue, as is happening here this afternoon, and with the utmost speed. i believe that this is what all of us citizens of europe are asking for.
member of the commission. − madam president, let me thank you for a very rich and responsible debate this evening and let me also correct one claim concerning president barroso. he did express his condolences on behalf of the commission. i want to join him and express my condolences to the families and friends of the victims of violence in athens today. disagreement in democracy is normal, but recourse to violence is never acceptable. sustainable growth and job creation is indeed at the heart of europe 2020 and i want to say some words about financial stability, which is a necessary condition of returning to sustainable growth and to the goals of europe 2020. you may call it ‘europe 2010’, because we need that in order to succeed as europe 2020. the decision of the euro-area member states last sunday to activate the mechanism of coordinated and conditional financial assistance for greece was not an easy decision, but a necessary decision. it was the responsible and right thing to do. the commission’s task now is to ensure that the bilateral launch will be coordinated and that conditionality will be systematically and rigorously applied. the financial support gives greece breathing space to restore the sustainability of its public finances, as well as its overall economic competitiveness. this is needed not only for greece, but in order to safeguard financial stability in europe, to avoid the bush-fire in greece turning into a forest fire in europe. financial stability is necessary for europe’s ongoing economic recovery for sustainable growth and job creation. some of you mentioned the contagion effect and concerns related to other countries of the euro area or of the european union. no one can deny that there have been tensions in the financial markets in recent days and weeks but, as in all financial markets, there is significant overshooting. all euro-area member states are taking measures to consolidate their public finances, not least portugal and spain. greece is a unique and particular case in the euro area, and now the european union. specifically, the euro-area member states, together with the commission, ecb and imf, are taking care of the greek case. i am confident that we will succeed and overcome the formidable challenges. we must also learn the lessons of the crisis; that is important for economic governance of europe 2020. the latest developments in the european economy, not least around greece, have shown that there is a pressing and urgent need to strengthen economic governance in europe. next week the commission will make concrete proposals on how we can reinforce economic policy coordination and member states budgetary surveillance in the european union. in the economic and monetary union the ‘m’ has been much stronger than the ‘e’. it is high time to fill the ‘e’ with life. this was also the underlying idea of the founding fathers of the economic and monetary union. our guiding principle is that prevention is always more effective than correction and, therefore, we will build our proposals on the basis of reinforcing prevention, as well as correction also. the main building blocks of our proposals are threefold. firstly, we need to reinforce the stability and growth pact, both its preventive and corrective arms. we need a more systematic and rigorous preventive budgetary surveillance, so that cases like the greek case will never happen again. secondly, we must go beyond budgetary surveillance. we need to address macro-economic imbalances and divergences in competitiveness and, therefore, we need to reinforce both export competitiveness, which is urgently needed in many countries, and domestic demand where needed and possible. the third building block will be a crisis-resolution mechanism. the financial mechanism for greece serves the immediate need for the current purposes. however, it is clear and necessary that we need to set up a permanent crisis resolution mechanism with strong in-built conditionalities and also disincentives for its use. as president barroso said earlier today, it is better to be safe than sorry, and ensure that we are also equipped to face the worst scenarios. in conclusion, i count on your support. i count on the european parliament to support reinforcing economic governance in europe. i also call on the heads of state and government of the euro-area member states on friday, as well as the european council more broadly, to support our proposals and proceed rapidly without delay in making these proposals effective and a reality. why so? because we have no luxury of time and, instead, i urge everyone to take decisions as soon as possible, so that we can make europe 2020 a success and create real foundations for sustainable growth and job creation in europe. that is what our citizens are expecting from us.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the may part-session. (the sitting was suspended for five minutes for technical reasons) written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
in writing. i would like to express my satisfaction with the march council conclusions because they recognise the importance of cohesion policy in the context of europe 2020 and thus fill the important gap that existed in the commission's original text where there was no reference to cohesion policy. the commission has also been active in the area of the environment, and has been involved in the preparation of the european council's annual report on the environment. the contribution of cohesion policy to boosting competitiveness and employment, in particular through earmarking, has been decisive and what has been built up in this context cannot be left unused. however, this does not mean that cohesion policy will be reduced to a mere tool for implementing europe 2020. her potential is much wider. as a practical expression of the principle of solidarity at local and regional level, it guarantees the viability of development initiatives, ensures that europe 2020 serves the eu's overall objective of strengthening cohesion in all its three dimensions, economic, social and territorial, and is not limited to unilateral economic growth. finally, the potential of cohesion policy must be exploited to avoid overlapping objectives and funding between different european policies.
the meeting is still in session. the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on the agreement on the accession of the european union to the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms (2010/2647 (rsp))
acting president of the council. - madam president, today in athens three people have lost the first human right, which is life. it has been the result of violent acts which we condemn absolutely, categorically. the spanish presidency of the council, on behalf of the council, wishes to express its condolences and sympathy to the families and therefore supports the statement made by the president of this parliament. we are talking about human rights, accession to the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, one of which, as i said, is the right to life and physical integrity. the european union is founded on human rights and freedoms and throughout its existence, in the texts that have been adopted, there has been a constant reference to fundamental rights and freedoms. the treaty of lisbon is the culmination of this. the lisbon treaty, on the one hand, incorporates for the first time in european history a legally binding charter of fundamental rights of the citizens of europe and, on the other hand, tells the institutions that the union will be party to the european convention for the protection of human rights. we are therefore witnessing the culmination of a political, cultural and legal journey of the union on human rights, which the union places at the heart of its policies, at the heart of its action, at the heart of its personality. in this context, it seems to us of the utmost importance that the european union has already started the procedure for being able to sign the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in due course, which means, among other things, accepting the jurisdiction of the strasbourg court of human rights; and means increasing the guarantees for citizens and, so to speak, a kind of rapprochement, convergence between the systems of human rights and freedoms that coexist in europe: the national systems - the guarantees that exist in each european country, which are democratic countries that respect and defend human rights - the european union's system and the european convention for the protection of human rights, which is another legal system to which not only the members of the european union but also other european countries, even if they are not part of the union, belong. we are therefore witnessing a process of convergence of these legal systems and the expression of this will be the signing of this convention by the european union. on 17 march the commission presented a recommendation to open negotiations for the union's accession to the convention. and the council has since done its utmost to speed up the discussions on the negotiating mandate. there is a working group in the council which is developing these discussions in close cooperation with the european commission. the council has taken very much into account all the mandates contained in protocol 8, which is the legal reference in this respect. for example, the possible participation of the union in the control bodies of the european convention or the need to respect the union's competences and the powers of the institutions. the need to appoint a european union judge to the court in due course, the involvement of this parliament in the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe, and also the union's involvement in the committee of ministers when it exercises functions relating to the application of the european convention on human rights. the council has also followed very closely the debates and hearings held by this european parliament in march this year and is taking very much into account the views expressed by the european parliament in the draft report drawn up by the rapporteurs, mr ramón jáuregui atondo, mr kinga gál and mr cristian dan preda. the spanish presidency's forecast, the council's position, is that the mandate for negotiations with the european council, which will be time-consuming and of a technical and complex nature, will be adopted before the end of the first half of 2010.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, my colleague olli rehn has already expressed the position and the condolences of the commission concerning the greek disaster, so let me just look at how we can advance with our work because this will be of the utmost importance for completing the system of protection of fundamental rights within the union, and the accession of the eu to the european convention on human rights, which is enshrined in the lisbon treaty, is not an option. it is a destination, as the presidency so well expressed it just now, but this accession is only one of the four elements of a very ambitious and comprehensive fundamental rights policy at the level of the european union. first of all, with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the charter of fundamental rights is legally binding, and this legally binding charter is the most modern qualification of fundamental rights in the world in terms of political commitment for fundamental rights, of legibility and of legal certainty, and it entrenches all the rights found in the convention. the meaning and scope of these rights are the same as those laid down by the convention, but the charter goes further. in it we find, for example, the so-called third generation of fundamental rights: data protection, guarantees on bioethics, on good and transparent administration. the level of protection provided by the charter must always be at least as high as that of the convention. in many cases it goes beyond. secondly, there is the promotion of fundamental rights as a priority of the stockholm programme, setting the strategic guidelines for developing an area of freedom, security and justice in europe. thirdly, there is the creation of a new portfolio – justice, fundamental rights and citizenship – which shows how much importance the commission attaches to strengthening the action of the commission in this area. then, fourthly, the accession of the eu to the convention. it will guarantee that any person claiming to be a victim of a violation of the convention by an institution or by a body of the union is able to bring a complaint against the union before the strasbourg court under the same conditions as those applying to complaints brought against member states. in political terms accession means that the european union reaffirms the pivotal role played by the convention’s system for the protection of human rights in europe – in an enlarged europe, not only in the european union – but by acceding to this convention the european union puts its weight behind the strasbourg system, and this is a system of external judicial control in the area of fundamental rights because now we are submitting our legal order fully and formally to that control. this, of course, will enhance the credibility both internally and externally of the eu’s very strong commitment to fundamental rights. by mid-march the commission had proposed a negotiation mandate to the council. protocol 8 of the lisbon treaty requires a certain number of substantive guarantees to be provided for in an agreement relating to accession because we have to preserve the specific characteristics of union law and the commission’s recommendation to the council takes full account of these requirements. i just want to mention two of them. it is clear that the union’s competence and powers, as defined in the treaties, may not be affected by the accession, and the provision in the accession agreement will have to make this very clear. likewise, the accession of the european union may not affect either the situation of individual member states in relation to the european court of human rights or the protocols there or the reservations. the negotiations should therefore ensure that the accession agreement creates obligations under the substantive provisions of the conventions only with regard to acts and measures adopted by the institutions or by the bodies of the union. now the commission is seeking a smooth insertion of the european union into the system of the convention. the accession should therefore preserve the substantive and procedural features of that system. however, the accession must meet two requirements. first, as i said already, the specific characteristics of the law of the european union have to be preserved; safeguarding the court of justice and its prerogatives following accession is an important issue. there are interesting proposals on the table which aim at involving the court of justice in situations where the compatibility of a legal act of the union is at stake before the strasbourg court, without a preliminary reference having been made. these proposals can probably be designed in such a way as not to require a treaty amendment and they deserve careful analysis and discussion in the council working party. i know that the spanish presidency is doing everything in order to bring these discussions forward. second, it is important to deal with the specific situation of the union as a distinct legal entity, vested with autonomous powers, which will become a contracting party side-by-side with the member states to a mechanism which was not, initially, designed for this purpose – but it was designed for the member states – and therefore a limited number of technical and procedural adaptations to the conventions are necessary with regard to the specific nature of union law. among these is the so-called ‘co-respondent mechanism’. it is of particular importance to take account of the decentralised implementation of union law by member states. by that mechanism the union will receive the right to join the proceedings as a co-respondent in cases brought against a member state when union law is at stake. from an institutional point of view i would also like to stress the commission’s position that representatives of the european union should participate in the bodies of the convention on an equal footing with the representatives of other contracting parties. that means, for instance, that a judge elected for each contracting party is one of the founding principles of the convention. this principle ensures that each legal system is represented within the court; it is also a reflection of the collective guarantee system established by the convention in which each contracting party is required to participate, and that means that we need a permanent full judge elected by the union who enjoys the same status and has the same duties as his peers and who intervenes potentially in all cases. an ad hoc judge who intervenes only in cases brought against the union or involving union law would not be sufficient. as for the method of electing this judge, the normal procedure provided for in the convention should also apply here. this means that the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe elects such a judge from a list of three candidates presented by the european union. we believe that an appropriate number of members of the european parliament should be allowed to participate in sessions of the parliamentary assembly when it elects the judges of the strasbourg court. i would like to thank the rapporteurs of the afco and libe committees, mr jáuregui and mrs gál, for their excellent cooperation on the file, and the hearing which was organised by the afco committee on 18 march was really of great use. i am also happy that the spanish presidency of the council gave high priority to this file. i am therefore confident that we will be able to start the negotiations on accession after the summer. i will ensure that the commission, as the union’s negotiator, will keep parliament fully informed throughout the negotiation process. madam president, i do not believe that it is necessary on such a day to underline once more how important fundamental rights are for europe and how important they are for all the acts we are proposing. i am sure the union will not find it difficult to meet the standards of the convention, but adhering to the convention will certainly enhance the protection of fundamental rights in europe, and by this i mean of each and every single human being who lives in europe.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, i fully endorse the statements made by mr lópez garrido on behalf of the spanish presidency and by mrs reding on behalf of the vice-president and i would like to congratulate mr jáuregui atondo and mrs gál on their proposals and the work they have done. the accession of the european union to the european convention of the council of europe and its protocols implements the treaty of lisbon and extends the protection of human rights to its citizens. this creates a pan-european system for the protection of fundamental freedoms and human rights, based on the case law of the european court of human rights in strasbourg, and at the same time, in addition to external protection, the european union acquires an external body of protection with an international character, thus strengthening its credibility also vis-à-vis third countries, which it often requires, in bilateral relations, to respect the european convention on human rights. madam president, the debate on human rights and fundamental freedoms today coincides with the murder of three citizens, workers, by extremist and marginal elements in my country, in athens, during protests against the government's measures concerning the economic crisis. i would like to add to my own and my colleagues in the main opposition in greece's distress and pain that our political group is determined to make a substantial contribution to safeguarding democracy and the smooth functioning of the institutions. ladies and gentlemen, we respect the money given to us at this critical moment by our partners and the international monetary fund and we are committed to contributing to the necessary adjustments to overcome this crisis. as a responsible party we will contribute to the effort to protect the order and unity of the greek people by isolating the extremist elements that undermine our democracy.
mr president, first of all i would like to express my deep sorrow at the loss of three greek citizens today in greece, in the context of peaceful demonstrations by greek citizens for a better future. some, operating marginally, some operating undemocratically, have so unjustly taken the lives of our fellow citizens. it is a tragic irony that we are discussing today the strengthening and deepening of the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms of european citizens by our accession to the european convention on human rights. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against pollution. solidarity between the member states, solidarity between the peoples, a solidarity which we so badly need at this time in greece.
mr president, millions of workers went on strike and demonstrated today with pame against the barbaric measures imposed by capital, the greek government, the european union and the imf. these measures are neither new nor temporary. they are a brutal application of capitalist development leading to crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they are included in the lisbon and europe 2020 strategy. that's why they're leading to a dead end. but we say there is a solution. this is not a one-way street. it is the reorganization of the labour movement and a development that is driven by the needs of those who produce wealth. it's the socialization of monopolies and popular power. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we believe that the course of the struggles of the greek people will be victorious.
mr president, some hours ago i would have said that, in spite of the tasteless distortion of cultural emblems and despite articles of ambiguous objectivity referring to outdated stereotypes, although the council failed to apprehend the greek economic crisis as a major european issue and the commission failed to use it as a crash test for european cohesion, the greek people were ready to support their new socialist government in their struggle for economic and social recovery. now, in light of the tragic events of the last few hours in athens, where three people died because of the violence which arose due to the hard economic measures, i recall mr rasmussen’s recent words: the downgrading of greece’s sovereign credit to junk status is an indictment of the policy of prevarication. i think that it is most urgent for the members of the european parliament to strengthen their struggle for cohesion. i hope that what happened to greece today just a few hours ago will not be contagious, and i hope that this may mark, on the contrary, the beginning of a unanimous effort for the formation of the european identity through solidarity and through partnership.
first of all, i would like to express my condolences to the families of the victims of today's attacks in athens. returning to the issue of climate change, the 35,000 representatives of indigenous peoples from around the world who met in cochabamba, bolivia, put their finger on the tip of the spear. they're asking us to commit to the mexico conference in a legally binding way to reduce our emissions. they're right. we can no longer postpone this decision. the european union must immediately make a formal commitment to reduce emissions by 30% by 2020. this will change the dynamic in the negotiations which, it is true, are now stuck, with the risk of postponing the decision on reducing emissions after mexico and without a specific date, without a specific timetable. and in parliament we can do much more. a 30% reduction in the european parliament's footprint by 2020 has already been decided. we must show the way to the member states by reducing our footprint by 50%. we all know that there is a great deal of scope for saving energy in our daily workplace and reducing our environmental footprint, and we can and must do this.
mr president, there is no doubt that the european investment bank has been successful in its 52 years of operation, particularly in achieving and strengthening the objectives of the european union, in financing small and mediumsized enterprises, which are the backbone of european union enterprises, and are the backbone of those enterprises which must be maintained in the context of the current economic crisis in order to preserve jobs and thus social stability in the union. the european union is facing the greek crisis. i do not know, of course, whether the historian of the future will call it a 'greek crisis' or an 'economic crisis' or perhaps even a 'monetary crisis'. i'm sure that if galileo were alive today he wouldn't say the earth spins, he would say "the earth runs". the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that we all here believe that the smooth running of the union requires an acceleration in the completion of its political and economic integration. in this context, i believe that the eib has the know-how and the objective capacity to undertake other actions and i propose - addressing this proposal in particular to mr olli rehn, whom i particularly appreciate for the seriousness with which he approaches the various issues - to consider the possibility of the future role of the eib in the european credit rating agency of the member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, before i welcome president maystadt to the european parliament and congratulate him on the successful activities of the european investment bank and its ambitious business plan, i would like to express my sorrow at the arson attack in athens yesterday which killed three of my fellow citizens at their workplace and also to express my sincere condolences to their families. there is no doubt, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, that the present economic crisis has also highlighted the important work of the european investment bank. the additional financial support from the eib has enabled rapid savings and helped to support the real economy, in particular by protecting beneficial projects and helping viable businesses in these extremely difficult times. the eib's role in the competitiveness in europe flagship programme was also key, where, through the jaspers and jeremie initiatives, the eib promoted even more tools to make a real contribution to supporting innovation. mr president, the eib's role is becoming increasingly important, not only in the context of the cohesion objectives but also in the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. through the smart financial engineering tools it is constantly developing with the latest elena (european local energy assistance) initiative, it is expected to make a decisive contribution to boosting employment through significant investments in areas such as sustainability and security of energy supply with a direct impact on local economic development and improving the quality of life of citizens.
in writing. supporting the development of electric vehicles can have multiple benefits. the promotion of electric cars will make a significant contribution to combating climate change by moving to cleaner and more advanced technologies, promoting innovation and reducing our energy dependence. the development of this technology also includes aspects that should be given due attention, such as the removal of administrative and other obstacles that may negatively affect the circulation of green cars, but also the provision of incentives for retraining those employed in the automotive sector in order to acquire the necessary skills. i think that the resolution is a very balanced text because it touches on all the above issues and that is why i voted in favour of it.
mr president, apart from the pressure of budgetary figures, the uncertainty of the euro area... (the president interrupted the speaker and asked for silence in the chamber. )
mr president, apart from the pressure of budgetary volumes, the insecurity of the euro area is also the result of the abundant political rhetoric of european institutional and political actors. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. of course we want a balanced budget for europe ! at the same time, it is time for european political union to steer economic union itself through a comprehensive strategy for overcoming the crisis. to establish a more effective regulatory framework for the functioning of financial markets and the protection of the euro against speculative pressures. i would like to mention, by way of example, the need to revise the market abuse directive. in the same context, i reiterate my proposal for the establishment of a european credit rating agency.
the next item is the report by astrid lulling, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women engaged in an activity in a self-employed capacity and repealing directive 86/613/eec (17279/3/2009 c7-0075/2010 2008/0192 ((cod)) (a7-0146/2010).
mrs. lulling, i don't mean to interrupt, but you're entitled to four minutes now and two minutes at the end. so you have one minute left to finish.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 18 may 2010. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the recommendation for second reading by silvia-adriana ţicău, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the energy performance of buildings (recast) (05386/3/2010 c7-0095/2010 2008/0223 ((cod)) (a7-0124/2010).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 18 may 2010. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr toine manders, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on textile names and related labelling (com ((2009) 0031 c6-0048/2009 2009/0006 cod)) (a7-0122/2010).
mr president, there is an expression that says that a man's life hangs in the balance. so imagine, if this thread is not strong, if it is not made of the right material, life will be lost. i say this to make it clear that the threads and the threads are of very great importance. but this is not just a technical issue. we are not discussing a technical report here. i think that the very good report drawn up by mr manders, and i thank him for it, has a political dimension, a dimension which affects the trader and the manufacturer: the regulation will make his job easier and faster. a political dimension concerning the consumer and, consequently, the internal market. a political dimension that concerns morality. we need to know where the product's hood is coming from. where is it coming from? this "made in"... is not technical. it is mainly, i would say, highly political. when we know where a product comes from, we have information about how it is made, how labor is used there, whether workers' rights are respected. and we, as citizens of the european union, are not technocrats with our eyes closed. we are people who think, legislate and act on behalf of other people. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. i think that your contribution will play a very important part in this.
mr president, i really want to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent report. it is true that the differences in the sanctions, the types of sanctions, the fines, the classification of offences - and this is where i want to emphasize this intervention - in each member state are great. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are not used to the detriment of the community's own resources. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in greece there are many and frequent accidents, there are many infringements, and it is clear that if we do not succeed in coordinating legislation at european level, if we do not succeed in harmonizing practices and, finally, if we do not succeed in making checks more specific and more coordinated at european level, then unfortunately we will not be able to reduce this great problem. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. the corrective budget is the result of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. parliament has faced new challenges and so must have the means to respond successfully to these new responsibilities and challenges. i would like to stress that the european citizens expect parliament to perform its duties to the best of its ability and, to ensure this, it is important that its members, committees and political groups are given the necessary means. we also believe that budgetary discipline and the pursuit of cutting costs are more necessary than ever at this time - and rightly so, the european citizens expect it of us - and that is why we have drawn up a budget that guarantees budgetary rigor and transparency. we also insist on the need for long-term planning in the european parliament's building policy, with a view to ensuring adequate budgetary support both now and in the years to come. we are confident that these measures will help us to be able to respond to the concerns, expectations and demands of the citizens of europe. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate my colleague mr vladimir manka on his excellent work on this report.
member of the commission. − madam president, i should like to thank mr coelho and mr alvaro for their contributions, and thank you for the very constructive cooperation we have had on this extremely complicated file that i inherited. it is very complicated, but i am determined to work together with you in order to get this right in a transparent way and to see the project completed. the vote tomorrow is very timely for the sis ii project. the council has confirmed that the milestone i test was successful and that the development of sis ii should continue on the basis of current technical solutions. the legislative proposals before you contained three substantial elements: mr coelho made reference to them, and that will change the development of the project. first, as mr coelho said, the initial expiry date of the instruments – 30 june this year – has become unrealistic and will therefore be changed. this will allow the sis ii project to continue in the light of technical requirements and a global schedule which are currently being redefined with the member states’ experts. it will be available for the council on 3 and 4 june. the rapporteur calls for a specific deadline for sis ii development. i am sorry to tell you that the commission is not yet in a position to take up that proposal. the commission’s experts, together with all member states, are in the process of finalising the adaptation of requirements and the new global schedule. once this is done, the commission will make appropriate suggestions in the light of the new global schedule to be presented at the next justice and home affairs council in two weeks. secondly, the global programme management board is a group of technical experts advising on sis ii development and that should be formalised. the global management board has already proven to be a very good tool of cooperation and technical analysis between the commission and member state experts. the proposal will make sure that this will continue whilst streamlining the board’s role, composition and procedures. for this reason – it is a purely technical body – it is not appropriate to open the board to meps and other parliamentary officials. we will continue to move forward on sis ii in a transparent way with the european parliament, but we must keep a clear distinction between the technical work and political transparency. but in this spirit the commission is open to providing full technical information to the members of this house by making available the reports of the board to parliament, in line with what mr coelho suggests. thirdly, the necessary legal flexibility to carry out the development through an alternative technical scenario would be foreseen and i believe that we all agree on the rationale of this. as regards the budgetary aspects of continuing sis ii development, the commission shares the rapporteur’s aim to make the most efficient use of taxpayers’ money. in this context the report asks to reserve parliament’s right to put funds for sis ii development for 2011 in the budgetary reserve. this is of course entirely within the discretion of the budgetary authority. from the point of view of budgetary implementation i would only ask mr alvaro if there could be some sort of clear and efficient de-blocking procedure for the case when we would need the money. i would like to thank the libe committee, mr coelho and the budgetary control committee rapporteur, mr alvaro, for their excellent cooperation on this file. i am sorry that mr tavares is not yet here. we would have had an opportunity to discuss the eu resettlement programme – an extremely important subject – with him. as you know, a large majority of refugees worldwide are hosted in countries in asia, africa and the middle east. many of these refugees find themselves in catch-22 situations: they cannot return to their country of origin, nor can they integrate locally in the country of first asylum, since many of these countries are themselves victims of conflict or poverty. for these groups of refugees, resettlement can be the only solution. through resettlement, the member states of the european union can demonstrate tangible solidarity with these often over-burdened countries of first asylum, at the same time protecting some of the most vulnerable refugees under sustainable and humane conditions. today, resettlement is carried out, but there is no structural coordination at eu level. the commission believes that the eu can play a bigger part and be more active on resettlement by strengthening the union’s role globally and showing solidarity with the most affected regions. the proposal tabled in september 2009 aims to improve the situation. we are very satisfied by the very positive response that parliament and the council have given to the proposal. i would particularly like to thank mr tavares for his sterling work on this, and i welcome the strong political consensus among the different groups on this matter. the idea in the proposal is that the eu, in partnership with the unhcr, will contribute to more strategic use of resettlement on the basis of an annual decision on the common priorities for resettlement. by pooling the national quotas, the eu can help to alleviate some of the most difficult conflicts in the world and in refugee situations. the programme leaves to each member state the final choice as regards the number of refugees to be resettled, although it will enable them to coordinate and mutualise experiences and best practices. through the annual exercise, the eu will be able to be more reactive to evolving challenges and global refugee needs in order to render more efficient the member states’ use of the european refugee fund. the programme will also help in a more targeted and practical cooperation project through the asylum support office, working with both national administrations and civil society organisations. i fully support the rapporteur’s idea of creating a specialised unit in the office to be established in malta. the joint eu resettlement programme is being discussed at a crucial time: since 2007, five member states – in addition to those which already had the programmes – have decided to start national resettlement programmes. several other member states have resettled iraqi refugees over the past year in response to a commitment agreed at eu level in 2008. it is crucial that we maintain this positive momentum and that the adoption of the proposal is not delayed. we regret, however, that certain divergences and procedural issues are hampering the rapid adoption of this proposal. this proposal is of great political significance. the commission’s decision to establish annual priorities for resettlement is an implementing decision, and forms part of the financial management of the european refugee fund. with respect to the ‘delegated acts’ procedures, we are concerned that the procedure would be considerably delayed, making management of the fund very difficult. this is a first step towards a common approach; there will of course be a review of the experience, and there are plans to bring forward more ambitious initiatives as part of the stockholm programme.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. commissioner, thank you very much for your information. although mr tavares is not with us, i would like to thank him for the cooperation we have had up to now and to express on behalf of our political group and our own side a positive attitude towards the resettlement programme. we are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about a single area of asylum and an integrated refugee management policy which we must have. and of course, the financial instrument to support this effort is the european refugee fund, which, it is true, we have not yet used up sufficiently, and there is room to do even more important things. the european response to global resettlement needs has so far been adequate. i would remind you that the participation of the member states is on a voluntary basis and, to date, together with the two countries which took part in this resettlement, we have only 12 of the 27 member states participating in this effort, and the figures which have emerged from it are not so far very encouraging: 6,896 refugees arrived in europe in 2009 under the resettlement programme, a figure that represents only 8.2% of the total. so we certainly need better coordination and what we have tried to do, through this report and the consultation we have had, is to give incentives, to explain to the member states, that we have every reason to proceed with the implementation and adoption of this programme. the protection of human rights and our practical solidarity with third countries is of course a priority objective, but it must be understood that another reason why all the member states have reason to participate in this programme is that, through this programme, we can send a message to all those in need that they have every reason to choose legal paths in their efforts to reach europe, european territory, for a better life. i would like to say that illegal immigration could also be tackled indirectly through resettlement programmes, since, if such programmes exist, the refugee will not choose illegal routes but will wait to be integrated into these programmes. finally, i should like to mention that we tabled an amendment on the internal resettlement of refugees, which has not been adopted. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. dublin ii has burdened some countries and it is very important that we move forward with the resettlement programme with the help of the european refugee fund.
in writing. we are voting today to establish a joint european programme for the resettlement of asylum seekers from third countries with problems in eu countries. but there is another discussion that needs to be held. for more than a decade, europe itself has been hosting large numbers of refugees and waves of migration. the european south has been left to carry the whole burden of european humanism on its own shoulders and has long since reached its limits. and while europe has - and rightly so - the fund for third countries, there is no provision for its member states. the rapporteur's report at least acknowledges the problem. other reports, such as the one on the establishment of a european asylum support office, make it, at least in words, an obligation to support states which, due to their geographical location, are under particular pressure in their asylum and reception systems. it is mentioned as an objective to support the development of solidarity mechanisms, such as the transfer of beneficiaries of international protection within the eu. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. we must remember that here too any delay is detrimental to our most innocent fellow men.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the future of europe - that is why i spoke - is above all the future generations. optimism for the future of europe means young people with opportunities, with skills and qualifications. this report, and any other initiative in this field, will be of no value in the future if all of us, especially those of us who are directly elected by the european citizens, do not highlight in every policy, in every pillar of our action, the priority and emphasis that we must give to young people. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we will do it with hard work together with our young people who, if they have the resources, if they have the opportunities, will take the future into their own hands, will lead us to a better tomorrow. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs from the other groups for the cooperation and consensus we have reached. (applause from the centre and the right)
in writing. today we gave the green light to the establishment of the european asylum support office. the benefits are many. the asylum support office will play a key role in the completion of a single european asylum area. it will rapidly set up an operational body to coordinate and enhance cooperation between member states on asylum matters by promoting convergence between different national practices. the service will also contribute to the convergence of eu regulations on the right of asylum. in view of all these benefits, and also of the consensus that has been shown by both the member states and the european institutions on the creation of the european bureau, i was very happy to vote in favour of the proposal to create it.
in writing. achieving the 20-20-20 target by 2020, i.e. a 20% reduction in energy consumption, increasing the share of energy from renewable sources in total energy consumption by 20% and increasing energy efficiency by 20%, requires coordinated and targeted action by both the eu and the member states. in particular, improving the energy performance of buildings is the most effective way to reduce energy consumption and emissions by 20% in sectors outside the ets. in particular, energy-efficient buildings can achieve on average 30% more energy savings than conventional buildings. in addition, energy-efficient buildings use less water and have lower maintenance and utility costs. i therefore voted in favour of the energy performance of buildings directive because it is expected to have a major impact on the lives of european citizens, as it directly affects the buildings in which they live and use. moreover, investments in energy efficiency and renewable energy will create millions of jobs and contribute to the eu's economic growth, while also helping to save much needed financial resources currently spent on the maintenance of energy-intensive buildings.
in writing. the adoption of the european programme for the resettlement of refugees from third countries to eu member states is a step in the right direction and i of course voted in favour of the report on this subject, which i was rapporteur for the eesc. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which is based on the principles of the united nations charter and the united nations convention on the law of the sea. but we must soon show the same solidarity within the eu by setting up an internal refugee resettlement programme to alleviate the disproportionate pressures that some member states are facing in relation to others. the pilot programme in malta is a very good example of this.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on key competences for a changing world: implementation of the work programme education and training 2010. the text presents a comprehensive approach to upgrading and adapting education to modern requirements. the search for the reasons for the failure of the bologna process to achieve convergence in higher education between the member states, the importance of adapting education systems to prepare european societies to emerge from the economic crisis and return to sustainable development, and the importance of the penetration of new technologies at all levels of education are key points for the education system of tomorrow. i therefore tabled amendments to that effect in the committee on culture and education, which were voted in favour.
in writing. i fully recognise the importance of eu development policy and aid to developing countries. i voted against the keller report, however, because of its completely inaccurate views on the impact of eu agricultural export subsidies on the agricultural sector in developing countries. the eu is also a very open market for imports from developing countries, as a result of, among other things, the everything but arms initiative and other preferential agreements. it is noted that the commitment of the wto member states at the ministerial conference in hong kong (2005) is to eliminate export subsidies and to impose discipline on all export competition measures having equivalent effect.
madam president, the directive we are discussing today will affect more and more people in the years to come, as medical technology and genetics progress. we cannot today predict literally the number of transplants that this directive will eventually cover, which may become much more important than we imagine. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. however, it is a disadvantage of the compromise which we shall be asked to vote on that it weakens, in relation to the text which we originally voted on, the control by saying that there will be either control or audit, whereas the original text also provided for control and evaluation of the organisations which will carry out the relevant transplants and provide the organs. this is a weakness, and i hope and believe it is not a major one, but i think it is important to point out that because transparency is key in the transplant case.
i would like to congratulate mr ramón jáuregui in particular on his report and the good cooperation that has been achieved, and of course mr preda and mr gál for their contributions from two different committees. madam president, the european union's accession to the european convention on human rights and therefore to the jurisdiction of the court of justice is of course also due to the fact that the union acquired a single legal personality by the treaty of lisbon. and of course some people ask why, when we have incorporated the charter of fundamental rights, we had to go to the strasbourg court of human rights? firstly, the strasbourg court, as defined in the case-law, has acquired much more extensive powers than those provided for in the fundamental rights, and both the presidency and commissioner reding have already hinted at this. secondly, it creates a link between the european union itself and events in europe as a whole, and therefore also with the countries in the council of europe. the report also stresses that the european parliament should be given the opportunity to express its views on the commission's proposals, and that the commission should be given the opportunity to present its proposals to the council. each court has jurisdiction over the powers which the european union has over the court of justice of luxembourg. i think that the accession to the jurisdiction of the european convention on human rights and the procedure for accession to the protocols concerning the corresponding powers is a substantial step forward, and that it certainly also enables the european parliament to be actively involved in the negotiation process and to contribute, through the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe, to the selection of a judge.
the european union is, and remains, a strong supporter of the international criminal court and its role in defending the universality of human rights. it is the hope of all of us that the kabala conference, which will review the rome statute, will be a real stepping stone for the further development of the court. the international community is called upon to enhance the prestige of the institution and to ensure the protection and further enhancement of the independence and effectiveness of international criminal justice. the commission has already submitted a number of proposals in the context of the review procedure, the most important of which is undoubtedly the one concerning the crime of assault. the european parliament has been asked to take part in the debate on the situation in the middle east, and it has been asked to take part in the debate on the situation in the middle east. what we want is legal clarity and cooperation from as many member states of the international community as possible to end impunity through a fair and impartial process. the war criminals must be absolutely certain that they will be held accountable for their actions. it is this certainty of punishment that can help prevent similar acts in the future and also pave the way for reconciliation after violent conflicts. we therefore reaffirm our full support for the aims of the court and our commitment to human rights and international humanitarian law, and wish the uganda review conference every success.
the big word missing from immigration programs is the word "solidarity". we voted today for the resettlement of asylum seekers from third countries in europe, but the commission's programme refuses to make any provision for the resettlement of asylum seekers from one european country to another, or to provide any money. where's the solidarity? over 100,000 illegal immigrants come to greece from turkey every year. what about the europe-turkey agreement on the return of these migrants? it's cancerous, and it's hardly mentioned in your program. what about the deal that frontex is negotiating today with turkey? can you assure us that it will not directly or indirectly challenge the sovereign rights of greece, and therefore of europe, in the field of borders? and finally, of course, the great obligation of solidarity with the immigrants themselves, called "immigrant integration". without the integration of immigrants, commissioner, there is no possibility of 40 million people who have come and are among us being able to live on an equal footing with us. we're creating potential time bombs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
madam president, we were indeed pleased to vote in favour of the provisions in the stockholm programme relating to solidarity on immigration and on tackling illegal immigration. i read in the action programme that in 2011 the commission will set up a mechanism to assess national asylum systems in order to be able to assist the member states better in relation to the possibilities that each has, but also the needs that exist. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european asylum service in malta. the question is specific: will the european asylum service be involved in this mechanism and, through this mechanism, in the evaluation that will be carried out? is there a plan to resettle refugees within the eu in order to reduce the pressure differentials between member states?
member of the commission. − we are, of course, in constant dialogue with ukraine on this issue. my colleague commissioner štefan füle has presented a matrix of cooperation and i am very much involved in this as well. it does cover home affairs in order to see how we can help the ukrainian authorities to develop on these matters and how we can deepen our cooperation further. this will also be dealt with in a meeting with the ukrainian authorities in only a few weeks time. police cooperation and education as such are not foreseen in the immediate future but that could, of course, be discussed once ukraine has carried out the necessary reforms. we are open to cooperation with them. they are an important neighbour. we have lots in common. we have common challenges concerning cross-border crime, so it would also be good for us if we could engage further in this. of course, the ukrainians also need to improve, but we are there and are ready to help and assist them, and we will see what this will lead to in the longer term.
member of the commission. − the most recent edition of eurostat crime and criminal justice statistics that was published date back to 29 may; it covers the period from 1998 to 2007 and it does not indicate the increase described by the honourable mep. the commission nevertheless acknowledge that organised crime is a threat to citizens and the economy throughout the european union. the commission is committed to come up with relevant proposals, and to implement the actions to prevent and to combat various forms of criminal activities, organised or otherwise. this is why these objectives are part of the stockholm programme comprehensive framework for eu action on the citizens, justice, security and migration policy for the next five years. recently the commission adopted the stockholm action plan and i think my colleague vice-president reding was here just half an hour ago to present it and discuss it with this plenary. furthermore, before the end of this year, the commission will present a communication on the internal security strategy and that will contain concrete proposals and threat assessments for the coming five years. of course organised crime will be included in this. common threats require common responses, so common tools should be effectively used by all member states, public authorities and private organisations. let me mention three types of crime which are truly european and also have an international dimension: trafficking in human beings, cyber crime and identity theft. the commission is determined to reinforce cooperation in this and is also preparing operational and legislative proposals on this. we will do this in cooperation with member states, with the european parliament and with ngos and the private sector. dialogue coordination and operations are key words for the future; sharing best practices, standards, guidelines, developing training and research should increase mutual effectiveness and understanding. the cooperation with candidate and third countries is important to tackle crimes effectively. i would like to underline that an ambitious approach in the decision-making process depends on the political willingness of member states. the effective and efficient implementation of the adopted measures depends on the national resources allocated to achieve objectives. the commission can support member states by financial programmes to cooperate at a european level. as you all know, the lisbon treaty provides the european parliament with new competences in this field, and i would like to stress your responsibility and important role in shaping security in the european union.
member of the commission. − i just want to thank the honourable member for this information. i will certainly look into it and see whether we can track some patterns in this. for the moment, i am not in a capacity to answer this but i will certain look into it and thank you for suggesting this.
i'm the editor. - commissioner, thank you very much for your reply. you've been thorough and mostly honest in this particular answer as far as the date up to the point where you have data, which is up to 2007. this question was put to you by me on 6 april 2010 and on 5 may 2010, in greece, as you know, three people were unjustly, tragically lost during peaceful demonstrations by greek citizens demanding a better tomorrow. i'm repeating the question to get a more specific answer. does the commission intend to be more systematic in its intervention and in its recommendations to the member states on these matters? will you be able to gather more rapid and immediate information on these issues, given that the problem seems to be particularly acute at the moment in many european cities?
member of the commission. − the commission – and i myself – very much deplore the deaths of these three people in the riots recently, as described by the member. it is always a tragedy when innocent people are affected by these issues. we deplore it, and our thoughts are with their families. as you say, we need to refresh our statistics all the time, and eurostat is looking at this. hopefully we will be able to have a better assessment some time soon. we do not plan any initiatives for the moment on this. these crimes and these deaths are horrible, but the commission’s competence is limited to cross-border crime and to facilitating cooperation between national authorities and european authorities. for the moment there is no initiative planned in this regard.
member of the commission. − the visa policy of the european union is harmonised and it is a common policy. it is based on three legal instruments, applicable to member states, namely regulation (ec) no 539/2001, listing the third countries whose nationals are subject to visa requirements and those who are not; secondly the visa code covering all procedures and conditions for issuing short-stay schengen visas; and finally regulation (ec) no 1683/95 establishing the uniform format for visas. these rules apply to nationals of all third countries subject to visa requirement. the first regulation i referred to establishes a list of third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing external borders; this is the so-called ‘negative’ list. there is also the positive list: those nationals who are exempt from that requirement on the basis of different criteria, amongst which reciprocity is a basic principle. this regulation is applicable to all eu member states except for the united kingdom and ireland and also to iceland, norway and switzerland. in accordance with the principle of reciprocity, the eu considers that, in the case of nationals from third country who are exempted from the visa requirement for travelling to the eu member states, the third country should provide reciprocal treatment for the eu citizens by exempting them from the visa requirement when travelling to that country. when a third country on the positive list maintains or introduces a visa obligation for nationals of one, two or more member states, the reciprocity mechanisms apply. this is the framework in which the commission could take steps to obtain the restoration of the visa-free travel by the third country, or if that is not achievable, to propose retaliatory measures on the temporary restoration of the visa requirement for nationals of that third country. this system has proven to be quite efficient, as the steps taken by the commission and drawn up in the periodical reciprocity report show, and under this reciprocity mechanism, applicable since 2005, 75 cases of non-reciprocity concerning 13 third countries of the positive list were notified by member states. since then reciprocity has been established with most of these 13 countries, such as japan, panama, singapore, australia, uruguay and costa rica, and recently the commission concluded negotiations on a visa waiver with brazil, and that will be submitted to you and to the council very soon. problems of non-reciprocity continue to exist for certain member states vis-à-vis the us and canada, and this is something that we always bring up with these countries. the mechanism does not apply in case a third country on the negative list maintains or imposes the visa obligation only on nationals of one or more member countries, or when the third country applies different conditions for citizens of different member states. the community acquis does not contain rules for such cases and does not provide a specific mechanism, so it is very difficult for the eu to intervene.
member of the commission. − i am, of course, very familiar with the case that the honourable member is referring to, and the commission has been extremely involved in this. the canadian authorities have established an office in prague – that is one condition that we imposed on them – and they are also establishing a road map towards restoring visa freedom again. we have had several high-level meetings with canada, the czech republic and the commission in order to outline the steps that need to be taken. the canadians have said that they will change their law and they will submit it very soon to their parliament in order to change it. we are in dialogue with them and with the czech authorities in order to make sure that the dialogue is still there, that there is a constructive atmosphere and that we can move towards a solution to this. it will be discussed again by the member states in the council at the beginning of june. i am sorry that this conflict has not been solved yet but i can assure the honourable member that we are trying, together with our czech colleagues, to find a solution to this as soon as possible.
member of the commission. − i have a busy agenda today! i would like to recall that we have had a difficult history in negotiations with turkey starting already with the mandate in 2002, but recently there have been very many positive steps. last year, the council conclusion on illegal immigration urged accelerating negotiations with turkey, and, also last year, my predecessor, mr barrot, visited turkey together with the swedish minister billström. there was a joint statement at that time moving forward. since then there has been progress. there have been several talks over the winter, and we are now very close to an agreement in negotiations on the readmission agreement with turkey. the commission is confident that the agreed parts of the text are balanced and that they reflect our needs while addressing turkey’s concerns. we are working in order to finalise this text as soon as possible and we are in constant contact with the turkish authorities. the aim is to finalise this and to report on the outcome of the negotiations during the june council. we will keep parliament fully informed as it will be asked to grant its consent for conclusion once it is concluded. on the frontex arrangement, there is no formal linkage between the negotiation of the working arrangement and the eu-turkey readmission agreement. having said that, the commission is taking the necessary steps in order to ensure overall coherence in addressing similar issues in both acts. the commission is not in a position to comment on the delimitation of the territory or the borders of a given member state, as these issues are the sole responsibility of the member states and the applicable provisions of international law. we would like to encourage frontex and the host member state to ensure that adequate information is provided to neighbouring third countries on the deployment of assets such as airborne means close to the borders before a joint operation is launched.
i'm the editor. - commissioner, the difficulty of giving a clearer answer to repeated questions of this kind makes me realize that these negotiations are difficult in any case and, in my personal opinion, confirms the question that political issues are being raised by turkey which make it difficult to conclude the negotiations. i thank you for your willingness to ensure that, as soon as these negotiations are concluded, there is an eu-turkey agreement, we will be aware of it. so i would like to add this to your list: the european union has also been involved in the negotiations with turkey, and the turkish government has been involved in the negotiations with greece, and recently, during the visit of the turkish prime minister to greece, a protocol, a memorandum of cooperation with greece on illegal immigration issues, was signed in athens. the question i want to ask you is: can this memorandum, this, say, readmission agreement between greece and turkey, replace the agreement currently being negotiated between the european union and turkey?
member of the commission. − without knowing the exact details of the agreement made between turkey and greece, i think it shows the constructive mood that we are in as regards the greek authorities on the one hand and the turkish on the other. there is a parallel negotiation going on with turkey. we are, as i said, very close to wrapping these negotiations up. there has been a very constructive atmosphere and i think this shows the necessity for the european union of achieving this and also the interest on the turkish side in reaching an agreement with us on re-admission. this is of course to the benefit of everybody.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i can understand that. you told us recently in the libe committee, when you were with us and informed us of the matters within your competence, that the final agreement with turkey on illegal immigration is, as you said today, at a very good level and is coming to an end. the european union and turkey have agreed to a number of agreements, including the one on the european union's relations with turkey. is frontex not a very important factor in the fight against illegal immigration? i do not know how much you can tell us about what is involved in the negotiations, but common sense says this: should there not be provision at this point for the operation and action of frontex?
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i will make a brief statement: i share the views of all the honourable members who have spoken in this debate. as regards the european investment bank, i intervened immediately after my appointment as commissioner for industry, meeting with president maystadt and urging him to disburse the 30 billion envisaged for small and mediumsized enterprises from the european investment bank - an intervention which i had announced in advance during the hearing before parliament, which then gave me confidence as commissioner for industry. the president's response was quite positive. he told me that after an initial blockade, about six or seven billion of the 30 planned had arrived in the country. i was concerned to urge the president to speed up the delivery times. there is also a problem with the banks on the ground - as the last speaker mentioned - the european banking system is quite diverse, not all banks are the same, there are banks that do financial speculation, but fortunately there is still a banking network where the director knows the entrepreneur who goes to ask for credit and so he can trust and so he also knows that then the money that comes in can go into the bank and so what happened in the united states does not happen. the conference i organized a few days ago with the participation of many of your fellow members of the european parliament was aimed at this very thing, at working out a strategy, which is why i said that we have set up a forum which will then have to lead to an action plan for the disbursement of credit. we are aiming at the competitiveness of our small and mediumsized enterprises. to be competitive, there must be innovation, but innovation cannot be achieved unless there is the necessary funding to do so. hence my priority commitment to involve the banks too - the banks that lend, too, and many have guaranteed their commitment for the future to do so - and therefore with strong action, including stimulus from the commission, involving banks, including financial operators, the european investment bank, which took part in the debate with two vice-presidents, we are trying to achieve at least part of these objectives, convinced as we are that small and mediumsized enterprises today represent the best instrument to try to get out of the crisis and to prevent - as i said at the beginning of my speech - the economic and financial crisis from turning into a social crisis. you can count on my total commitment to ensure that small and mediumsized enterprises are defended, protected and supported, including in financial terms, in the hope that they can develop, that new ones can be born, because our aim is always that, through this market economy where small and mediumsized enterprises can be increasingly competitive, a real social policy can be implemented, as the treaty of lisbon says.
this meeting is resumed. the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the principle of subsidiarity and the universality of social public services in the eu, by jan olbrycht and lambert van nistelrooij, on behalf of the ppe group, heide rühle, on behalf of the verts/ale group, oldřich vlasák, on behalf of the ecr group, peter simon, françoise castex, evelyne gebhardt and proinsias de rossa, on behalf of the s&d group, ramona nicole mănescu and olle schmidt, on behalf of the alde group (o-0062/10 - b7-0218/2010).
member of the commission. − madam president, i fully agree that we have to look at this question in a wider context, in this case in the context of the financial and economic crisis. in the last two years we saw that this was a test of competition policies no matter whether it concerned the financial sector, the automotive sector or, in this case, the housing sector, and it was also a test of our social policies, whether it concerned children or the elderly or the homeless. in this set of questions which i received, these two issues – competition and social policies – overlap. that is why it is even more complex than it would be outside the context of the crisis. the crisis demonstrated an enormous market failure, not only in the financial sector but also in the housing sector, and it became very clear that market forces alone cannot resolve these problems, not only for the extremely poor, but also for larger groups of society. that is why i would be strictly against any principle that would restrict the concept of social housing to only the poorest groups in society, especially with respect to the diversity of european countries and the principle of subsidiarity. i would certainly insist on leaving the definitions in this context to the member states themselves as i have said already in my introductory speech. going back to the dutch case, which has been the focus of the discussion, i would like to repeat that the commission is not imposing the criteria that have been set in the dutch context to any other country. in full respect of subsidiarity, it is for the member states to decide the actual conditionality of social housing. this is confirmed by the decision concerning the dutch state aid scheme, and i would like to recall that the limits set by the dutch authorities – which apply only in the netherlands – cover 43% of the dutch population, which is certainly well beyond the poorest groups. the dutch decision, moreover, has confirmed that the social mix and social cohesion are valid public policy objectives for which state aid may be justified, and not only for those living in extreme poverty or at risk of poverty. i think the social distress in this over the last few years has destabilised society on a much wider scale, and that is why we have to be sensitive to this. i would also need to add that the commission only verifies aid given to housing companies. any subsidy given directly to citizens is not subject to state aid rules. the discussion also touched upon a wider context, which is social services of general interest. that is why i need to address this as well and emphasise that beyond housing, other services of general interest and in particular other social services play a preventive and socially cohesive role which is targeted at the whole population independently of wealth or income. the commission made this point clear in its 2007 communication when it highlighted the objectives and principles of organisation of social services. the commission is committed to promoting the quality of social services. for instance we support the development of a quality framework for social services of general interest within the social protection committee. a few final thoughts in closing my answer. since some of the questions concerned a longer timescale, spanning into the next financial perspective, i would agree that, in a variety of contexts, housing will be affected; indeed, refurbishment in the context of energy efficiency – which, from our point of view, falls under the category of green jobs – will certainly be an area where we will have activity, without, of course, trying to have a common european housing policy. there will also be other issues like housing for the most vulnerable groups of society such as the roma, where there is already a beginning, and i think there will be continued support from the structural funds to address housing issues, in this particular case for the extremely vulnerable marginalised groups in a variety of member states. this also highlights the importance of having a very diversified view because countries are different in terms of their social needs, and certain decisions and solutions that are applied in high-income countries certainly do not necessarily have to be followed – and definitely not imposed – in other member states.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the commission statement on safety and prevention measures on the european union's offshore oil platforms.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the recent explosion in the gulf of mexico occurred on a platform that was only built in 2001, and its subsequent sinking is causing one of the greatest ecological disasters to date. so far, 29 days after the accident, it has not been possible to stop the leak and, as mr sonik said, over 5,000 tonnes of oil are being spilled into the sea every day in this bay. this huge pollution is occurring at a time when ovulation peaks for many species, many of which are endangered. these are five of the seven species of sea turtles, dolphins, a great many whales and a great many important marine mammals. fate, and man suffers! this explosion, this accident, happened in an area that is just beginning to recover from the wounds left by hurricane katrina, and the explosion itself caused the death of 11 people. but in america they take action. congress in 1981 voted a moratorium that imposed a ban on offshore oil drilling in 85 percent of america's coastal waters. the obama administration has confirmed the moratorium after the crash, despite initial statements to the contrary. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the oil spills. there are hundreds of offshore platforms currently in operation, both for oil and for natural gas. the recent accident in the gulf of mexico really confirmed the risk of literal disaster to the marine environment from offshore oil rigs. however, european legislation excludes the exploration and exploitation of offshore oil resources from the scope of the seveso directive on the management of major-accident hazards involving dangerous substances. the recent disaster shows us that no one can guarantee that a similar disaster could not happen in the european union and that sometimes simply increasing preventive measures is not enough. the obama administration, faced with the scale of the disaster, has folded. is it not time, in addition to additional preventive measures, for the european union to introduce a european moratorium, which will henceforth prohibit offshore oil drilling in european union waters, in line with the us? we must act immediately, before a predicted gulf of mexico crime actually knocks on our door.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i am as concerned as you are, not only as a commissioner but also as a citizen, when you see how nature is being disturbed and destroyed here for many years. the affected person must nevertheless remain sober, keep a cool head, and avoid hectic and hysterical situations. the exact cause of the accident in the gulf of mexico is still unknown. was it the technology that failed? was it the human who failed? i trust the american government and the american public to explain with the same thoroughness as we are interested in explaining the causes here in europe. i also believe that the people of the united states of america expect you to draw the same level of concern and thoroughness to draw the consequences. i have confidence in the industrial country of america and its technical competence and its democracy. second, we have to go the way of the oil. but it is clear that we have been going down the path of oil for generations, the industrial countries of europe in particular. our fellow citizens have well over 200 million cars, and you drive them, and i drive them. i'm a multi-drive and a multi-flyer. hundreds of thousands of people are flying south again this weekend, spending their pentecost holidays in mallorca. and for greece and spain, it is said that only tourism can solve the economic crisis. that means more flights to athens, palma, marbella and other places. we consume oil, all of us, you and i. it seems to me that this great hall, the high house, has not been built with energy either. and so i think we just have to know that we need a lot of oil for many years and we still have to go with all the ambition to go beyond oil: 20 percent renewable energy in 10 years. we're preparing a roadmap for 2050 and we'll be showing you the different alternatives as the year goes on. experts say that in four decades up to 80% of our energy needs can be extracted beyond fossil energy and therefore beyond oil. this is where electric mobility is an opportunity. but for many years to come, the majority of vehicles will be powered not by electricity but by oil in the form of diesel and gasoline. it is clear that those who drill for oil in the north sea and in the gulf of mexico want to reduce their dependence on some countries. otherwise, without our own resources, we would be even more dependent on opec countries and on countries which are not always democratic. there is a key difference: the north sea is drilled at a depth of about 500 to 600 feet [150 to 200 m]. in the gulf of mexico, the depth has reached 3,000 to even 4,000 meters, with all the worst possibilities to guarantee safety. 150 or 200 meters can be reached by manned submarines. in the gulf of mexico, man is basically far from the source of danger, far from technical safety. i also trust our member states. we have every reason to trust our national authorities and our technical teams in the united kingdom, germany, norway and denmark. and in the existing partnership between the european union and our agency emsa with the national security teams, we have an excellent, high level of cooperative security between the european union and our member states, which are neighbouring countries. we have of course also had to consider the question of safety in the case of nord stream. there were complex safety and permitting procedures, all of which were carried out, and i would like to say that nord stream will probably be the most advanced and secure gas pipeline in the world. there are also crucial differences. if there's ever a problem in the gas pipeline, you can stop the gas at the source or at the coast. nord stream is not comparable to what is happening in the gulf of mexico. ultimately, we have to find a way out of oil, but that will take decades. every one of us in politics and society must go to him. and on the way there and in the meantime, we have to check that our security standards and laws and policies and security teams are the highest level. we have asked the appropriate questions. we will be happy to report back to you in the autumn when we know the causes, when we have the answers, when we have rigorously questioned our energy companies. i think the energy companies are well aware of the seriousness of the situation. and a final point: the basis for liability for damages already exists. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected. this too will certainly strengthen the precautionary approach. i expect that in a few weeks we will know whether we need to take any legal or technical action, and then we will be happy to report back to the house. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we do this in the commission!
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the brian simpson volcanic ash crisis, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism (o-0061/10 - b7-0217/10).
the closure yesterday of two major european airports, in london and amsterdam, due to a new build-up of volcanic ash, has shown that the flight disruption in april was not the result of an unlikely event with no long-term consequences or risk of recurrence. the absence of mr simpson from our debate tonight is much more significant than his presence. we are in a difficult economic period, with a number of mergers in the air transport sector and uncertainties for both companies and their employees. for three consecutive days in april, the international industry's daily losses reached $400 million, threatening to blow up the restructuring efforts of europe's economically weaker carriers. it is clear that the appropriate institutional tools have not been and are not yet in place to enable risk assessment to be carried out at european level and to make use, on the basis of a specific method, of all the information available to the member states and the european authorities. the risk of a repetition of the highly damaging confusion we experienced under the volcanic ash is real and the measures to be taken must institutionally shield the union's ability to intervene in a coordinated and pre-planned manner in such crises, limiting the incredible suffering of millions of passengers and the financial damage to airlines and tourist businesses.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, thank you very much for the many interesting and detailed comments on this ash problem. i only had three minutes at the beginning, now i can elaborate at least 10 times more on all these issues, but i will be brief – do not worry – or at least not too long. i can only say that it has really been a very exciting and extraordinary period, and it is back again. it is clear that volcanoes continue to erupt as this icelandic volcano is doing. this is all part of life for the aviation industry, but it is not only volcanoes but also thunderstorms, snow and such occurrences which all disrupt aviation. this is a part of this business, we must be very clear about that. nobody alone can be responsible for this risk – no airlines, no governments, no european union. i must also say that so far the european union has no jurisdiction at all in regulating air traffic. it has been intergovernmental bodies that have been dealing with this so far, as well as national authorities. to exclude, prevent or foresee everything which can happen in aviation is impossible. the risks must be shared and clients who decide to use aviation services must be prepared – as we must all be – for some delay if, for example, the runway at brussels airport is not cleared of snow or some other thing. regarding the criticism that we acted late and regarding who in fact acted: i was there in eurocontrol; the risk from ash is a real risk, and we cannot hold out for the possibility that we will finally find scientific solutions concerning what size of particle would be considered dangerous for engines, because nobody wants to give this assessment. we can determine particle size and we can assess the cloud, but nobody wants to give an assessment and to say that this ash is no longer dangerous for the engines. this will be a very complicated thing. the decision to close airspace was taken strictly in accordance with the existing rules and with all relevant institutions who were responsible for this. to those who ask who is now responsible for the closure of airspace, i would ask them who would be responsible if the airspace had not been closed and something had happened. when eurocontrol sought to find some different approaches to the ash cloud, it was not an easy decision or easy discussion because it was a matter of deciding to take enormous responsibility for the safety of aviation. the safety of planes and lives must come first. i think it was done reasonably fast under these circumstances because the volcano was, and continues to be, very exceptional and extraordinary. regarding the future, the key issue mentioned by somebody is what about indonesia, what about the united states? there is a responsibility, which mainly rests with the pilots. in europe today, pilots tend to reject this kind of new responsibility. european air traffic is very busy and there must be some kind of combination between greater flexibility and clear data about the possible threats and possible risks. i do not know about indonesia, but in the united states the system is very simple: it is the pilot who decides how to circumvent the ash and i must say that this works very well. but in europe we must obviously first create some common approach to the methodology of possible assessment of risk. regarding passengers, i must say that we have always consistently and forcefully stated from the commission side that passenger rights legislation must be complied with. this is a very clear message. again, the enforcement of this legislation is in the hands of member states but i understand that most airlines and most member states also have taken this very seriously. there are different examples and of course in the aftermath there will be exposure to negative examples as well, but mostly they have been taken seriously, and we are planning a revision of passenger rights. we will definitely then assess what to do with the attempts to abuse passenger rights and excessive interpretations of passenger rights. in general the passenger rights legislation has worked very well and the logic must be there. passenger rights stipulate that passengers must be provided with information, with care and with rerouting or reimbursement under these extraordinary circumstances, not compensation. this is a different word. there is a huge programme under way with the single sky initiative in order to streamline air traffic management, and i cannot complain about the cooperation between member states during this particular period. the transport council was very cooperative and made many decisions which probably under other circumstances would have taken much longer. i really cannot say that we had bad cooperation with member states in preparing and handling this extraordinary transport council. regarding finance and financial consequences, its rules are very simple and they are very clearly described in our paper prepared by three commissioners – rehn, almunia and myself. this is state aid, and state aid can be given if member states consider that there are enough reasons to give state aid to an airline which is in trouble, because passenger rights and all these costs must be borne by the airline. if the airline is in trouble and if a member state considers that this is really a very bad situation, then state aid can be given, but, before state aid is given, a very careful assessment must be made not to create distortions and unfair advantages in the market. this was the main concern of airlines as well, and a fair approach to everybody is also the commission’s concern; our competition department will definitely look very carefully at all possible state aid cases. so far, i do not know if anybody has applied for state aid in this particular area because, as i said at the beginning, airlines have contingency plans. somebody mentioned that they should have insurance. i asked them as well about the insurance. insurance is more or less impossible because you cannot describe the product, or you can describe the product but it will be so expensive that it is not affordable. they have contingency plans on how to deal with extraordinary circumstances which disrupt the schedules. of course, as an economist, i can see that there is a lot of room for different fantasies, what to calculate under the losses and what is a real number. it is a huge work to define the exact consequences of this volcanic ash which can be presented as a claim. regarding alternative transport, we will of course push ahead. we will have a ten-t meeting soon where the commission will push ahead for the development of a network of other modes of transport. i asked railways what is possible and what they actually did during this crisis, and they sent a lot of interesting information. there were additional trains, but the information about availability, timetables and other things remain, so far, very poor. one of our biggest priorities for the near future will be to have better information about all these possibilities. again, if there is a crisis in aviation, then bringing passengers home or taking them to destinations will still mainly be in the hands of airlines. it is at the planning stages that it is very important to also consider other modes and indeed other engines. this is another interesting story. there are lessons to be learned, and we are learning these lessons, and we will push forward with many plans and measures to create more streamlined air traffic management in europe. i must stress that volcanoes do not obey any rules, and we cannot exclude possible extraordinary events. there will always be some risk which must be taken into account, and such a risk must be part of planning our activities.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
on behalf of the efd group. i would like to take this opportunity to thank you personally, commissioner, for the hard and effective work you have done on the economic crisis in my country, greece. i would also like to thank all the parties in this parliament for their support and solidarity with greece. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i would like to ask you to support them. as regards the adoption of a permanent tool for economic governance, the bruegel institute, which is an economic think tank, proposes the following: the european central bank guarantees european bonds of up to 60% of each country's gdp, which it calls "blue bonds". the commission has already proposed that the 60% limit be exceeded by borrowing on market terms for the percentage of the excess, the so-called red bonds. this is a proposal for a permanent tool in economic governance, it does not require the setting up of new mechanisms and so on, and it can be adopted very quickly. two ad hoc proposals for greece: the international monetary fund will extend the repayment period of the loan to greece from three to five years. if the same extension is adopted by our european creditors, greece will be able to repay its debt much more easily and realistically, and that will be a good signal for the markets. the second proposal: the amount of aid to greece will be used to pay off our bonds. the rational approach would be for europe to free up resources now that it will give to greece in the future to be used for the development of the greek economy. at the moment the greek government is defending itself, raising money, trying to raise money so that it can reduce its debt. but we have no parallel development effort. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say that we can only hope that the greek crisis will be the price the european union has to pay for the in-depth establishment of economic governance that it should have done ten years ago. let us hope that the greek crisis is the only price.
mr president, tomorrow in greece will be the biggest strike mobilization in the last decade. greek workers resist the measures taken by the government, workers who neither work less nor are paid better than other colleagues, please look at the data. mr rehn, it is the height of hypocrisy to call this mechanism of tripartite financing the 'salvation and solidarity mechanism'. it is a european punitive mechanism, with the international monetary fund as the bad guy. for six months we have been suggesting that you should make use of article 122 of the treaty of lisbon. for six months we have been calling on the european central bank to change policy. for six months we've been calling you to check out the unacceptable american rating agencies. you didn't. you let the speculators party, you brought the international monetary fund into the eurozone and now you're calling for tough austerity programs. this mechanism must be discussed by the european parliament, in accordance with article 218 of the treaty of lisbon, and a genuine solidarity policy must be discussed.
mr president, i would like to say that i fully support, on a theoretical level, the proposals of mr olli rehn, whom i dare to consider a political asset for europe and a person to whom we should pay special tribute. but what i want to say and point out is that the great fever is as dangerous as hypothermia to the human body and to the economy. the slow adjustment of maastricht, which the whole of europe's economy has been going through for many years, should not lead to forced and violent adjustment leading to a prolongation of the recession. the rich will get richer and the poor will get poorer. i would therefore like to point out that the continuing global economic turmoil is mainly due to the creation of large unwanted reserves at the global level, and must be countered by an effort to stimulate growth at the european level, so that we can deal with this crisis rationally.
first of all, in addition, and for ten seconds, i would like to ask you to please state the facts of the case. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to point out that it would be good if mr langen would repeat these recommendations at the next meeting of the european people's party, because the epp is made up of those colleagues who happened to be in charge of the government of the country until a few months ago. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of democratization, and it has been a very active participant in the process of democratization. the decision to set up a mechanism to support the stability of the euro area is an important step, there is no doubt about that. but a crisis management mechanism is not enough; we need to tackle the root causes, not only at national but also at european level. we are making a mistake and undermining our common future and the future of future generations by focusing only on immediate fiscal consolidation and underestimating the impact on growth, employment and the basic structures of the welfare state that took us a few decades to build. commissioner, the proposals you presented on 12 may to strengthen economic coordination can help to build a more cohesive europe with fewer macroeconomic imbalances, provided that they do not limit themselves to the rigorous implementation of the stability and growth pact and that they effectively incorporate specific objectives for sustainable growth and employment in the framework of the 2020 strategy.
mr president, as a greek mep, i would like to repeat in this chamber something i have said publicly from the beginning and in greece, and to express my appreciation for the help my country has received from the european support mechanism, which, in combination with tough but mostly unavoidable measures, has prevented the immediate impasse into which the greek economy was heading. it would have been useful if the mechanism for greece had been adopted with the speed with which the mechanism for supporting other economies was being adopted, when europe finally realised the risks we all face. it is the first time today that i have seen in this parliament and in the other european institutions a real determination to look directly and realistically at the real economic dead ends of europe. but why were we led here? the main reason is that we were spending more than we had and sending the bill into the future. we spent when we didn't have a crisis, we spent during the crisis, we spend now that we're coming out of the crisis. anyone who wants to know what happens to a man who constantly spends money he does not have, has only to come to greece. the european monetary fund and the other institutions proposed in the resolution under negotiation are in the right direction. but the fund, in order to provide real incentives, must take account not only of the absolute level of debt and deficit but also of the rate at which debt and deficit are falling. ladies and gentlemen, our real problem is that they have discovered capitalism, and i say this to the left wing, four billion people in the developing world who live on 200 euros a month and claim the world's resources and markets from us rich people, who live on 2,000 euros a month. we no longer have in the west the monopoly of capitalism on which the old european model was built. if we do not change, if we do not run much faster with structural change, competitiveness and innovation, we will simply live poorer.
i am sorry to interrupt you. you will notice in the chamber that, although she was saying very nice things about greece, i did interrupt her at exactly one minute, so i am trying to be as objective as i can be here.
acting president of the council. - mr president, we can really say that we are facing a situation in the european union which is similar to others which have existed and been resolved favourably in the history of the union, which has been a difficult one. it is a situation of crossroads like the one that followed the second world war and which gave birth to what was not yet called the european union. this is what happened when the berlin wall was torn down, when europe was reunited, when there was a crisis - indeed, of the european monetary system - and the answer was to go ahead and adopt a new treaty. this is what we did at the beginning of this century with the treaty of lisbon and it is the only possible way out of a difficult situation such as the present one. the other alternative, of course, is clearly populism or protectionism, and that is not an option. the choice is clearly to move towards a europe which solves the shortcomings it has and which have become apparent when this very serious crisis has occurred, which none of us in this chamber have ever known. the way to respond to the situation of deregulated markets or to a problem in the productive system of lack of competitiveness - which today has serious effects, with a social impact in terms of unemployment - or to the problem of deficits - which there are twenty countries in the eu-27 that are subject to an excessive deficit procedure - or to the obvious lack of economic governance in the european union is not to have less europe but to have more europe. that's the way to respond to this situation right now. and it must be said that the european union has reacted, and i refer to the previous speeches, both by commissioner rehn and myself, in which the european union has reacted in this way. but at the moment the times have accelerated even more and i think we have to give more speed to that response which has to help solve those fundamental problems which still exist in the european union and which have been put to the test as a result of this crisis. that is why i would like to propose cooperation to the institutions of the european union and, of course, to the european parliament on what i believe are five areas where we need to move faster, we need to accelerate or round off or complete the task planned and started correctly. the first aspect is solidarity. solidarity in the euro area must be deepened, and that is why the aid to greece and the decision to provide this fund - for a three-year period, not yet fully permanent - of 750 billion euro to prevent possible difficult situations in the public accounts or imbalances in the public accounts was so wise. i think this is a fundamental element, and it is right that the european council has put it forward and that the council has approved it on 9 may; this element has also been joined by the action of the european central bank, which is even intervening at the moment, buying up debt from the states using the channels allowed by the lisbon treaty. secondly, a financial supervision package is being discussed in this parliament right now. and in some ways, the advance of this was the approval yesterday at ecofin of the regulation of hedge funds. then we can do it, of course we can do it. that regulation has been reached, but the negotiations between the council and the european parliament on the whole financial supervision package must be completed as soon as possible. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the european parliament's powers. thirdly, we must focus on competitiveness. that is why it is very important that the european council in june adopts and launches the 2020 strategy. a 2020 strategy that quantifies the objectives, including poverty and social inclusion, not yet quantified. a strategy which establishes its own governance, much more demanding than the virtually non-existent lisbon strategy - and that is what mr verhofstadt was referring to earlier - and a strategy which uses positive incentives to achieve the objectives, such as the use of european funds or the structural funds. fourthly, the package on economic policy coordination presented by commissioner olli rehn on 12 may and discussed yesterday at ecofin. it is absolutely essential that we do what the treaty of lisbon tells us when it says in article 5 of the treaty on the functioning of the eu that the member states are obliged - not that it is better or desirable, it is that they are obliged - to coordinate their economic policies and their employment policies, and they can also coordinate their social policies. in this connection, the development of article 136 of the tfeu, as established by this commission proposal, seems to us to be very important and we must speed up the implementation of this too. and finally, i also think we should speed up the debate or the decision, which i think should be raised at the g20, on a tax on international financial transactions. i would ask the european parliament to support these very significant, very important points, which would represent a step forward towards the so-called economic governance of the union, and to support them so that a decision can be taken on them as soon as possible. we cannot wait much longer in that regard. i believe that unity in the european union has never been more necessary than it is now, and i am not referring only to unity between the member states of the union but also between the institutions. the european parliament is a european institution, the commission is a european institution and the council is also a european institution. and the institutions must work together now so that this drive towards the governance of the union and towards the fundamental resolution of these problems that have emerged at this moment is consolidated, and is a manifestation of our commitment to starting a new political stage in the european union that is beneficial for the citizens, who expect us to do just that. they don't expect anything else, they expect us to do just that.
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you to the members for a very serious and substantive debate reflecting the serious situation we are now facing in europe. let me first say that i highly appreciate the broad support given by the european parliament for reinforcing economic governance. i also listened very carefully to minister lópez garrido and i thank the spanish presidency for their support and for the excellent cooperation on this issue as well as on other issues. i strongly agree with those of you who have called for an economic union to complement the monetary one. this is the way forward, and this is the critical lesson we must learn from the crisis. we have to work on three strengths. first of all, we need vigilance for the immediate resolution of the crisis in greece and elsewhere in europe. we have avoided another lehman brothers happening on european soil, but we are certainly not out of the woods yet, and therefore we must continue with vigilance and determination to safeguard financial stability in europe and thus protect the still-fragile economic recovery of our continent. secondly, we need to speed up, intensify and complete the regulatory reform of financial markets, bank levies, short selling and credit agencies. it is much better to act at a european level and to do it as soon as possible. we need to create a framework to correct the systemic errors of the financial markets and on this i very much agree with mrs jaakonsaari and mr swoboda. the market can be a good servant but it is a bad master, and, as mr theurer said, we need to work for the basic idea of a social market economy in order to create a credible legal framework for financial markets through completing the regulatory reform. thirdly, we need to move on to decisions concerning reinforcing economic governance in europe; we need to strengthen the stability and growth pact through preventive fiscal surveillance; we must put in place workable sanctions and they must be rules-based, as mr kallas said, and we need to get audit powers for eurostat... (the president cut off the speaker.)
colleagues, this is the round-up of a very important debate. i kindly ask you to try to keep your conversations to a minimum in this chamber and respect the commissioner’s final remarks. the commissioner has the floor.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am quite used to this but i would appreciate it if there were some interest in the house in what i am going to say. immediate crisis resolution, complete financial market reform and reinforcing economic governance: these are the three main tasks that we have to work on as soon as possible now. i agree with mr marinescu, who referred to the commission’s communication, and it is indeed more than anyone would have thought even half a year ago. please read those 10 pages of the communication on reinforcing economic governance in europe. ten pages sounds short, but it is full of concrete initiatives. this is heavy stuff, which is what we need in europe. i will come up with concrete proposals, legislative proposals, shortly. we have taken the initiative and we shall move on. mr verhofstadt said that we should not wait for the task force. well, we contribute actively and constructively to the work of the task force presided over by president herman van rompuy but, yes, we shall use our right of initiative and we shall soon put forward concrete legislative proposals on reinforcing economic governance. that is the essence of the community method and that is what you have also been calling for today, and rightly so. we do not have the luxury of time. instead we must act without delay. it is now absolutely essential to move on with these initiatives. i therefore want to conclude by saying that we need an alliance of institutions to pursue these objectives. the european union has always produced the best results by an alliance of the parliament and the commission, so i count on your support in this regard. it is also important that we bring the national parliaments on board by taking an inclusive approach, as mrs goulard has suggested. but, most importantly, please recall that the european parliament can help all of us in the european union to act more quickly and with determination. so please convince your constituencies and help us convince the member states, and not only the spanish presidency, which is very convinced. i trust you can, and will, make your voices heard, and i count on you taking a very strong and determined position in the europe 2020 resolution in the course of this session week of the parliament. dear friends, we need nothing more than full steam ahead to reinforce economic governance in europe.
the joint debate is closed. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
in writing. i voted against the proposal for a directive for the following reasons: 1. given the increased demand for organs for transplantation and the limited supply of organs for transplantation, which often forces patients to look for solutions to their problem beyond national borders, the establishment at community level of a common framework for safety and the application of high quality standards and the creation of a network of cooperation and mutual information are absolutely necessary for better protection of public health and patient care. 2. the national provisions governing the procedure for giving consent for organ donation, the choice of which remains within the competence of the member states, are not affected. the proposal for a directive, on the other hand, complements the existing legal framework in each eu country with specific quality and safety standards throughout the transplantation process, while ensuring the absence of any form of speculation, the preservation of anonymity and the security of personal data of both the donor and the recipient. 3. the smuggling of organs is minimised and the confidence of potential donors is enhanced, with the ultimate aim of increasing the number of donors. 4. member states shall impose penalties in cases of infringement of legislation on the identification of donors or recipients.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution because it does not allow the use of food additives and enzymes, such as thrombin, which are dangerous and affect food quality and consumer safety. the guarantees given by the commission are not only unconvincing and inadequate but they reinforce my concerns. in addition, the commission and the commissioner himself have not shown the necessary sensitivity, as was shown by their recent decision to authorise the cultivation of the genetically modified potato.
in writing. the numbers speak for themselves. some 60,000 patients are on a transplant waiting list in the eu member states. every day 12 of them lose their lives. the availability of organs varies widely across member states: the number of deaths per million population in the eu has increased from 33.8 deaths in spain to 1 death in romania. the gap between supply and demand for organs is exploited by criminal networks turning it into a profitable business. the commission's action plan on organ donation and transplantation has added value because the enhanced cooperation between member states it proposes will provide for increased availability of organs, improved efficiency and accessibility of transplantation systems, improved quality and safety of organs, and promotion and mutual exploitation of best practices. i voted in favour of the perello report because it proposes a set of priority actions that maximize the rate of donation by donors, introduce the appointment of transplant coordinators in all hospitals where organ donation is possible, aim to raise public awareness, improve the knowledge and skills of health professionals and patient support groups, and develop registries that facilitate the evaluation of post-transplant outcomes.
europe is still facing a multifaceted crisis, with employment and low incomes particularly affected. when the european union was starting, poverty existed only where there was no work. today, 9.6% of europeans are unemployed and 8% of the working population live below the poverty line. what is the outlook for 2020? the pressure of easy layoffs contributes to this combination of unemployment and poverty. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. there are proposals. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the logical consequence would be to exclude them from european subsidies, to have higher taxes, fines and reimbursements. the question is: is corporate responsibility included in the obligation of companies to act as part of society or do they consider it acceptable to behave as competitors of workers?
mr president, before i speak about the 2020 strategy, i think it is necessary to respond to some of the questions that have been raised earlier by one or two colleagues about the position of the greek centre-right party on the mechanism to support the greek economy. so let's get a few things straight. our party has never opposed the european mechanism for supporting greece. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the measures now being implemented are certain to lead the country into deep recession and stagflation. and these measures were decided by the government itself, without any prior information and consultation with the other greek political parties and greek society. the majority in government refused any prior consultation which could have led to a broad and necessary political and social consensus. i repeat, mr president, new democracy has not opposed the european support mechanism of the european union and the international monetary fund. we respect the last euro of our partners and thank them for their support. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the council. we have supported the need for strict budgetary discipline and for a development policy. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. as regards our discussion on the economic crisis and strategy 2020, mr president, i believe that the time has come for concrete action and tangible results. no more words! that is the point of my intervention. the euro is a historic success of european integration and we must defend and save it. that is why we need strong fiscal and economic governance, because without it, strategy 2020 risks failing to follow the precedent of the lisbon strategy. (the president agreed to answer the question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
mr president, your intervention is the result of a lack of information. the previous greek government received an economy deeply in debt, very deeply in debt, an economy on shaky foundations, and these problems, longstanding problems, deeply rooted for 30 years, came to the fore and made dramatic the great international economic crisis. of course, mistakes were made by the previous government, but much bigger ones, either because of weakness or lack of courage, were made by the present government, which delayed for at least five months in taking the necessary measures to contain the situation, and so the deficit crisis, which exists in all countries and which you know very well, became a borrowing crisis. and so, we have arrived at today's dramatic phenomena. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i agree with the previous speaker that the stability pact must be implemented! but before the stability pact, a few other things have to be implemented. the european union's decision-makers must be quick to react, to act when they have to. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the future. the european union needs its citizens to be economically strong and to be measurable in the world. citizens must be healthy, educated and have jobs. this is something the european union must take into account when it is planning for 2020, when it is planning for the single market. the single market must be citizen-centred and a single market with a human face.
mr president, today we are discussing, among others, two excellent reports by ricardo cortés lastra and lambert van nistelrooij. these both demonstrate in a clear fashion the important contribution of cohesion policy in achieving the goals of competitiveness and employment and the significant role in promoting innovation and growth that the knowledge economy plays. the eu 2020 strategy is on several counts similar to the lisbon strategy but tries to improve on focusing on and narrowing down the objectives. there is, however, one area – a quite significant one – that still remains unclear, namely the delivery mechanism. it is left to the member states and peer review supported by monitoring by the commission. it seems to me that we have not learned our lesson from the experience of the weak delivery of the lisbon strategy. i urge the commission to come up with proposals which will ensure a stronger delivery mechanism for the eu 2020 to make sure that all the targets of the strategy will be met with action and not just words.
the lisbon strategy, ladies and gentlemen, set high goals, but europe has failed to achieve them. we are moving towards a new strategy for the next decade, right, and in an extremely difficult and unfavourable environment. and we all agree that prioritizing and focusing on the development triangle 'education, research, innovation' is the best investment to get out of the crisis and allows us to be optimistic about the future of europe. it is important to stress that this strategy must be implemented in an atmosphere of solidarity, in an atmosphere of close cooperation between the member states. i would like to make it clear, mr president, that the mechanism for supporting greece, despite the delays, is a sign of this solidarity, and you can be sure that we do not recognise this. in new democracy, our centre-right party in greece, we have made it clear that we respect the money of other european peoples that goes into the formation of the support mechanism. but alongside the sacrifices that are required and that must be distributed fairly - and here we have been critical of certain measures - alongside the reduction in expenditure needed to reduce debt and reduce the deficit, there are also development initiatives that will lead the country out of recession, initiatives that we have not seen so far. only then will we in greece be able to approach the ambitious targets of the 2020 strategy, only then will we emerge stronger from the crisis. the president of the court of first instance accepts to answer the question 'blue card' by mrs sylvana rapti (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
i have the opportunity, on the occasion of the speech by my greek colleague, mr papanicolaou of the epp, to make the following clarification which i consider very important at this time of crisis and especially for greece: greece doesn't take money from other people. the european union countries borrow at a lower rate and lend to the mechanism and, through it, to greece, at a higher rate. we don't take money from other people.
that's exactly what it is, mrs. rapti. of course, these borrowing needs that exist now for greece would be smaller, and greece could more easily get money from the markets, if there had not been these delays, six months now, by the current greek government.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the report is a response to our communication on the dialogue between higher education and industry. i thank all those who have contributed to this, in particular the members of the committees on culture and education and on industry, research and energy. i would like to thank in particular the rapporteur, mr pál schmitt, who is now retiring. collaboration between universities and industry is an option, no, it is more, it is indispensable. the question is how to make it work for both sides. better, more intensive cooperation stimulates the exchange and transfer of knowledge in both business and academia. the contact with real problems and solutions through adapted curricula and internships enriches the students' learning experience and prepares them for their future professional activities. regular and long-term cooperation builds trust and can lead to ambitious partnerships and cooperation projects that benefit business and academia alike in terms of research, development and practice. new trends in the labour market and new technologies are changing the demands on university graduates and will continue to do so for decades to come. in order to maintain and improve the quality of life in europe, the workforce must be able to continually update its knowledge and skills, all the more so when taking into account the demographic development of europe in the coming years. we need an open, flexible and dynamic dialogue between all the parties involved. this is why the european commission has set up the eu forum for dialogue between higher education and business. the forum provides a platform for discussion, exchange of best practice and mutual learning for all participants. the european commission acts as a facilitator, helping to overcome the barriers between the two worlds. to date, we have hosted three eu forum for higher education business dialogue in brussels, as well as a series of thematic forums on topics such as curriculum development, entrepreneurship, lifelong learning, knowledge transfer, higher education leadership, mobility, new skills for new jobs and cooperation between higher education and business in the current crisis. in cooperation with the european training foundation (etf), a thematic forum addressed to third countries was held in december 2009 at the premises of the european parliament. a thematic forum was held in march 2010 to explore the possibility of extending the scope of the forum to include cooperation between schools and industry. the most recent forum for dialogue between higher education and industry was held in brussels on 4 and 5 may, focusing on cooperation between universities and small and medium-sized enterprises, cooperation between higher education and industry and innovation, cooperation between higher education and industry and the quality of education. these issues were also addressed in your report. i would like to take this opportunity to thank mrs doris pack for her participation in the opening session of this event. we appreciate the positive response to our communication which is reflected in your report today. we need more cooperation between the actors, based on mutual trust, respect and transparency. in this way, we not only drive economic growth, but also create social benefits in the broadest sense, helping people to navigate their way through an ever-changing world of society and work.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it was a pleasure to work with him, at least for the time i have been in parliament. ladies and gentlemen, the development triad of education, research and innovation, as we have stressed before and in the 2020 strategy, is crucial for the future of europe. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done. we all also recognize that in many member states the education system has weaknesses, both in quality and in the training of pupils and students. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and at that point, we have to use every tool at our disposal to help the young kids. mr scurria referred earlier to mobility. i add the new technologies and, of course, in addition to lifelong learning and formal education, that is universities, we have non-formal education and informal education, which also give skills to young people. education and work are intertwined concepts. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the development of the european social model, including the creation of a european social area. we all say that our young people must be equipped with skills and we all also know very well that today young people without skills have fewer opportunities. but what skills? the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's external relations. we have no time to lose, unemployment is rising, and it is up to all of us to ensure that this dialogue, this cooperation, is intensified as quickly as possible.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is now giving another 300 million, for a total of 850 million, not to mention the huge sums that have been given for repairs and increased security. i mean, this nuclear complex we've paid for in gold and for some it was a golden cow. the commission is nevertheless continuing to indirectly finance the nuclear lobby. we ask that no more bargaining be done with the bulgarian government. we call on parliament to ensure, together with the commission, the safe and efficient management of nuclear waste and to consider it part of the withdrawal programme. as greens, we are calling for the remaining 40% of the 300 million euro nuclear decommissioning programme to be channelled by the bulgarian government into radioactive waste management rather than into the development of environmentally harmful uranium and coal power plants. of course, i hope those who are thinking of bolstering the nuclear lobby with new construction have learned a lesson from turkey's recent agreement with russia to build a nuclear plant in akuyu, an earthquake-prone area where the anti-nuclear movement had prevented the construction of... i 'm not ... (the president cut off the speaker)
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - the mr president, in our report on the euro-mediterranean market we made sure that we mentioned the maintenance and development of the basic infrastructures that make up a unified and cohesive economy, and it is interesting that now with the economic crisis the conjuncture shows very clearly that there is a cohesion and common features in the south. let's keep that in mind for some future developments. i am particularly concerned about lng, which in the very short term can be the economic engine of the euro-mediterranean market economy, not only for supply but also for sale, and renewable energy, another form of economy for the euro-mediterranean, but which is more short-term. one note: the union's energy strategy and policy for northern europe is very well documented. we have a great weakness, commissioner, in energy policy and strategy in southern europe. (the president cut off the speaker)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to congratulate mr vincent peillon and the rapporteurs from the other committees, mrs de sarnez and mrs javela, on their report. the report on the union for the mediterranean is important because it focuses on immediate and measurable objectives. the results can be very concrete, since parliament is calling in the report for a specific budget to be given through the financial perspective, for the secretariat of the union for the mediterranean, which is located in barcelona, to be helped, and of course for the various conflicts that exist not to affect the very objective of the union, which is development, the pursuit of individual and human rights, cultural exchanges, energy issues and anything that can connect the mediterranean basin to the peoples who live there. the council and the spanish presidency, which i assume also has a special interest in the mediterranean union, are not here today, mr president, and i must say that this surprises me. the council should have heard what the rapporteur and the co-rapporteurs have said, and what is emphasized here, namely that this is an attempt to overcome the specific difficulties which have prevented the programmes from proceeding as they should. the conflict between palestinians and israelis is certainly not resolved through the union for the mediterranean, but certainly the presence of officials in the secretariat gives hope that there will be no pressure from conflict in our attempt to move the union for the mediterranean forward with the criteria examined earlier. mr president, it is of particular importance for the union for the mediterranean to also send a message about democratic development, equality between men and women and the search for civil society in the countries of north africa.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i must congratulate the author of the report, mr peillon, on his excellent report. the mediterranean basin is known to be a meeting point of many cultures, but it is also a region of neurological importance and a "pot" that has been boiling and boiling for many years. climate change, the economic and financial crisis, migration, pollution, overfishing and the degradation of the natural environment are some of the problems that are affecting europeans and non-europeans in the mediterranean basin. in particular, attention should be paid to the issue of illegal immigration, to effective control of the borders of the countries of the mediterranean basin, especially greece and italy, which are ports of entry for illegal immigrants into the european union. a daily battle is being fought on the borders of these countries. the emphasis should also be on strengthening cooperation in the field of energy, the exploitation of renewable energy sources and the exploitation of the mediterranean solar energy programme for the economic development of the southern mediterranean countries. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i should first like to congratulate the rapporteur on his comprehensive report. the union for the mediterranean can make a decisive contribution to the creation of a balanced euro-mediterranean relationship and to the strengthening of trust between the countries of the region. the mediterranean must be a region of peace, stability and security, where democratic principles and human rights are fully respected. the social and economic differences between the mediterranean countries are well known. the stakes are even higher because of the economic crisis. it is about the union's substantive rapprochement with the mediterranean countries through development, cooperation and trade. energy security, the fight against climate change and the marine environment are also areas where close cooperation is essential. the union for the mediterranean is not, of course, the framework for dealing with regional conflicts. however, cultivating a spirit of cooperation, political dialogue and joint effort on specific objectives are crucial to building the trust that is necessary to achieve sustainable solutions. the european union has a duty to ensure that the mediterranean is not left to the mercy of the mediterranean countries, and that the mediterranean is not left to the mercy of the mediterranean countries.
in writing. i voted against the report because it presents evidence which is particularly damaging to genuine sustainable development, the interests of workers and consumers in general in the eu. firstly, the rapporteur has not only drawn the wrong conclusions but has also started from the wrong basis for formulating his proposals, since he argues that 'the european single market together with the euro area best reflect the real meaning of economic integration and eu unity, and are undoubtedly the most visible achievement of european integration for eu citizens'. it forgets the lack of real social and political union and ignores the real conditions in many of the eurozone countries today. the social market economy, which is otherwise vague but which is essentially a question of liberalising the market at the expense of even the last vestiges of social policy, is particularly invoked. the rapporteur also fully endorses the logic of competitiveness and the eu2020 strategy, which is not only unfounded but will have even more negative consequences for the peoples of europe.
in writing. the high deficits and debt of many eu member states are indeed a major problem, having created the fiscal crisis we are all facing and have to manage. the reasons for these budgetary derogations are not, however, those which the rapporteur has identified. state budgets were derailed because: (c) tax competition has intensified with a clear reduction in corporate taxation over the past twenty years. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
in writing. cooperation between european countries and the other mediterranean countries, in order to be an effective lever for peace and prosperity and for the promotion of human rights, must be based on the principles of equal and mutually beneficial cooperation for the peoples of the region. it should contribute to the resolution of international and bilateral problems on the basis of the un charter and international law, with particular emphasis on the need for a just and sustainable solution for palestine, western sahara and cyprus. the report does not mention these things, nor does it mention the unacceptable conditions in which thousands of people are detained, travelling without travel documents to mediterranean islands and cities, and thereby violating the human dignity of all of us. in order to achieve real cooperation, the processes of dialogue and understanding must be strengthened, taking account of the region's asymmetries in all trade agreements, so as to ensure equality between all states. such cooperation should strengthen and promote social and cultural exchanges and contribute to the formulation of common policies and actions for environmental protection and the fight against climate change.
mr president, there is no doubt that the present economic crisis and the threat of recession in europe must be met by increased investment. the main concern is therefore to secure the resources to finance the projects. and to implement the budget, i would like to reiterate an old proposal: i propose that we consider issuing european bonds to finance major european development programmes, such as pan-european high-speed motorways, new technologies to combat climate change at pan-european level, the creation of a single accounting system for health, major investments in energy and a single maritime system. i believe, mr president, that we must respond to the danger of recession with coordinated and immediate action. time is of the essence!
madam president, i would like to thank mr cashman very much for the excellent work he has done. we must all support this report wholeheartedly, and send the message to the member states that they must be consistent with their commitments to the millennium development goals, to combat poverty. in the midst of this economic crisis, which - we must not forget this - may affect us, but also affects the developing countries, it is the products of the developing countries that we often do not consume and in these countries poverty is increasing, all these indicators that we want to address with the millennium goals are increasing. at the same time, climate change, which we've caused, is making it harder to access food, water, health services. it's deteriorating the health itself. so we need additional resources to both tackle climate change and to help these countries adapt to climate change. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a proper manner. i am very pleased that commissioner hedegaard has said that the commission supports this request.
madam president, i thank the rapporteur for the very good work he has done. the failure to achieve the interim targets should be a matter of serious concern, both because of the reluctance of some member states and because of the objective economic weaknesses caused by the crisis. i would like to make a specific point: the interim objective 8 which refers to aid from developed countries to developing countries, a point which has already been mentioned by several colleagues. although the interim objective was to increase aid to developing countries to 0.56% of world gdp, today we are at only 0.3% at world level, i.e. half the target, and at european level only 0.4%. and of course, to this is added the moral dilemma of whether the resources we have are being put where they should be, to those who really need them and not squandered through corrupt practices and governments. i would like to conclude by stressing, madam president, that we need a development logic, an economic approach to these facts and not just covering up the guilt of the developed countries towards the developing countries.
madam president, i too would like to thank the rapporteur for the very fruitful cooperation we have had. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. indeed, the process was extremely difficult. but the conclusions are fruitful. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of the accused are protected, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we expect a great deal from the commission in terms of implementation and tangible results after the incorporation of this directive. we have high expectations. we hope that it will change a lot. it is important, however, as my colleagues have rightly said, not to leave everything to the last minute.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her very good work. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. and we're talking about, in a way, a revolution in communication, in the way that people and things and devices communicate with each other. but alongside the challenge of the subject under discussion - and it is a credit to our parliament that we have this debate today and all these actions and this report - we must also look at the risks involved in this as the use of radio frequency identification technologies which involve access to privacy. and the danger that comes with that is clear: access on one side and protection on the other, broadband versus privacy. the concerns are obvious. who will command the new technology? what about sensitive personal data? how private is this data of ours going to be? how good of a security there will be? what is needed is balance in this new technology. a technology which should be reliable; a technology which, when processing such data, fully respects fundamental rights and the principles of personal data protection.
mr president, i too support the colour labelling. i would like to make one other point. every hour, virgin rain forests the size of 300 football fields are being converted into palm groves. this is done in order to get the palm oil that is used in the production of the food that we find on our shelves. but this information is being withheld from our fellow citizens. i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of amendment no 263 which states that it should be mandatory to mention the presence of palm oil on the food that our fellow citizens find on the shelves so that our fellow citizens do not finance global deforestation, loss of biodiversity and climate change without wanting to and without knowing it. with our vote tomorrow in this room, we will decide whether citizens can take environmental responsibility for their food choices or whether they unwittingly fund corporations to destroy the environment and our common future.
mr president, commissioner, first of all let me express my absolute satisfaction with your comment a moment ago on the surprise and unjustified decision yesterday by the credit rating agency moody's to downgrade greece's credit rating; the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the information it has received from the european parliament, and it is therefore in the interests of the european parliament that the commission should be able to take a decision on the basis of the information it has received from the european parliament. as regards today's debate and the proposal for a revision of the regulation on the quality of statistical data in the context of the excessive deficit procedure, we all know that it follows the so-called 'greek case' in terms of the falsification of statistical data. as a greek mep, i am obviously not happy that greece is being used as an example to avoid in such a debate. i would like to remind you, commissioner, that it was greece, the present greek government, which first recognised the problem and immediately took radical decisions to deal with it, firstly by making the national statistical office a fully independent authority under the supervision of parliament and secondly by setting up a committee of inquiry to investigate and hold accountable those involved in this unacceptable procedure. however, we must recognize that this debate is being held at european level with some delay, as there were sufficient elements that should have mobilized us as early as 2005.
mr president, i think you are in flagrant breach of the rules of procedure of the european parliament. this is an unacceptable method. it is unacceptable that there is no clear record of who votes 'for', who 'against' and who 'white'. we can see from the touch of the buttons that the "after" is not recorded. you must order a clear record of the vote, a record of who votes "for", who "against" and who "white".
mr president, i hate to have to prolong this further. what you said in your instructions was that people could either vote in favour or abstain. the final results show, however, ‘in favour’, ‘abstentions’ and ‘against’. i understand that there may be many people who would have voted differently if they had known they had the choice of the three. what i would like to ask is, if indeed this is the correct way to do it, to do it one last time.
the rapporteur. - the mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the motivation for this report on the transparency of regional policy and its financing was that the full presentation of the beneficiaries of european union funds allows citizens to participate in a meaningful debate on how european public money is spent. this is essential for the functioning of democracy at european level. this report, which was commissioned by the committee on regional development, contains recommendations which should be included in future regulations on the structural funds, such as the provision of additional necessary information when publishing lists of beneficiaries and sufficiently binding rules on partnership. other proposals that can be implemented under current cohesion programmes include, for example: - the commission should define a more detailed and descriptive presentation which would specify the structure, form and content of the information to be provided. - the link between the european transparency initiative and the new financial and accounting controls. - a tougher line by the auditors on communication and information requirements, including 'naming and shaming' and the use of financial corrections in confirmed cases of fraud. - closer involvement of regional and local authorities and other relevant partners in all stages of planning and implementation of cohesion and full access to all project documents. - more guidance from the commission on how to apply the partnership clause in practice in the context of ongoing programmes and improved transparency in community financing of major projects. i would like to thank once again the shadow rapporteurs of the other political groups for this final text which we have been able to produce.
mr president, just to understand, what you are telling us is that, for the vote on a vice-president, it is impossible ever not to get a qualified majority, because, if you can only vote in favour or be taken down as abstention, and if abstentions do not count towards the total vote, then by definition you always get a qualified majority. is that what you are saying?
in writing. i voted against because yes, there are positive points in the report and efforts to introduce some minimum restrictions and rules on the derivatives market, but in reality the issue is not really addressed. the main cause of economic and financial instability is, inter alia, the development and growth of off-balance-sheet transactions, which include risk insurance and other financial derivatives. the recent collapse of the money markets and speculation against greek bonds have shown that the financial system needs not only strict regulation but also the prohibition of certain transactions, such as the transactions of risk insurers. in my view, it would be wrong and inadequate to focus only on 'regulatory policies' such as those presented in the report, which neither give the problem the right dimension nor provide adequate solutions.
in writing. the internet is a global public good and should be operated in the public interest. it is necessary to establish a specific infrastructure in internet governance to ensure its security, integrity and resilience and to reduce the likelihood of cyber-attacks. open global cooperation on internet governance is essential and we must seek to draw up a european charter of internet users' rights and recognise the eu's fifth fundamental freedom, internet access. that is why i voted today in favour of the report by the committee on industry, research and energy on internet governance, noting that the eu must establish a strategy that includes non-discriminatory access to the internet, ensuring net neutrality, respect for privacy, data protection, freedom of expression and protection of minors. particular emphasis should be placed on this group of the population which is most vulnerable to cyberattacks and the necessary restrictions should be imposed to protect minors to the greatest extent possible, while promoting international cooperation in the fight against illegal and harmful content on the internet.
in writing. the strategy for the next decade (eu 2020) sets as a second key objective to increase investment in research and development to 3% of gdp by 2020. this own-initiative report calls on the commission to take concrete and ambitious initiatives in the face of the failure of the lisbon strategy in this area. it is noted that r & d expenditure in europe is currently below 2%, compared to 2,6% in the usa and 3,4% in japan, mainly due to lower levels of private investment. the change in the labour market due to the current economic crisis and the changing production process makes it necessary to develop the field of innovation which will bring not only technological but also social added value.
president of the commission. − the commission is doing its part through the community budget. in fact, on several occasions, we proposed additional funding to the member states. i remember for instance in the g8 in japan i proposed an additional eur 1 billion for helping rural development in africa and in other developing parts of the world, to come from the unspent money. now, to fulfil all the commitments on the european side, most of it has to come from the national budgets. in the current framework, with the current financial perspectives, we cannot be much more flexible. so that is what we are doing – speaking with our member states so that we can in fact deliver on our previous commitments.
on behalf of the efd group. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council on the subject of the future of the community. the present economic crisis and the threat of recession in europe must be met mainly by increasing investment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. my question is this: do you think, as the political leader of europe's economic development and the commission as a body, that the issue of european bonds to finance european development mega-investments, such as transeuropean high-speed motorways, transeuropean research on climate change, e-health, a pan-european shipping system or major investments in energy, such as lng terminals in the euro-mediterranean: large pan-european investment projects to be covered by the issue of bonds, can be considered?
president of the commission. − we hope these issues will be addressed in the next financial perspectives. indeed, already in the eu 2020 we are making everything to do with these interconnections a priority for future financing at european level, be this in energy, in transport, or in other forms of immaterial connections, such as the digital agenda. this is very much one of the sectors where we believe there is value added, where a euro spent at european level makes more sense than one spent at national level because there is a european rationale for this kind of investment. how to finance that does of course have to be discussed with the member states. this is a very difficult time to discuss budgets with our member states, but we believe we can make a strong case for stronger interconnections at european level.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i do not think i have received my answer. do you think that we can counter the risk of recession by coordinated and immediate action at european level by issuing european bonds? let us not forget that we are facing a great competitive world market, india, china, america. will europe respond with large-scale investment on a pan-european scale? will eurobonds play a role in covering these investments? what do you have in mind?
president of the commission. − you are right. we have made reference to the 3%, but we have not just mentioned research and development but also the concept of innovation, since this is not only a question of basic research but how research is translated into economic activity. what can research do to produce more growth and more employment? as you know, there is not a well-established indicator for innovation, which is a technical issue dividing some experts. i personally have been discussing this with the oecd for instance. the secretary-general of the oecd and some of his experts came to brussels recently, and we are working with them and others to have an indicator of innovation that could be agreed upon by the academic community and the policy-making community. that is what we are doing, and we certainly want to do so in open consultation, so we very much welcome all contributions to this. it is a highly technical point, but i believe that it is critically important that we develop better indicators for innovation.
president of the commission. - i think that without financial sustainability we will not have social sustainability. because without financial sustainability there is no confidence, without confidence there is no investment, without investment there is no employment, and that is why stable and sound macroeconomic policies and concern for the most vulnerable and poverty should not be set against each other. with regard to poverty, we ourselves have set as one of the objectives of the 2020 strategy the fight against poverty, the fight for social inclusion, even with some concrete objectives, and i agree that there is, today, a greater risk of poverty in our societies. we are witnessing new phenomena of poverty, which are extremely worrying. that is why governments must, as part of their priorities, consider how to respond to this question, but the solution - i repeat and insist - cannot be budgetary indiscipline, because if that is the solution we are likely to have a worsening of the situation of countries, including the most vulnerable in those same countries.
president of the commission. − the package put forward by greece and the european institutions is for the benefit of the greek people and the european economy overall. if this were not the case, it would not have been approved by the 27 member states. regarding the insinuation you make, i really believe that it does not deserve any kind of answer.
mr president, it seems that the german and french governments agree that the european union does not need new institutions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, it seems - as has been said - that we are moving towards a new amendment to the stability pact, which will impose sanctions, such as the withdrawal of voting rights, on member states which do not respect budgetary discipline. my question is simple: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the budget for the financial year 2000 and whether he is prepared to accept the amendments proposed by the committee on budgets. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there are problems which we have found repeatedly. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i'm the editor. - the mr president, today's debate in the european parliament is about the activities of rating agencies and their impact on the world and european economy. the european union and the european central bank have, by regulations, given rating agencies moody's, snp, fitch the right to rate not only companies but also the member states of the european union themselves. at the outbreak of the crisis the very institutions of the european union recognised the very negative role played by the rating agencies. so while one would expect the european commission to limit the role of these houses, on the contrary, with a newer regulation in november 2009, their role is being upgraded and formalized. the commission notes that the bank of greece has not provided any information on the amount of the loan, but that the bank of greece has provided information on the amount of the loan, which is not available. the final results are known to all of us. yesterday, moody's tried to create a negative climate for the greek economy and the euro again with a crude speculative intervention by downgrading the situation of the greek economy by 4 points without substantial justification. moody's is one of the three american private companies which the european union officially recognizes as the evaluators of the economies of the member states, despite the fact that it is denounced by all the economic, political and institutional actors in europe and america as having enormous responsibilities for the recent crisis. specifically, this is the company that was reported by former analysts to the us congress that they were forced by their superiors to make positive assessments of toxic securities. it's this company that's being sued by dozens of companies for blackmailing the ratings for payment. it's this company that along with the rest of the holy trinity of ratings agencies snp and fitch has received dozens of lawsuits from cities, counties and states across the united states that were misled and forced to invest and lose millions of dollars. it's this company that's being sued by a lot of hedge funds for losing investments because of mispricing. in the case of the ohio state insurance fund alone, $450 million was lost. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. but instead, mr barnier, we are still seeing the commission stalling, so that the mafia of speculators can continue to blackmail and steer economic policy at the expense of the workers and citizens of the countries of the european union. i think that the european parliament must finally take up its responsibilities, intervene, and demand that the european commission and the council, taking account of the european parliament, legislate immediately to put an end to this unacceptable situation.
mr president, commissioner, today's debate on the framework for the supervision and control of the operation of credit rating agencies is unfortunately becoming even more timely after yesterday's decision by moody's to downgrade greece's credit rating by 4 whole points. this is certainly not the first time in recent months that greece's credit rating has been significantly downgraded. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial instruments for the period from 1 january 1999 to 31 december 2000 is a step in the right direction, and it is a step which will be taken in the light of the conclusions of the european council in copenhagen on the financial instruments for the period from 1 january 1999 to 31 december 2000. is it reasonable, mr commissioner, that at a time when the president of the european central bank, the head of deutsche bank and the spokesman for the european commission are congratulating the greek government on the progress made in implementing the memorandum, thus contributing to the recovery of the euro against the dollar and to the recovery of european money markets, that moody's should further degrade greece by making the opposite assessment? it is obvious that i think this move highlights precisely the conflict of interest as it not only undermines greece's efforts to fiscal consolidation, but gives the impetus to continue the speculative attacks of the markets against the greek economy and the euro area as a whole. this confirms once again that these firms are rating without ensuring their credibility and without checking the motives and results of their ratings, which raises serious questions of democracy and national and european sovereignty as we speak about the rating of euro area economies. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. the question, however, is what we are doing to shield european economies from the speculation caused by these controversial and opaque assessments. immediate action is needed at two levels: the first is to launch the creation of a competitive european rating agency and the second is to establish a rigorous and reliable framework for the functioning of these agencies. an operational framework setting transparent and uniform standards for the evaluation criteria, for the timing of publication of the evaluation in relation to the reaction generated in the markets and finally for the evaluation of the evaluation in depth over time in terms of its accuracy and reliability.
mr president, commissioner, the downgrade of greece's credit rating by moody's yesterday, as other colleagues have mentioned, does indeed raise a number of questions. i would like to add one more element to this, to try to understand whether the framework for the operation of these houses is ultimately clean, transparent and institutionalized. most private lawsuits against these companies in the united states are not justified because of a 1933 law that states that rating agencies are not liable for amounts lost due to their erroneous assessments. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the speculative game knows no bounds, no borders, and the absence of a european legislative framework puts the european union and all countries on great adventures. we must realize that a free economy does not mean the law of the jungle, it does not mean dehydration. and where this is not understood, understood, we must respond with our legislation, we must enforce it with the law. you spoke, mr president, of more competitive, more numerous houses. we expect a lot from the commission in the coming period.
member of the commission. - madam president, i would like to thank each of the speakers again for their approval and for their complementary remarks. it is clear that the text which will be voted on is a compromise text, dynamic. as such, it cannot take up all the ideas, all the suggestions that have been made, but at the same time i think that parliament, mr klinz, your committee, the juri committee and others have many reasons to be satisfied because the current text has benefited greatly - i say it as i think it - from your comments, your proposals, your constructive criticism throughout the negotiation process. many of the amendments tabled by you and other members of the econ committee have been incorporated into the text, particularly, i would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the scope of the directive, the provisions on the key information to be included in the summary of the prospectus or the rules applicable to employees or the 'subscription' - if i may use that expression - of the prospectus directive. mr feio referred to the conflict between investor protection and the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises. i would remind him that a proportionate prospectus will be developed for small and mediumsized enterprises. mr cutaş also mentioned this commitment, this special treatment for small and mediumsized enterprises. this proportionate prospectus will therefore be developed, mr feio, for small and medium-sized enterprises at level 2 while respecting investor protection. another point raised by mrs essayah was the issue of qualified investors and the treatment of individuals. the directive takes full account of the differences between the two. i would remind you that the summary will be fundamental to ensuring the proper and fair protection of individuals. ladies and gentlemen, the commission can accept all the amendments and therefore supports the text, as i have already said to mr klinz, the various speakers from the groups, mr feio, mrs stihler, mr schmidt and mrs ford, who have approved this good compromise on behalf of their group. we are convinced that this directive will make a difference in strengthening investor protection and reducing the administrative burden on issuers, and that it will further contribute to the development of a genuine capital market in the european union. do not miss this opportunity! i would like to end by thanking mr garcía-margallo for his contribution, because, beyond this text, which is a real step forward, he has placed this step forward in a more general context, which he is also working on very effectively in the supervisory package under discussion, the transparency package. i would remind you that the revision we are talking about improves the transparency elements, adapts it to issuers, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, while respecting - i repeat - investor protection. the monitoring element was included in the monitoring package, the omnibus text, and it is on this text that mr garcía-margallo, together with other of his colleagues, is working, calling us to collective audacity. you have shown this through this text, which is progress, and i hope that we will all show it together, with the council, in the equally dynamic compromises that we will have to find in the coming days on other texts that are currently under discussion, the regulation of hedge funds and private equity and above all the great european supervisory project that we need for this text, for the rating agencies that we were talking about earlier and for many other subjects of regulation, transparency, control, which are the lessons we must draw from the crisis. it's our responsibility.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 16 june 2010.
the next item is the debate on: - oral question to the council on the revision of the multiannual financial framework, by reimer böge, on behalf of the committee on budgets (o-0074/2010 b7-0310/2010), and - oral question to the commission on the revision of the multiannual financial framework, by reimer böge, on behalf of the committee on budgets (o-0075/2010 b7-0311/2010).
acting president of the council. - good afternoon. i thank the honourable members of the european parliament for giving me the opportunity to answer their questions on this very important subject. i should first of all point out that the european council of december 2005 did not agree that the multiannual financial framework should be revised. the commission was invited to undertake a full and in-depth examination of all components of the european union's expenditure and resources and to report on this. the european council also stated that it would be possible to take decisions on all the aspects covered by this examination on the basis of this examination, which would be taken into account in the preparatory work for the next financial framework. the commission has not yet submitted this study. the council does not consider that there is at this moment any great or great need to revise the current multiannual financial framework, and this is especially so because account must be taken of the budgetary and macroeconomic situation which the member states are currently going through. the council's position is therefore that any new needs must be financed by prioritizing or redistributing the appropriations currently allocated. in any case, any decision to revise the multiannual financial framework requires a proposal from the commission, and this proposal has not yet been received. however, it is clear that any decision to revise this financial framework should be taken, as is obvious, in compliance with the treaty, including article 312 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i would like to take this opportunity to reiterate the council's position, as set out in its budgetary guidelines for 2011 which were adopted on 16 march and presented to this parliament during the tripartite dialogue held on 25 march this year. in particular, the council agrees with the commission that the lisbon legislative package should be a technical exercise and should not involve a modification of the content of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management. i should stress the importance of adopting the lisbon legislative package as quickly as possible so that the new requirements laid down by the new treaty can be transposed into law without undue delay. as part of this process, the council is ready to start discussions with the european parliament on the lisbon legislative package. i am grateful for the opportunity offered by the honourable members' question to set out the council's position on this matter and i shall be happy to answer any other questions which members may feel it appropriate to put.
member of the commission. − madam president, i will start directly with serious answers to the questions, as, if reimer böge is asking the questions, that is sufficient reason to take them seriously. as regards the question on the revision of the financial framework, the report on the functioning of the interinstitutional agreement is now in your hands. this analyses the flexibility and the margins – not as a goal in itself, but in the context of possible new developments. the conclusion is very clear that the margins are very tight in almost all the headings. we cannot expect, for example, heading 2 (agriculture) to supply additional needs whenever there are new needs to be financed. the commission can only present proposals for the revision of the financial framework when the precise needs are known and cannot be covered by other means, which is not the case so far. even with iter, we need commitment for the long-term financing of this large-scale project. as regards the lines identified as conducive to the 2020 strategy for green, smart and inclusive growth, we have identified around eur 58 billion in the 2011 draft budget, which is 40% of the budget conducive to these goals listed in the 2020 strategy. moving on to the second question about the procedure, the commission’s basic logic was to align the provisions of the current interinstitutional framework with the new framework of the lisbon treaty. the goal was to preserve as much continuity as possible and make as little change as is needed by the new treaty, but on the basic assumption of preserving the same level of flexibility and the same balance of powers between institutions. we know what is pending given our assumptions. the pending issue is the so-called ‘zero zero free flexibility’ that has been conducive to conciliation since 2007. everybody who was part of the conciliation is aware that this was necessary and that is why we should defend it. this was the provision about the council acting by qualified majority to compensate and revise, which has been done on several occasions since 2007. i think there is nothing in the letter and spirit of the new treaty to contradict that level of flexibility, and we are going to be very flexible when it comes to the new innovative drafting of this flexibility article in the multiannual financial framework. the new budgetary review that is delayed should be the occasion to rise up to the political vision for the future, as clearly stated by reimer böge. this is the vocation, not the report on interinstitutional agreement, so we hope to be up to the expectations of parliament and are as usual ready to cooperate.
thank you, mr obermayr. we note the request and will move the matter to the floor.
in writing. the lisbon treaty sets new priorities for the eu, while the europe 2020 strategy sets ambitious targets in key areas for the future of the eu that are changing the data on which the current multiannual financial framework is based. in particular, the consequences of the recent economic crisis, which have not yet been fully understood and will continue to expand, have shown that the challenges we are called upon to address are changing dramatically over time and require adjustments at many levels for our policies to be effective. however, we all know that any new policy, initiative or programme developed by the eu cannot be implemented without the corresponding funds. the margins of the current mff are very narrow, suffocating i would say, and leave no room for manoeuvre in the coming years, while it is characteristic that the margins under titles 1a and 4 cannot be used to deal with unforeseen needs. the current mff must therefore be revised urgently in order to provide the necessary resources to enable the eu to implement its commitments and to respond to the growing demands of european citizens. time passing is time of missed opportunities.
member of the commission. − part of the programme is to focus attention on people contact, with young people and with students. on the other hand, what is very much on my agenda for the talks in minsk is not only the general issues related to human rights violations, but also the specific questions concerning minorities. i am paying particular attention to this issue. i had a meeting with ms andżelika borys and other representatives of the belarus opposition, discussing not only the state of the polish minorities in belarus, but also the ways in which the commission and the european union could help them. i do not consider this an isolated issue. i do not consider this a ballot issue, as some might portray. it is indeed a serious question. the relationship between the authorities and minorities is going to be raised during my talks in minsk.
member of the commission. − i want to thank mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou for a very pertinent question – or rather a set of questions – because the image and credibility of the euro is an issue of major concern for all of us europeans at this critical juncture and these difficult times. the euro is not only a monetary arrangement, it is also a core political project – if not the core political project – of the european union. therefore the fate of the euro, the image of the euro, the credibility of the euro has major implications for the overall european project. i have here a carefully calibrated draft answer of four pages which i asked my services to prepare. i am tempted to read it out, but it would take some 12 minutes of your time. however, i am ready to make this available and i can also put it on my website. this is not only a matter of media actions and campaigns – no matter how important they are – it is also a matter of policies and concrete actions in order to defend the euro from the systemic attacks it has been under recently. i would just say in passing that we are carrying out regular quantitative surveys. we have regular flash eurobarometer surveys which we conduct in all member states – we have done it in different waves. we are using every opportunity to actively communicate the latest developments and policy actions taken in respect of the euro and economic and monetary union. the concerns of the general public are addressed through all available channels, such as the website, publications, questions and answers, leaflets as well as various networks dealing with economic policy making, trade unions, employers’ organisations and so on and so forth. we are working on all fronts together with the member states in order to get the message across concerning the euro. as regards the policies which are at the heart of the matter, and this deals with part ‘b’ of mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou’s question: what measures are being envisaged to improve the image of the common currency and its credibility in the eyes of the public? i want to make three points on this. first we have decided on a very substantial financial backstop called the european financial stability mechanism and facility – almost eur 500 billion – which, together with the rescue package for greece on coordinated and conditional financial assistance, has helped to stop the bush fire of financial uncertainty before it has turned into a forest fire all over europe. we are taking concrete steps in order to safeguard financial stability and the euro in europe. secondly, our member states are making great efforts in fiscal consolidation. in fact there is a wave of fiscal consolidation and structural reform going on in europe in order to restore and reinforce confidence and credibility in the euro and the economic and monetary union. we are not doing it without careful calibration; we are doing it in a coordinated and differentiated manner so that those countries with no or little fiscal space, such as greece, spain and portugal, have to accelerate fiscal consolidation. while many other countries still have fiscal space, they should not start consolidation before next year – this is to ensure that we do not suffocate the current ongoing economic recovery. just today we presented a total of 15 excessive-deficit procedures, and on the basis of our assessment our member states’ strategies of fiscal consolidation are in line with this coordinated and differentiated fiscal exit strategy. finally, reinforcing economic governance is absolutely essential in order to reinforce the credibility of the euro and i do indeed count on your support when you vote on the resolution on europe 2020 and on reinforcing economic governance. we need your support in order to convince the european council – convince the member states – and keep up the momentum so that we can have these more rigorous systems of budgetary and economic surveillance and policy coordination in place by the beginning of next year.
mr president, commissioner, thank you very much for your reply and for the opportunity you have given us all to recall the policy of supporting the single currency and the survival of the euro area. the spirit of my question was more about the communication we have to put in place, because the citizens do not understand these technical and unprecedented issues in the economic life of europe and do not share them and there is a risk that they feel that supporting the euro has a cost and not a certain future. the scripts and threats of countries leaving the single currency are not contributing to this. it is the joint responsibility of the member states and the european institutions to support this achievement of the euro, but public opinion needs support measures that go beyond the fiscal adjustment of their countries.
member of the commission. − i agree with your way of reasoning and i think it is essential that we see the euro as a key policy instrument for economic policy and sustainable growth in europe and at the same time that we look at it not only as a symbol but also as a bond for europeans in building the common european home. in this regard, we have organised a broad range of communication activities. for instance in the first half of 2010 – i will just give you the highlights – we carried out an information campaign on the key benefits of the euro in 10 euro-area countries: germany, france, italy, portugal, the netherlands, spain, austria, finland, malta and belgium. we also organised the brussels economic forum, devoted to economic and financial issues, which took place two weeks ago. a record number of policy areas, more than 1 000, were agreed on and the event was widely reported by the media. this was clearly a case of reaching out to the opinion makers and trying to have a multiplier effect through this important forum. i could continue the list. we are engaged in these activities and i think we will achieve the best results by having the right policies and having the right kind of campaigns in order to ensure that our people are well informed. in my youth i trained as a spare-parts salesman; i started at 12 and i ended that career at 20. we always had a very clear philosophy: that you have to have the product right before you can market it well: you need both. you need a solid product, solid policies and you need a sound marketing campaign in order to win the hearts and minds of our people.
i'm the editor. - the mr president, commissioner, i listened very carefully to your reply. i do not know whether the twelve-page memorandum you mentioned contains an answer to one aspect of the colleague's question, namely the accession of new countries to the euro area and the prospect of such accession. i know - and you know - that the new member is estonia. what we are seeing is that in order to join the euro, these countries are implementing tough fiscal consolidation programmes, with the result that today in estonia there are drastic cuts in the salaries of public servants, unemployment has reached 20% and youth unemployment is many times higher. my question is: is this image of a front room for the eurozone attractive? is she reliable ? does it create conditions for further sustainability?
member of the commission. − i do not want to enter into any kind of blame game. my view is that politics, and economic policy-making in the european union, is always a matter of political will but also the art of what is possible. this time it became possible at some point to take those decisions, to provide conditional and coordinated financial assistance for greece, and later on to create the european financial stability mechanism. these are now working. concerning greece, the first tranches of a total of eur 20 billion from the eu and the imf were sent to greece in mid-may. greece is implementing its joint eu-imf programme in time and according to the memorandum of understanding. moreover, the recently decided european financial stability mechanism and facility are readily available, so that the community instrument, which is up to eur 60 billion, can use the union budget as loan guarantees for possible operations. this is up and running. it is readily available, if requested and if genuinely needed. meanwhile, the special purpose vehicle of up eur 440 billion, the intergovernmental arrangement which is also called the european financial stability facility, is going to be ratified by 90% of the volume, which is the criterion, by the end of this month and it will be operational a few weeks after that. this means that, if we have an immediate and pressing need, we have the tools to tackle this with this mechanism and this facility. my final point is that this only buys us time, and the essence is that we have to engage in a very serious campaign of fiscal consolidation in europe, where the past two years have wiped out 20 years of fiscal consolidation in the past two decades.
vice-president of the commission. − i would like to answer the oral question tabled by mrs mcguinness by saying that, although the responsibility of organising and administering residential care lies with member states, the commission is keen to promote the right of people with disabilities to live independently by supporting services in the community as an alternative to living in institutions. by the end of this year the commission will have adopted a european disabilities strategy for the years 2010-20, which will set out a coherent framework for implementing the un convention on the rights of persons with disability. providing support for people with disabilities to live independently and de-institutionalising all the systems will be among the priorities. in particular it will highlight the potential role of the structural funds in this regard. priorities for the use of structural funds are of course set at national and regional level, but the commission will work with the member states on the exchange of good practice and guidelines as to how best to use those funds in order to promote the personal autonomy and the right of persons with disabilities to live independently. i would also like to mention the european social fund as an instrument to eliminate the barriers to the participation of people with disabilities as equal members of society. the social fund can finance, among other things, counselling, training adapted to the specific needs of people with disabilities, rehabilitation, job creation in sectors such as social economy, special support to promote entrepreneurship among persons with disabilities, and awareness raising campaigns to combat discrimination. it can also provide training and retraining of staff to facilitate the transition from institutional care to community-based services. the european regional development fund can be used concurrently to develop social infrastructure to support such new services. in this regard, the commission has drawn up a tool kit for using the structural funds in order to ensure access for, and non-discrimination against, people with disabilities. this tool kit is designed in order to allow the management authorities, the intermediate bodies or the project promoters to prepare, implement, monitor and evaluate the structural fund programmes and projects.
vice-president of the commission. − if there is a misuse of structural funds in general, the commission can intervene, but there is of course the primary obligation and responsibility of the member state in order to bring forward their policy agenda and organise their own social protection systems, including those people in long-term care institutions. the question, of course, is: could we veto it if the member states are continuing to invest in a different way? you know that the structural funds are spent on a system of shared responsibility between the commission and the member states. however, it is up to the member states and their regions to manage the programmes and to implement them by selecting programmes and projects. nevertheless, even if we cannot veto, we have already been working together with member states in order to change the policy in the member states. for instance, with the bulgarian government we have for two years had a cooperative approach under which the government did not use the money in residential institutions, but undertook that no eu funds would be spent on investing in existing residential institutions and that for any investment in these sectors, the principle of de-institutionalisation would be followed.
vice-president of the commission. − i am very well aware that a change of regime also means a change in the way you approach the remnants of past policy. of course, it is up to the governments to decide how they are going to care for their institutions and whether or not they want to renovate their property and give it another use. i can only tell you that, as regards de-institutionalisation to bring disabled people into society and not leave them in institutions, we have tried to make the commission staff responsible for discussions with the member states aware of these aspects. on 29 april 2010, dg regio held a seminar for commission staff called ‘would you call this home?’, where best and worst practice in the use of eu funds for dismantling long-stay institutions were presented, so that our staff could understand which policies need to be applied in trying to change the mentality in their contacts with the administrations in the member states. there has also been very good interaction between dg regio and dg employment on further steps which could be taken, because we believe that social fund investment should serve the population in those areas. it should not only be used for renovating houses, but should also be used for creating jobs and growth in the areas concerned.
i would like to ask you, mr president, commissioner, about a very topical and, i believe, very specific matter. in my country, in greece, and possibly in other countries, austerity programmes are cutting social spending and in many cases cutting off funding to centres and institutions that provide services to the disabled. i have before me a recent example of this: a unique centre that provides services to people, and especially children, who are visually impaired and have other disabilities. fifty children were left to their own devices because of lack of money. i ask you: can these 50 children hope that this institution will be eligible for european social fund funding? what can we do about it?
mr president, i too would point out the lack of rational allocation of time. mr president, i was also in the committee on agriculture and voting and i left the committee on agriculture and voting to be consistent at this time of parliamentary scrutiny. it is clear that you have not allocated the time between the various parts of the parliamentary control properly. you allowed supplementary questions in a very flexible way. i think we should also show respect to the commissioners, to mr barnier. that is what the parliamentary system demands. and i say this to you, mr president, who i personally appreciate. you come from the country where the modern parliamentary democracy was established. but parliamentary democracy has order, it has rules, it has principles. i'm very sorry about what happened tonight. it does not honour anyone and it does not honour parliament, but it does not honour the bureau either, mr president.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, i would like to note that a lot of words have been said, but we have heard little about the 'by the way'. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. i say this because unfortunately they do not address the problems that give rise to this unacceptable situation for women. in my opinion, if today in greece the retirement age for women is being raised from 5 to 17 years, this is due both to the capitalist system and to strategy 2020, which is not in dispute. i do not know how the commissioner can talk about various measures for equality for women when she does not question this strategy. whatever measure you take, commissioner, you cannot overturn strategy 2020 because you do not even question it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, mr barroso, mr president, i hear you yesterday and today talking about smart and sustainable growth. mr. lópez, i heard you talking about a historic step. i have the impression that you have lost your sense of european social reality or are consciously indifferent to it. in the name of budgetary discipline and competitiveness, austerity programmes have taken the form of an epidemic, from ireland, greece, italy, spain, portugal to germany; programmes which, in holy alliance with the international monetary fund, are anti-economic, anti-social, anti-development. in greece this means that the basic pension will go up to 360 euros, redundancies will be freed up and wages in the public and private sectors will be cut by 30%. for all these people, mr barroso, mr lópez, the workers who are losing their rights, the pensioners who are suffering from the crisis, the unemployed in europe who have reached 10%, the poor whom you have forgotten - we are celebrating the year of the fight against poverty - historic steps may be taken, but they will be historic steps backwards.
madam president, i am afraid i am going to be tiresome, but with all due respect to you, i would like to return to the proposal i made yesterday for a new economic development initiative, the european mega-projects, separate from the large transeuropean networks, separate from the public transport projects. can you think of issuing eurobonds to cover only large european projects? we are confident that the global market will respond very well to this initiative. it is a development issue and i would ask you to consider it. i told you yesterday and you reacted negatively. but i think a second thought on the subject would be constructive.
madam president, the dilemma still remains. while europe needs strong governments to move forward, economic globalization needs weak governments to pass. the 2020 strategy for jobs and growth is certainly a tool for investing in education, knowledge, excellence and at the same time fighting poverty and social inclusion. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. instead of being prevented, crises are treated afterwards, often with little success. the g20 is also important if the union is to come up with concrete positions for long-term fiscal surveillance both within and outside the european union. economic governance is a political issue and therefore requires sustained efforts over a long period of time by many responsible parties, even if the results are meagre. the question is: are the european institutions prepared to pursue a long-term policy, abandoning the logic of immediate action and tomorrow and looking at the long term? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. respect for the language of each people is a proof of respect for human rights and of the proper functioning of a democratic state. the european parliament voted today to approve new legislation guaranteeing every eu citizen access to interpretation and translation services in the event of criminal prosecution in another member state. it also provides, inter alia, that this right is to be granted at all stages of criminal proceedings, that translation of all essential documents should be in writing at all times and that suspects or accused persons should be given the opportunity to lodge a complaint. only in this way will they be free from disadvantage and only in this way will the right to a fair trial guaranteed in article 47 of the charter of fundamental rights of the eu and article 6 of the echr be fully realised.
in writing. i voted against the report because, apart from the obvious issue of the employment rights of selfemployed drivers, there are two other important areas which need to be given special attention. firstly, the whole process of consultation and decision-making between the rapporteur and the council has been carried out without the approval of the competent committee of parliament, introducing unacceptable practices which degrade and invalidate the role of the european parliament. the second, and more important, issue in my view is that of road safety. in our country, deaths and serious injuries from road traffic collisions are reaching tragically high numbers. it is the responsibility of the members of the european parliament to do everything we can to reverse this situation. in this case, by our vote, we must ensure that we do not allow tired truck drivers to drive on our roads, legally and uncontrollably, with certain disastrous consequences and costs in terms of human losses, as the european parliament has done in the past.
in writing. the proposal on food labelling is not about consumer protection as the eu claims. it defines conditions of competition imposed by monopoly firms to the detriment of consumers, workers and farmers. the consumer's right to know what he is eating is not satisfied by the labelling of products and, much more, his right to a healthy, safe and quality diet is not guaranteed. the consumer is not necessarily aware of the constantly evolving technological and scientific applications, nor does he understand the corresponding markings, the properties of the foodstuffs and the units of measurement of the different sizes. the transfer of state responsibility, national legislation and its enforcement mechanisms, which must ensure that food in circulation is safe and healthy, cannot be individualised and transferred to the individual consumer who must decide whether the food product is good or bad for his health, whether it is nutritionally beneficial or not. the repeated food scandals caused by the unhealthiness of multinational food production, processing and distribution companies are not due to faulty labelling but to capitalist production itself, which is governed exclusively by the law of profit. the modern need for a healthy diet can only be met by changing the production relations and the purpose of food production.
in writing. the health risks (obesity, diabetes, cardiovascular diseases and certain cancers) posed by the circulation of uncontrolled products, lack of information, misinformation and misleading are high. yet, the food industry spends about 10 billion dollars a year trying to influence children's eating behavior. the modern consumer's insecurity about the quality of food must be stopped. the amendments proposed by the left euro group were intended to help consumers to know what they are eating so that they can make the right choices. it is also the responsibility of the european parliament, as a co-legislator, to adopt legislation which does not mislead the consumer and does not endanger his health. i voted against the report because the amendments which were voted for have unfortunately shown that the interplay of interests is stronger than consumer safety, and the food industry, one of the biggest investors in advertising, has gained control by interfering with both production and consumption.
in writing. i voted against the joint resolution on economic governance because it is in the direction of further tightening the treaties and discipline in the unacceptable and failed stability pact. in the name of budgetary discipline and competitiveness, it is pushing, with the cooperation of the imf, for the implementation, in almost all of europe, of harsh austerity programmes that are taking income and rights away from workers and condemning the economies of its member countries to recession. the resolution does not address the structural and institutional problems of emu and does not provide for community solidarity mechanisms. it serves the sovereignty of the financial system, it does not deal with speculative games by driving the eu economies into heavy speculative borrowing. finally, it takes the european union further away from the objective of economic and social convergence and cohesion.
in writing. the joint motion for a resolution on the eu strategy the 2020 strategy is intended to replace the admittedly unsuccessful lisbon strategy. employment rates in europe average 69% for people aged 20-64 and are still significantly lower than in other parts of the world. young people have been hit hard by the crisis with unemployment rates exceeding 21%. the ageing of the population is accelerating. investment in the innovation market is lagging significantly behind. the new strategy is designed to reverse these trends in a particularly difficult economic environment. the report's distinguishing feature is its insistence on the importance of research and innovation as a vehicle for economic restructuring and development of national economies. the ep calls on the commission to increase its budget for this sector even further and it is important for greece to stress this point. low productivity is directly linked to a lack of new and innovative ideas. the new strategy is a first-class opportunity for our country to use community resources to produce new, innovative ideas that will make a positive contribution to boosting competitiveness and encouraging new job creation.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the israeli military operation against the humanitarian convoy and the blockade of gaza.
mr president, the communist party of greece condemns with horror and indignation the cold-blooded murderous attack by the israeli army against the convoy of solidarity with the inhabitants of the gaza strip, which has left dozens dead and wounded and has shocked people all over the world. the new atrocity of the israeli state is a link in the long chain of israeli crimes against the palestinian people, which has reached the dimensions of genocide. the provocative military action of the israeli state is consistently supported and rewarded by the united states of america, nato and the european union as well as the other imperialist organizations. the european union and the governments of its member states have a grave responsibility not only for tolerating israeli aggression, not only for upgrading their relations with israel, for signing the establishment of a single sky with the israeli government and military cooperation agreements, but also for organizing large-scale joint military exercises, fuelling israel's criminal aggression against the palestinian people and the peoples of the wider region. the committee of inquiry into the bloody attack by the israeli army on the aid convoy to the residents of gaza, which was set up "in its own measures" by the israeli government, provocatively declared that "its aim is to preserve the freedom of action of the israeli soldiers and to prove the defensive character of their actions". the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the european union's calls for the creation of a so-called independent committee of inquiry are therefore a mockery and a hypocrisy. the palestinian people do not need committees of inquiry to cover up israeli crimes against the palestinians. the anti-imperialist struggle of the peoples must now be intensified, and a single, independent palestinian state must be established within the 1967 borders, with east jerusalem as its capital.
mr. president, i would like to express my deepest regret for the deaths of our convoy members. i would also like to ask you, mrs ashton, not to be distracted by this accident, but to take an objective view of things. i'm sorry, but in the middle east we have to be very cautious about the pure motives of activists. many times we've seen the pursuit of creating witnesses rather than activist action. i am also personally surprised that there is a very well-organized turkish activist organization. with all due respect to turkish ngos, i don't think turkey is known for freedom of activism, for freedom of action for those who want to be activists. i would like to ask you, mrs ashton, to set up a committee to investigate the activities and history of the ihh, so that we can have an objective view of the situation.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, first of all what is very clear to me in listening to this debate is the significance of our call for a credible inquiry. honourable members have different pieces of information, perhaps take different views, but what i am very clear about is that a situation arose which left nine people dead and families and friends who are grieving. whatever the circumstances, it is enormously important that we have an inquiry in which we can believe and we look forward to seeing where the proposals now take us. the second thing that i am very clear about is that honourable members want to make sure that we are in contact with all our different key partners in deciding what we do next. i can confirm that i am touch with turkey and have been from the first day. i am talking to israel – i spoke to the foreign minister again yesterday; to the palestinian authority – i spoke to president abbas today; to egypt – i have already been in touch with them, and their foreign minister will come to brussels to see me on friday. over the weekend i discussed this and other issues with secretary of state clinton and of course with the quartet envoy tony blair, whom i have been in touch with every few hours, as he has been travelling to and from israel three times in the last week, sending messages via him. we discussed this of course at our summit with russia, as i indicated earlier, and we discussed this with all 27 member states in a long session at the foreign affairs council on monday. so we are all engaged in this dialogue which is incredibly important in terms of how we move forward. the third point i wanted to make is the importance of the politics of all of this and recognising what i was trying to say earlier about the ambitions that we have. i want to see a secure israel living in peace. i have called, on every occasion, for the release of corporal shalit. like honourable members, i met his father here in strasbourg not long ago. but i am also very clear, having visited gaza, as honourable members have done too, that the future security of the region depends in part on the ability of the people of gaza to live an ordinary life; to have that miracle of being able to put down roots and live and support themselves economically and educationally and to have the capacity to work and travel as ordinary people do. eighty per cent of people in gaza rely on food which is provided by the international community; most of that through the european union. a large number of children are not in school, a large number of people are not in work. when i was there i visited and talked with members of civil society, businesses and human rights’ organisations, who spent time with me discussing what their needs should be. i am absolutely certain that the security of the region, of israel, depends on what can now be done to move forward. so i have focused my work, as i hope honourable members would agree i should, on what we can actually do. i can talk, but what can we actually do? we have worked very carefully and closely, through the quartet and directly, to try and support the changing of the list from the 112 goods being allowed in, as i think it was yesterday, to a list simply of those prohibited goods which need to be stopped in order to make sure that israel is secure. i hope we will see progress on that, possibly even today. it would be enormously significant of itself when one considers the enormous amount of goods which are simply not let in: flour is let in but not pasta; sweets are not let in, chocolate is not allowed in; fruit but not dried fruit. we can make a significant difference to the everyday life of people by changing that list. we are looking too at the different crossings, and honourable members will, like me, have studied the maps in recent times. how do we make sure that we are able to do this? yes, we have had a mission to support the crossing at rafah, which was for people only. this has not been operational but we have kept people on the ground. i have been talking with those in charge of that mission. if you look at kerem shalom or karni, there are perhaps opportunities there too to be able to open the crossings. again, those of you who have studied them will know that karni is easiest for goods but kerem shalom is probably the one most likely to be opened first. in other words, we are trying to make sure that we put on the table and that we work to provide serious opportunities for the european union: making sure that the crossings do start to open, keeping security for israel, providing goods and enabling people to live their ordinary lives. the final thing that i wanted to say is that all of this is against a backdrop of supporting the proximity talks which are being led by senator mitchell. in all my discussions i have been encouraging those who are engaged with them to move forward with the proximity talks to real talks this year, in order to try and resolve the issues. honourable members know very well the specifics and the detail of what needs to be addressed but, from my visits not only to israel and palestine but within the region, i genuinely feel it is incredibly important to move ahead now, while the world’s attention is on the situation, to try and ease the problems in gaza. i believe this will contribute to what every member of this house wants, which is a long-term sustainable peace that will allow ordinary people to get on with the lives that they value, to bring up their children and to have the benefits of the kind of lives that we take for granted.
i have received seven motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 17 june 2010.
mr president, the railways are a typical example of the selling off of the public wealth of the people and its transfer to the hands of the monopolies. the delay in the implementation of railway privatisation and the completion of the first phase of liberalisation in most countries of the european union is the result of popular workers' struggles and sharp inter-imperialist confrontations over which of the monopolies will get the biggest share of rail transport. the developments in rail transport in the united kingdom, france, germany, greece and other member states of the european union confirm our estimates. the greek railways are cutting their lines in the name of the restructuring and in the framework of the commitments arising from the memorandum of the pasok government with the european union, the european central bank, the international monetary fund, depriving residents of the right to move and transport goods in many areas of greece, undermining the country's development potential. the over-indebtedness of the osce was caused by the anti-people policy of the european union and the governments of pasok and new democracy, the degeneration of the public character of the railway and its transformation into a haven for private contractor interests, a golden sector for increasing the profits of the monopoly business groups that plundered the osce. today the pasok government is preparing to sell off the osce's shares, to give up its land in triasios and other infrastructure in the ports of eleusis, piraeus and thessaloniki and to subsidize the companies for the barren railway lines by implementing the european union's privatization policy, the commitments it has made under the memorandum. big business sees the crisis as a new opportunity to secure and increase its profits from the intensification of the exploitation of workers and natural resources and the selling off of popular public property. the sell-off of the hellenic railways organization includes a barrage of state subsidies to large business groups, an increase in accidents, mass layoffs and sweeping changes in workers' employment, insurance and pension rights. the transport sector, the whole of infrastructure, and other strategic sectors of the economy must be the property of the people and operate for the benefit of the working class and the popular strata.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the commission on the ban on commercial whaling.
acting president of the council. - madam president, i take this opportunity to say that the presidency of the european union supports the working procedure of the international whaling commission and, on behalf of the member states, is working on the mandate adopted in march 2009, which, among other highlights, supports the continuation of the moratorium on commercial whaling, the suppression/elimination of scientific whaling outside the iwc regulation, the creation of whale sanctuaries and the continuation of very strict rules to allow aboriginal subsistence hunting. i would also like to point out that the presidency approves and supports the process of updating and improving the iwc which is being discussed at the 62nd iwc meeting in agadir, with the aim of achieving a more operational and functional iwc. the presidency is therefore working, both in brussels and in agadir, to coordinate the european union's position so that the current mandate can be completed, to clarify and concretise this protection policy line with which many of you also agree.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank all the members of parliament for their remarks. i would like to thank you because i have understood that all the remarks agree we have to keep the moratorium on commercial whaling, and we will do that. we also have to try to put all whaling operations under iwc control. i would like here to underline that the iwc is a useful instrument for achieving our objectives at global level, and we should not abandon it. the commission is working on the iwc chair’s compromise. i have to say here that we have already received a lot of concerns. some of them are mentioned here. i am referring to the concerns about the future trade in whale products, the scientific basis of the proposed catch quotas, the financial implications, high catch quotas, the future of scientific whaling and a lot of other concerns. at the same time we have to try to achieve a common eu position and, as you have already mentioned, the member states do not all have the same position on this issue. we are going on with the assessment and we are trying to reach a compromise, but i can tell you that we will not accept a compromise unless this paves the way for a truly effective regulatory framework for the conservation and management of whales. we will not accept a compromise that cannot secure this option. we cannot accept a framework that would not guarantee a significant improvement of the status of whales in the long term. as regards our option and our negotiation effort during the iwc meeting next week, it will be very good, and very important, to have an eu common option. i have reluctantly to remind you what happened with the cites conference about bluefin tuna: there was an eu common position and two member states voted against it. we are going to take measures to provide for this situation, but here the situation is different. we have not reached a common position yet and we have to respect the decision of the council. i could not be more sincere about this, i am completely open. mr potočnik and dg environment are still working. they are trying to do their best for the whales and for the future of whales, respecting the council conclusions, and also trying to form a united eu approach. i would also like to inform you that we have some problems about taking these decisions because the council’s legal service argues that we have to take this decision unanimously. the commission does not agree, but this is still in progress. this is what i can offer you. i am being completely open about this; this is the whole information. we have to discuss more and we are doing our best. mr potočnik and the whole commission are doing our best to save the future of the whale.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the report by mr guido milana, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on a new impetus to the strategy for the sustainable development of european aquaculture (com (2009) 0162).
acting president of the council. - madam president, the spanish presidency would like to thank the european parliament for the report drawn up with a view to giving a new impetus to european aquaculture, given the need to respond in a timely manner to the challenges and needs it faces in an increasingly globalised market. and in this connection i would like to point out that the council of fisheries ministers of the european union in april last year already highlighted a number of difficulties, but also opportunities, which are now being highlighted again in this report by the european parliament in many cases. the presidency shares the objectives set out by the european parliament, namely to create a specific community framework for the aquaculture sector to enable it to achieve structured development, based on sustainability and respect for the environment, the need to have a higher economic value of production and to provide additional guarantees for consumers. the need to simplify administrative burdens, the promotion of research and, above all, the importance of a communication strategy to improve the public image of european aquaculture and its products are other aspects that must be addressed at community level without delay. and all this must be done within a framework of regulatory simplification and full integration into the future common fisheries policy. the report presented by the european parliament today is also a call to attention to both the commission and the member states, with the aim of achieving a coherent framework and concrete proposals to enable the problems raised by this sector to be tackled successfully without delay. i am therefore pleased that the european parliament is also echoing the main points reflected in the council conclusions, particularly as regards the simplification and improvement of the legislative and administrative framework, support for research, access to the sites and compliance with the rules for imported products, and i therefore, as the spanish presidency, share the view of the european parliament that the commission should be asked to submit a proposal consolidating the most relevant rules for the aquaculture sector.
member of the commission. − madam president, i am very pleased to have the opportunity today to listen to members’ views on our communication on a new strategy for the sustainable development of european aquaculture. i very much welcome the report prepared by mr milana and congratulate him for the way in which he has brought together all opinions. i would like to comment briefly on some aspects of this report. first, i appreciate your support for a greater focus on our aquaculture sector. eu aquaculture is at the forefront of sustainable development. our industry already benefits from the recognition of its assets, its high quality and its environmental sustainability. in close association with stakeholders, the commission will pursue its efforts to support research and ecological developments. second, eu aquaculture complements our capture sector and is an integral part of the common fisheries policy, but aquaculture activities depend upon a range of eu policies in areas such as environmental protection, animal health and welfare, consumer protection, trade and research. mr milana’s report proposes to include, within a single regulation, all measures which govern the aquaculture sector. so i would like to inform you that i am willing to consider this for measures which fall under my responsibility. for example, promoting species diversity or helping aquaculture enterprises in the framework of the fisheries structural fund. it must be clear, however, that this regulation cannot cover measures which relate to sanitary issues or trade issues or aquaculture products in general. what we should do is to give aquaculture a clearer focus in the context of the ongoing reform of the cfp. however, on governance and better legislation we must recognise that a number of measures to address the aquaculture challenges largely depend on decisions taken by national and local authorities. i fully share your call for streamlining administrative procedures, notably on licensing and for developing special planning. i also fully support setting up national or regional aquaculture programmes to allow eu aquaculture to realise its full potential. i would like also to address some more specific issues which are also raised in mr milana’s report. the commission will continue to ensure environmental protection in its policies and actions. staying with this issue, we all share the view that the responsible production of fish feed is a prerequisite to sustainable aquaculture. this brings me to fish welfare considerations. the commission is promoting a species dependent approach when evaluating fish welfare in aquaculture. however, i would like to underline that putting into place too detailed rules for the farming, transportation, killing of different species will add much to the legislative and administration burden applicable to eu operators. we need to help the sector organise itself more efficiently and in particular strengthen its producer organisations to better link production forecasts to market needs and ensure higher value for their products through marketing and labelling. similarly, we will have to define which priorities should enjoy specific eu financial support. no decision has been taken so far but my preference would clearly be for a financial instrument in support of the reformed cfp, in which aquaculture would be given a specific place. mr milana, your report contributes relevant and interesting ideas to these considerations. we will continue to involve stakeholders in the development of cfp reform.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate and thank mr milana for his excellent cooperation and for the comprehensive text of proposals he has presented, taking into account the different views and perceptions on the subject. the new increased powers of the european parliament, as they result from the implementation of the treaty of lisbon, also bring with them great obligations and responsibilities. it is particularly important that we are discussing today a sector such as aquaculture. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it should be noted that the sector has stagnated in recent years and that european fishery products are not meeting the dietary preferences of european citizens. sustainable aquaculture with respect to the environment and coastal tourism activities can meet much of the demand with huge economic, environmental and social benefits. let us not forget that two thirds of the aquaculture products consumed at european level come from third countries with fish of questionable quality, often produced without respect for the environmental obligations or the welfare and health rules deriving from european legislation. it is clear that european aquaculture producers, who have to comply with a multitude of labour, environmental and commercial legislation, are subject to unfair competition. the report calls on the european commission to propose a single regulation for the uniform management of the sector, as experts say the appropriate regulatory framework for the most modern aquaculture technologies can be developed and applied much more easily than for commercial fisheries. fishermen can do very little with fish and therefore focus on upgrading their tools and methods, whereas aquaculture can upgrade both the organisms they farm and the farming methods. with a production of 1.3 million tonnes in 2007, worth €3 billion, and creating some 65,000 jobs, the aquaculture sector is of paramount importance for the european union's competitiveness and growth. we now have the opportunity to re-establish it as a model of sustainable economic and social development for europe. that will be difficult, but we must try.
the next item is voting. (for the results and other information on the vote, see minutes)
mr tannock, let me just point out that what you have just said was more appropriately slated for the explanation of votes section of the sitting, but thank you.
i wished everybody a happy weekend because this is my last chance to do so. i did not mean to imply that there was no work to be done – even over the weekend, i should add.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the application of the provisions of the schengen acquis relating to the schengen information system (sis) in bulgaria and romania, in order to support (a) the request of bulgaria and romania to participate in enhanced schengen cooperation, provided, of course, that all the conditions laid down by the schengen acquis are fulfilled and their evaluation is successfully completed, (b) the establishment of a simple, effective and transparent evaluation mechanism that will frame the existing schengen evaluation and allow schengen to remain a free-flowing area, and (c) the substantial involvement of parliament in the setting up of the new evaluation system.
in writing. we are voting against the resolution on football managers, as the job of a manager is an integral part of the commercialisation of football. it is a single exploitation circuit involving football joint-stock companies, multinationals, management companies, the sports press and sports betting. in this trade fair, we can't see the work of managers in isolation. the exploitation of the land is not only profitable for the managers but also for the ppas and their sponsors. it's a pure trade of athletes who are sold and promoted when they're young, but when they get older, get injured or don't accept their terms, they're thrown out. as far as the trafficking and laundering of black money is concerned, it is world-renowned and we did not expect the study on managers. we should also be aware that many of the management companies that work with the pae own their own players, a phenomenon that we see more in african and latin american countries where there is a regular slave market. our position on this matter is clear. we are against any business activity in the field of sport and football, because it is what drives football to all these consequences.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on football managers in sport. the european parliament's initiative aims to be the first step in the effort to create a credible, possibly pan-european, framework to tackle the phenomena of links between sports managers' activities and organised crime. it is noted that managers play a central role in the financial flows in sport, which are often not transparent. i voted against amendments nos 1 and 3 because they propose to remove critical points from the report, depriving it of important elements of dynamism and determination needed to deal with this particular issue.
in writing. in 2006, the eu introduced the world's first multilateral export control agreement to prevent international trade in instruments of torture and has made an explicit commitment to a total ban on them as part of its human rights policy. despite community funding of programmes (of around €12 million per year) to ban such equipment, there are still legal loopholes in regulation 1236/2005 today that allow companies to continue to illegally trade in torture equipment. i voted against this report which calls for more decisive action, calls for an annual report to be drawn up by the member states on this subject and stresses the need to initiate immediately amendments to the list of products subject to a ban on marketing and to export controls respectively.
mr. chairman of the board, it is our honor and pleasure to see you. i'd like to say that your sober approach to matters during this period has been invaluable. mr president, at the last council germany accepted that the union needs some form of economic governance. but it refused to accept france's reasonable suggestion that this governance should be exercised at the level of the 16 eurozone members, at least for the time being. · this is the way forward for the formation of economic governance for the 27. and i ask you: what kind of common economic policy can 27 countries pursue with 18 different currencies, different taxation, different borrowing rates, etc.? i am afraid we are heading back to the problematic structure of the eurozone.
mr president, during the euro years the economies of the south and the north diverged rather than converged. the main reason is that they were very differently structured. the south relied on services, agriculture, tourism; the north in heavy industry, in exports. the south, therefore, had to radically change its economic structures within a very few years. · instead, it grew through consumption, through cheap loans made possible by the euro, through over-indebtedness, while the industrial countries grew because they could now export cheaper and more easily. so here is why and where economic governance was needed. the lack of it has increased both the development advantages of some member states and the development disadvantages of others. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment. and yet right now comparatively wealthy germany is embarking on a program of severe austerity both by curbing its domestic consumption and by making itself primarily more attractive in the financial markets to its partners. such measures do not constitute a common european economic policy. they potentially turn member states into fierce competitors for limited funds instead of solidary partners and put them on the same cuts cushion, thus aggravating the strengths of some and the weaknesses of others and putting some member states on a very negative starting point for achieving the supposedly common 2020 targets.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. i think that buses and coaches should also be included in the regulation, and that special measures should be taken on the subject of compensation, so that they are rationalised in relation to both the undertakings and the survival of the undertakings which carry out the transport. but i would like to put more emphasis on passenger rights and ask the european parliament to launch a campaign to inform the public about their rights in all transport modes. as my country, greece, has been in the spotlight of the press over certain incidents involving ports and transport strikes, i take this opportunity to say that everything has been restored and i would ask everyone to know that greece is accessible to all concerned.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of transport services, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. it is a real challenge for european transport policy and the previous colleagues rightly spoke of a new era in transport. the widest possible application of intelligent transport systems will contribute, firstly, to more efficient, more stable and safer transport and, secondly, to the objective of cleaner and more environmentally friendly transport. i therefore believe that the adoption of the framework directive on intelligent transport systems will be a very positive development for all european citizens, because the voluntary approach has so far not worked satisfactorily. we need, and we all agree on this, a minimum level of standardisation if we are to see these systems being used in our travel and transport in the short term. i believe, as does the rapporteur, mrs jensen, whom i congratulate, that we should go ahead and give our consent tomorrow, in order to confirm that a long and difficult negotiation, which lasted until a short while ago, has taken place and that we must now move forward. the last thing we need is a new but unnecessary delay to the whole process. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur again.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, this report further supports and promotes the european union's transport policy, which has one single objective: to increase competitiveness, that is to say, to safeguard and maximise the profitability of the business monopolies operating in the land, air and sea transport sector, and to contribute to the overall strategic planning of the european union's capital to increase its profits. climate change is being used by capital to find a lucrative outlet in new fields of action. the only beneficiaries of this development will be the corporate giants, while workers will see unemployment skyrocket, their labour and wage rights further eroded, and transportation costs higher. the developments in the member states of the european union fully confirm these assessments: the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the new rules on the internal market, which will be submitted to the council in the near future. the liberalization of transport, of goods, of passengers and of all modes of transport has had a disastrous effect on workers. increased accidents, painful public health effects, a multi-billion-euro subsidy wall for monopoly business groups. the abolition of cabotage in inland waterway transport by regulation 3577 of 1992 has painful consequences for shipbuilders and workers, the inhabitants of the islands. the shipping monopolies operating in the coastal passenger and vehicle shipping, tourist shipping and in general in all categories of regular shipping - and we would like to stress this in particular - choose flags of opportunity of member states of the european union and third countries for the registration of their ships, because this ensures them cheaper labour and increased profits. at the same time, shipbuilders are building their ships in asian shipyards. the exploitation of workers is intensified to the extreme, their wage and social rights are eroded. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this is the way to choose cheaper labour without structured labour rights. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the workers' movement, the people's movement, is resisting the profoundly anti-people policy of the european union with its struggles. it calls for the creation of a single public transport operator based on the satisfaction of social and popular needs.
in writing. the drafting of the next white paper on transport is a key milestone, offering us the opportunity to rethink the guidelines of transport policy and hence the 'hard infrastructure' of the eu's common market. the grosch report, in its present form, is already a comprehensive look at the future of transport. the commission's proposal for a directive on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to the transport of dangerous goods by road is a good example of the need to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are applied in all member states. i therefore believe that it is particularly important to give a new impetus to road safety - let us not forget that 70% of transport in the eu is carried out by road - and i also believe that the proposal to establish a european road transport agency is an essential measure in this direction. we need new tools to promote the adoption of new technologies, the dissemination of best practice and research tools in road transport.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, firstly i would like to thank mr iturgaiz for his excellent report and for the very important work that has obviously gone into preparing it. i must say that, in the quality of his report, he went even further than his predecessor on this file, ms mcguinness, who also succeeded in producing a very important and very informative report. after studying this report, the commission found many very important details and many suggestions concerning our better work and cooperation in the future. it is very clear that we have to recognise the growing importance of petitions. we can see that the number and range of issues covered by petitions are really increasing. i would also like to use this opportunity to pay tribute to the new chair of the committee on petitions, ms mazzoni, because she has managed in a very short time to bring new energy and impetus into the work of the committee and into the handling of the commission, and is establishing very collaborative good cooperation with other committees in parliament and with the commission as well. i would like to continue by reiterating that the commission is, of course, very ready to cooperate with the committee on petitions in all aspects relating to petitions. we are ready to provide expert help and to offer what is very important – the background study of the issues and a good exchange of information on the most pertinent issues. because of the time limitation, allow me to focus only on three points that, from the commission’s point of view, are very interesting and very important. we consider the most important point to be the recognition by the rapporteur of the very important part in this whole cooperation played by cooperation with the national authorities and the national parliaments. i listened very carefully just now to his ideas on establishing very close collaboration with the petition committees in the member states. it is very often true that, where european legislation is concerned, the national authorities are responsible for enforcing it. secondly, i understand your call for more readability and more user-friendliness in relation to the information spread and information communication from the commission. here we are trying to improve our work and i would underline the quality of the new europa website where we are trying to direct petitioners to the relevant information. my third point is that i am very pleased that last week we managed to conclude the framework agreement between the european parliament and the commission on the particular issue that was raised in the report, namely the information on stakeholders’ current powers as regards infringement. i am very glad that we have found a solution for that. i know that my time is up so i will finish here. i am looking forward to our debate. thank you very much for an excellent report.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr president, commissioner, i too would like to express my thanks as vice-president of the committee on petitions to mr iturgaiz for his very important report, particularly because it highlights, using statistical data, the crucial role of the committee on petitions in bringing european citizens into contact with the european parliament and, alongside the institution of the european ombudsman, in building their confidence in the european union and its representatives. in this respect, the commission has an obligation, and i am glad that mr šefčovič has already stated this (in advance!), to work with the members of the committee on petitions to reduce red tape and to make the commission more effective in responding to requests that facilitate the work of the committee on petitions, to keep it officially and regularly informed of the progress of infringement procedures and to set up a new web portal that will inform citizens about the various complaint mechanisms available to them at european union and national level. i hope that the commission will give due consideration to mr iturgaiz's report and make use of its conclusions in order to seek to build european identity and cohesion.
the next item is the one-minute speeches on important political issues (rule 150).
the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome. the european union is a major player in the world economy, and it is a major player in the world economy, and it is a major player in the world economy. on 30 june turkey took a new provocative action in the north aegean sea area, within the greek shelf. the turkish hydrographic and oceanographic vessel chesme was sailing 13 miles north of the island of samothrace and 10 miles off the coast of thrace, without the greek side being informed of its course and activities. the improvement of bilateral relations is in the interest of both greece and turkey. the turkish leadership has recently spoken of a new climate in greek-turkish relations. but turkey's systematic violations of greece's territorial waters and airspace raise unanswered questions about the sincerity of its intentions. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union's institutions and bodies are able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the rights of the citizens of the union are respected.
mr president, according to eurostat, unemployment is skyrocketing in all the countries of the european union where harsh anti-people measures are being taken. in total, the number of unemployed in the member states of the european union reached 23 113 000, 1 801 000 more than in may 2009. in greece it has soared to 10.2%, but in reality it is over 15%, it is crushing 23% of young men and over 27% of young women. the pasok government is shaking up the memorandum it signed with the european union and the international monetary fund, with the support of the other parties in the capitalist and euro-movement parties, and is promoting the abolition of social security in the public and private sectors, the abolition of collective labour agreements, raising the limits of collective redundancies, drastically cutting redundancy payments and wages for newly-entering young people by 20%, expanding child labour by immersing schooling, and generally ending the total exploitation of young people. this barbaric capitalist policy is the policy of the european union and of the bourgeois governments in its member states. the anti-people policy is accompanied by the slander and criminalization of the struggles of the working class movement in our country with one and only goal: to burden the working people with the burden of the capitalist crisis in order to secure the profits of the monopoly business groups. it is imperative for the working people to unite and intensify their struggle to overthrow the anti-people policy, to meet their contemporary needs.
mr president, at a time when all the governments of the european union are following in the footsteps of the recent anti-worker measures in greece, the anti-democratic anti-communist measures and provocations of the states and institutions of the european union are escalating. i want to denounce in particular the criminalization of communist symbols in poland, the criminalization of historical truth in hungary, which tarnishes the anti-fascist victory of the peoples. i would also like to denounce the ban on communist symbols by the moldovan government, which is supported by the european union, and similar measures in russia. i would like to take this opportunity to denounce once again the attempt to slander the sacrifice of millions of communists and antifascists by equating communism with fascism, as you well know. the threats of unconstitutionality of strikes and popular struggles cannot stop the social development, the workers' struggle to overthrow the barbaric anti-people measures. the huge smear campaign against socialism is designed to convince people that there is no alternative. we are optimistic. we can see for sure that the workers are fighting. we know that this fight is the only realistic alternative to the crisis they are experiencing.
mr president, the book by turkish foreign minister ahmet davutoglu entitled 'strategic abyss' has recently been published in greek. in this book, the coherent geopolitical doctrine of turkey as a regional regional superpower with an area of interest from the adriatic to china and with a particular emphasis on cyprus, the balkans and the aegean is presented. on page 274 of this book, a special chapter is devoted to cyprus, highlighting its geostrategic importance, regardless of the human element of the inhabitants, their nationality or religion. the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the situation in the greek islands. the european union is also very much aware of the fact that the turkish cypriot community is a very important part of the turkish economy, and that the turkish cypriot community is a very important part of the turkish economy. the tendency to recover former ottoman territories, which is mentioned in this book, suggests violence. there is no violence in the european union. a message must be given to turkey.
mr president, last week the turkish research vessel chesme carried out, without any prior notice and without the approval of greece, underwater research in an area which legally and geophysically belongs beyond any doubt to greece. this provoked a strong diplomatic reaction from athens. the main reason for this behaviour, which creates problems in good neighbourly relations with a member state, is the fact that turkey has not signed and ratified the convention on the international law of the sea. i remind you of a very important fact: the international convention on the law of the sea is an international agreement of mixed character, signed by the european union, all member states, and all candidate member states except turkey. it is therefore an integral part of the community acquis. the eu has a long history of supporting the un convention on the law of the sea, which is the basis for the un convention on the law of the sea. it is a very serious condition. the failure of turkey to comply with it will have negative consequences for the subsequent stages of the accession negotiations and for specific chapters such as the fisheries and energy chapters, and parliament must therefore encourage turkey to sign and ratify this agreement.
it's getting past that point.
the next item is the report by mrs turunen, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on promoting access for young people to the labour market and strengthening the regime for traineeships, apprenticeships and apprenticeships (2009/2221 (ini)) (a7-0197/2010)
the european parliament, mr president, with this own-initiative report, which has been very well done by mrs turunen, and i congratulate her on it, is asking the council and the commission to come up with a better employment strategy. and that for one very simple reason: the young need europe, but europe needs the young. this relationship is two-way, but it is very important and it has to work for a very simple reason: if this relationship does not work, both sides will be poorer. and young people have their whole lives ahead of them to have second and third chances. but europe is old enough to have a chance in these difficult times of economic crisis.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, let me start by thanking your rapporteur, ms turunen, for her report, which is very timely. as was highlighted by several speakers, it is very clear that the young generation has been particularly badly affected by the economic crisis and the unemployment rate for young people is clearly unacceptable. we cannot waste the talent of our young people, where every fifth young european is without a job or without appropriate prospects. the commission therefore is particularly pleased, as am i personally, by the very good title of this report, because it is very clear that we need better-quality jobs for young people and that they need to get appropriate work experience. where and how better to get work experience than through high-quality apprenticeships or internships? i therefore fully agree that these forms of training at the workplace should be used properly and should not replace regular jobs, as was highlighted by several speakers. full appreciation of the negative impact of economic crisis on the young generation was fully reflected in the commission’s proposal for eu 2020 strategy. it is not a coincidence or an accident that two of the key targets for the europe 2020 strategy are dealing with young people, and dealing with the importance of better education, ensuring that a higher proportion of the young generation have a university diploma and reducing the proportion of young pupils who are not able to complete primary or secondary education. the commission will therefore come with a concrete proposal in order to assist member states in reaching these targets. we will present our flagship initiative on ‘youth on the move’ in september and we will put the emphasis on the development of fully integrated policies, bringing together education, training and employment. the objective will be to establish a framework at eu level for promoting youth employment, including through policies to ensure that young people are equipped with the skills and competences they need and that are required by the labour market by means of specific actions to help young people get a first job and to ensure that they move upwards once in the labour market. we will present measures on how to support young entrepreneurs and increase the self-employment of young people, and we would suggest targeted actions for young people with no or low qualification to help them to move into the labour market. as i said at the beginning, i agree with the speakers that we have to find concrete and positive measures to stop the waste of young talent and energy and to help young people in europe. i am sure that, with the support of the european parliament, we will find an appropriate recipe to overcome this very serious crisis.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 6 july, at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the report by mrs pascale gruny, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on informal contracts, career guidance, flexibility with security and new forms of social dialogue (2009/2220 (ini)) (a7-0193/2010)
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms gruny, for her report. i think that even the timing is very fortunate because i see the great relevance of the report and the strong interrelationship between this report and the one which was discussed a moment ago. the issues the rapporteur is tackling in her report are very topical because atypical contracts, flexicurity and the importance of the social dialogue are very important for the establishment of new and good conditions on the labour market. i also welcome the report’s key messages and i am pleased to note that they are largely in line with the commission’s approach and the new europe 2020 strategy. i find it really reassuring that parliament firmly supports the fair, balanced implementation of the flexicurity principles. i also agree that there is a need to update our thinking on flexicurity in the light of the current crisis. while the common principles and the four components of flexicurity remain valid, their substance needs to be further elaborated in the light of the new circumstances resulting from the current economic crisis – including higher unemployment, budget constraints, the development of the new forms of employment, faster and more complex transitions and more diversified job-seekers’ profiles. i also believe that social dialogue on flexicurity should be strengthened at all levels – at european, national, local and, very importantly, company level. this is the precondition for a successful implementation of flexicurity. the commission will support the implementation of europe 2020, including through a series of flagship initiatives. i referred to one a moment ago but other flagship initiatives will set out an agenda for new skills and jobs, where we will analyse what kind of labour requirement there will be for the young generations in the years to come. this commission proposal, to be adopted in november, will aim to create conditions for modernising european labour markets, with a view to raising employment levels and to ensuring the sustainability of our social models. it will address many of the issues covered in ms gruny’s report, including flexicurity and social dialogue. i am therefore very grateful for parliament’s input. ms gruny, honourable members of the european parliament, i personally and the commission are very much looking forward to continuing discussion with you on these issues.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 6 july, at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the report by mr josé manuel fernandes, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the commission green paper on the management of bio-waste in the european union (2009/2153 (ini)) (a7-0203/2010)
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would like to start by thanking the rapporteur, mr fernandes, for his report on bio-waste. i would also like to thank the members of the committee for their valuable contributions on this very important subject. as you know, on 18 may, the commission adopted the communication on future steps in bio-waste management in the european union. this communication is accompanied by an annex with a detailed technical analysis of the measures that could be taken to improve the management of bio-waste in the eu as a whole and in each member state individually. while preparing this communication, our departments have been paying close attention to the debates on bio-waste held in the european parliament. i find it very encouraging that we have arrived at the same general conclusions: there is still room for improvement in bio-waste management in the eu, and this improvement can bring positive economic and environmental results. i also agree that the key to success lies in better enforcement of existing legislation, especially the landfill directive. however, as optimal bio-waste policies may differ from country to country or even between regions, further analysis on the grounds of subsidiarity is necessary. the main difference between the commission’s approach and the rapporteur’s approach revolves around the issue of a possible bio-waste directive. the commission takes the view that a self-standing directive would bring limited added value. it is possible to improve the bio-waste management based on existing and already envisaged legislation. therefore the commission plans to initiate a number of actions aimed at improving bio-waste management, including: setting criteria for the production of high-quality compost using the ‘end of waste’ procedure envisaged in the waste framework directive; analysing the viability of setting minimum standards for the use of bio-waste in agriculture within the revision of the sewage sludge directive; and analysing the possibility of introducing targets for separate collection or recycling of bio-waste within the review of the recycling targets of the waste framework directive by 2014 at the latest. i believe that we can meet the essence of the parliamentary request through the package of measures proposed by the commission and i am therefore grateful for your readiness to further cooperate on this important and challenging dossier.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 6 july, at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the report by wojciech michał olejniczak, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the european union strategy for the baltic sea region and the role of macro-regions in future cohesion policy (2009/2230 (ini)) (a7-0202/2010)
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would like once again to thank the rapporteur for this very important report and to thank parliament for its commitment to the european union’s strategy for the baltic sea region. this new macro-region is testing out the new way of working. its success will very much depend on how the action plan that accompanies the commission communications will be fulfilled. it is very clear that the commitment of the states, regions and other stakeholders will be of crucial importance for the success of the baltic sea strategy. it is the first time that we have prepared an integrated strategy for a group of member states who face the same challenges and who may benefit from the same opportunities. it will be a tailor-made strategy. we are preparing the implementation process for the strategy, with new governance and a new working method with a view to turning words into actions. for the first time we are trying to come up with an overall synergy where we would like to put the financial possibilities – different instruments, programmes and regional possibilities – together in order to establish a new macroeconomic approach to the region. by addressing the environment, the economy, energy and transport, as well as safety and security issues, the strategy provides a new integrating approach and brings together the key policy areas, maximising the impact by encouraging interaction between the fields concerned. this approach has already proven to be a big success, as many projects have already been created, speeded up and co-financed by structural fund programmes only eight months into the implementation phase. the commission is very committed to keeping up the momentum we have achieved so far with this strategy. the annual stakeholders’ conference in tallinn on 14 and 15 october of this year will offer an opportunity to learn the lessons of the first months of the strategy and to make further proposals if needed. the environment is the first of four pillars of the eu strategy for the baltic sea region, and the revitalisation of the water quality of the sea itself is the keystone of the strategy. several speakers referred to transport, which is of course another important issue that has to be considered in a comprehensive way. some promising projects are already under consideration, in particular supporting 20 priority axes, which will definitely improve integration of the region. the baltic sea region is pioneering the macro-regional approach. its results will give us a feel for the added value that this new working method can bring. the commission is therefore monitoring its progress carefully and looks forward to seeing the development of the danube strategy, which is currently being prepared. as mr tabajdi said, being from slovakia, i am very glad that this project is being prepared. i am even happier that it will be under the careful eye of commissioner hahn, who comes from austria and who i am sure must have a very good understanding of the danube region. whether further macro-regions should follow depends on how these first two perform and whether other proposals are made to demonstrate a specific added value that goes beyond existing cooperation, and if they really meet the clear needs that cannot be fulfilled through other means. i am hoping for a successful outcome with regard to the further implementation and accomplishments of the baltic sea strategy, and i wish the incoming hungarian presidency every success with a view to cooperation with the commission resulting in solid proposals on the danube strategy and the danube region.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 6 july, at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
in writing. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur once again on his excellent report. the baltic strategy is ushering in a new era for the functional regions and provides the basis for tackling major challenges more effectively through integrated approaches. the coordination of actions under different policies with territorial impact can provide a guide for the future development of cohesion policy. the importance of the strategy is not limited to this, however. the most important aspect of this is that it was shaped through broad consultation of the region's stakeholders at all levels of government. the pillars, priority areas and key plans of the strategy are not imposed from above but are a natural development of projects and initiatives that have been developed for a long time in the region and respond to specific needs of citizens' daily lives. in this context, the importance of partnership between all actors in a given area is highlighted in order to ensure the best possible results from actions financed with european citizens' money. it is essentially a first test in order to be applied in future to other operational areas.
the next item is the report by mr rodios cratza tzagaropoulos, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the contribution of eu regional policy to the response to the financial and economic crisis, with particular reference to objective 2 (2009/2234 (ini)) (a7-0206/2010)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the the aim of this report, mr president, commissioner, is to highlight the importance of regional policy for the recovery of the european union today in the wake of the financial crisis and its impact on the real economy. we want to emphasize that regional policy is the main source of investment for development. the structural funds are not only instruments for combating anomalies and structural problems, but they are also instruments which must be adapted to the present circumstances and made the best use of for balanced development, for the functioning of the internal market. the report focuses in particular on objective 2 regions, which have already, since 2000, increased gdp rates and also special performances in competitiveness, innovation and research. with the 2006 reform, objective 2 regions focused on competitiveness and quality job creation. i would like to mention, in particular, that the objective 2 interventions cover 168 regions with 314 million inhabitants in 19 member states of the union, to give an idea of the scope of this initiative. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one. it is clear from the motion for a resolution that we want to support the regional dimension of the europe 2020 strategy, a priority which is not only aimed at regional and social cohesion but also at the competitiveness of the regions. the resolution calls on the european commission to be more flexible in its allocation of appropriations and decision-making in order to make better and faster use of the structural funds. we have already noted that, out of a total of 117 operational programmes of the european social fund, 13 were modified in certain member states of the european union and adapted to circumstances of budgetary difficulties and difficulties in participating in the national budget. we ask the european commission to support the efforts of the member states to make use of this flexibility. our basic proposal is to support the council's decision to increase advances to countries whose gdp has fallen by more than 10% or which have the support of the international monetary fund for their fiscal adjustment; we also ask the european commission to allow flexible solutions in respect of the n+2 and n+3 rules so that member states in budgetary difficulties do not lose european aid. we also note that the sixth cohesion report does not provide sufficient qualitative and quantitative data for objective 2 regions. we therefore ask the european commission to carry out a study which will provide us with all the information we need to be able to adapt to the present situation and to prepare the next budgetary perspectives in the light of the real circumstances and needs. another point to be noted is that in specific cases, such as the one which gave rise to the report, namely the economic crisis, it is necessary to make the n+2 rule even more flexible, taking into account the objectives of cohesion policy and the impact of cyclical economic changes on public finances and private investment. we also stress the importance of promoting the jaspers, jeremie, jessica initiatives, because there are countries such as greece (not mentioned in the report but i mention it as an example), which has signed since 2007 with the european investment bank for the development of the initiatives and only recently activated these procedures. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european regional development fund is a good one, but it is not enough to ensure that the funds are used in a way that is compatible with the objectives of the community.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her report on the role of cohesion policy in the recovery plan and beyond, and also to thank the european parliament for its interest in the monitoring of the impact of this measure on national and regional economies. cohesion policy is conceived as a policy to support the reduction in socioeconomic disparities and a real convergence by investing in measures to foster structural change. with total financial resources of eur 347 billion for the period 2007-2013, eur 228 billion of which is earmarked for lisbon-related investment, this cohesion policy provides a powerful support for both budgetary stability and public investment in the member states and the regions of the european union. while this is not an anti-cyclical economic policy, it represents a powerful and relevant lever available to the union for promoting investment in the real economy. this explains why the policy was included as a key part of the european economic recovery plan. the goal of this plan and of these european measures was to counter important negative impacts of the crisis. therefore the commission proposed a set of legislative changes and targeted recommendations. the overriding aim of this proposal was to speed up implementation of programmes and accelerate financing to beneficiaries for the programmes already approved for the period of this financial perspective. we did this through increased eu pre-financing and a series of simplification measures. the legislative changes entered into force in april 2009 and recommendations to the member states, following the commission’s communications, were adopted in december 2008. so we can say that this legislative package was adopted within five months, which is a timetable fully compatible with the urgency of the remedies needed to be taken against the crisis. i would like to underline that this success was the result of the quality of interinstitutional work and fruitful cooperation with the institutional partners – and in particular with the european parliament – because all of us wanted to respond quickly and adequately to the political and economic needs. as a whole, these measures have been characterised as a positive move that provided the necessary means for accelerating spending and easing implementation obstacles. these measures were flexible enough to allow member states to choose and implement those that are best suited to their specific national and regional environment, because we know that there is no such thing as a ‘one size fits all’ solution. recovery measures had also contributed to reviving and improving implementation mechanisms of the cohesion policy by simplifying as much as possible some provisions of the preparation and management of projects. these measures were not only designed to fight against the crisis but also to take on a permanent role in the post-crisis situation in the present programming period. last but not least, the commission will present a report on the implementation and results of the measures adopted within the framework of the recovery plan that concern cohesion policy in the european union, following the commission’s commitment to submit to the european parliament such a report during the second half of 2010.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 6 july, at 12 noon.
mr president, the way things have developed over the last six months has meant that the spanish presidency has had little time to exercise its responsibilities and perhaps we should not have been so critical. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. firstly, you have missed the great opportunity of drawing up an action programme for the rational development of the energy market in the euro-mediterranean area, which is in chaos, and we all expected the spanish presidency to put some order into this chaos. secondly, as regards the prospects for european growth, you have missed the opportunity to promote an institutional framework for lng, which is the dominant energy source in the euro-mediterranean. i would like to thank you and congratulate you on the work you have done in the council.
the next item is the report by mr alexander álvaro, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the eu/united states of america agreement on the processing and transfer of financial messaging data from the european union to the united states of america for the purposes of the terrorist financing monitoring programme (11222/2010 - c7-0158/2010 - 2010/0178 ((nle)) (a7-0224/2010)
president of the council. - president, ladies and gentlemen, this is a passionate debate. i appreciate the positions of the various groups and the various speakers, but i can only say that the debate which is being held throughout europe, in all parliaments, is a debate which concerns a balance between security, the fight against terrorism on the one hand and the protection of privacy and data protection on the other. we must maintain this balance, and this is an evolutionary process. we came up with some similarities. those agreements were rejected here and we are coming up with a new agreement which is clearly better and will continue to evolve. i am confident that with this agreement we will make a great step forward and that we will also have the eu-us framework agreement on data protection which needs to be further negotiated and which may have an impact. we shall look at the way in which supervision is organized, also under the control of the commission, so that we can carry out professional european supervision in the united states. these are all positive steps. but it is also true, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, that if we are criticizing a partnership between europe and the united states, we must take responsibility for our own system, and we have done so. a system of its own is envisaged. this will be worked on. it is easy to criticize a system with the united states. but then we must be consistent and do what we have agreed here today, namely to build our own european system. i think this is the next step, so i am confident that this approval will make a positive contribution to greater security in europe and that at the same time we will build up more of our own instruments to operate even more in a european way. i therefore hope that this agreement can now be approved by parliament.
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you for this debate. you may or may not like this agreement. all agreements that we make, whether internally between the institutions or with a third country, are the result of tough negotiations, hard efforts and compromise. compromise is the very essence of the community method. it is not always 100%, but usually it is a decent compromise and we can live with it. you may not like it, but i think it is unfair to say that this agreement is equivalent to the one you voted down in february. that is simply not true. considerable improvements have been made concerning data protection, fundamental rights and integrity. the requests will be as narrowly tailored as possible: there are several review and scrutiny mechanisms, and the idea of an eu tftp mechanism has also been mooted. it was not even on the agenda a few months ago, and this has been done thanks to you, your very constructive and responsible approach to this, and through hard negotiations. it has also been made possible thanks to the constructive, open and very determined approach by our us counterparts. they have listened, they have understood our concerns, and together we have come to an agreement that takes these into consideration but is also a tool to fight terrorism and, hopefully, save lives in the future. i am ready to discuss the further details and the development of this, the future tftp mechanism, and the implementation of the agreement. once again i should like to thank everybody involved – the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs, the council and the political groups – for this very constructive report.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 8 june at 12 noon. the next item is voting. written declarations (rule 149) in writing. instead of the "swift" swift agreement they were aiming for, the involvement of parliament forced commission and the u.s. administration to negotiate a "good" swift agreement. and that is a major victory for europe and for the future of transatlantic relations. yes, the final agreement took a little longer to reach, but it achieved a much better balance between fighting terrorism and protecting fundamental rights than was the case a few months ago. it demonstrated that parliament is a serious interlocutor that can exercise its new powers responsibly and effectively. and it brought a new and much needed spirit of openness and cooperation in the american administration's relations with the eu. this is not a perfect agreement. i would hope, for example, that the commission could devise a way to station in europol a representative of the european data protection supervisor to oversee those initial bulk data grants, just as we have succeeded in stationing an eu supervisor in treasury. but when all is said and done, i firmly believe that this much-improved agreement as opposed to the highly problematic interim agreement of last february deserves this parliament's consent.
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution in the european parliament's plenary today on the draft council decision on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and iceland and norway on the stepping up of crossborder cooperation in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime. this agreement is another initiative of the european union aimed at combating terrorism, which is added to the overall european effort in this direction. the effective fight against terrorism requires continuous initiatives of this kind.
in writing. i voted against the report on the entry of switzerland and liechtenstein into the frontex system on principle. i am opposed to the existence and the way frontex operates as a whole. it is a mechanism that focuses on hunting down people who attempt to cross eu borders without travel documents in a way that not only disrespects their basic human rights, but also forces many of them into even riskier entry attempts at the cost of many times their own lives and of course strengthening trafficking rings. this is a very expensive military mechanism, the budget of which should be used to combat poverty in the countries of origin of migrants and to provide social integration services in the eu countries. the problem of migration cannot be solved by creating a fortress europe, by repression, by treating migrants with military measures, or by the mass deportations carried out in the framework of frontex.
in writing. i voted against the report because, despite the positive points about the rights of young workers that the report had in its original form, unfortunately some very negative amendments were voted on in the committee on employment and social affairs. the rapporteur also regrets that, despite the efforts to support the labour rights of young workers and the provision of social services to them, she insists on the logic of flexicurity. we know, however, that not only can there be no "balanced" combination between flexibility and security at work for young people, but that this concept has led to the dismantling of industrial relations, the abolition of basic labour rights and works in the interests of capital rather than workers and society.
in writing. article 63 of the report recognises the importance of young people being able to be financially independent and calls on the member states to ensure that all young people are individually entitled to a decent income which ensures that they can build a financially independent life. the european-wide paragraph is being added at a particularly difficult time for young people. unemployment in many member states of the european union is rising at an unprecedented rate, with greece as a prime example, where youth unemployment now stands at 27.5%. at the same time, the downward pressure on wages due to budgetary adjustment is not allowing young people to become independent from their parents' home but is also hindering the creation of a family. young people today need a decent income to get on their feet and shape their lives. paragraph 63, although it is a declaratory paragraph, is moving in the right direction, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. i voted against the gruny report because, despite the improvements made by the consensual amendments voted in the committee on employment and social affairs, it is a report which promotes the concept of flexicurity and other neoliberal arrangements which lead to job insecurity. although the report is seen as more 'balanced' than its original form, it is still consistent with the commission's green paper on labour, and still considers that flexibility is and should be 'a key tool of the economy'. it is based on the exploitation of the concept of 'lifelong learning' for the benefit of capital and enterprises rather than for the personal and professional advancement of workers, and it promotes the view that 'self-employed' are the kind of workers to be promoted. for the same reasons, namely the maintenance of the concept of 'balanced flexicurity', i voted against the resolution tabled by the green group.
in writing. the kke meps vote against the report, which is in line with the commission's green paper and follows closely the eu's anti-environmental approach to the mass incineration of mixed waste adopted by the community institutions (council and commission) and the political representatives of the monopolies in the european parliament. the report gives priority to the 'energy recovery' of urban bio-waste through 'anaerobic' digestion producing biogas and considers incineration as a 'sustainable alternative' while its adverse effects on environmental pollution and degradation are known and the benefits are negligible. at the same time, it degrades and relegates aerobic treatment, which is a gentle, simple, proven and safe technology, produces a stable product of high quality and significantly lower cost. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe. the report shows that the eu and the political staff of capital in the european parliament exist to serve monopoly profits at the expense of the health and even the lives of workers.
member of the commission. - madam president, as you have understood, i am going to give this answer on behalf of my colleague olli rehn, who, incidentally, may have used a little more of my time on the final answer. sharon bowles talked about angels. i don't know if there are many angels when it comes to financial services. i want to tell mrs sharon bowles that the devil is always in the details, so i will answer as precisely as possible the questions she has asked. firstly, what is the amount of money involved in this european stabilization mechanism? what is the link with the own resources ceiling? madam president, the ecofin council conclusions mention an amount of eur 60 billion for the european financial stability mechanism, but the legal limit is provided for in article 2 (2) of council regulation (eu) no 407/2010, which limits the outstanding loans to the available margin at the own resources ceiling. the own resources decision limits the possibilities for the budget of the european union to call for own resources payments by the member states to 1,23% of the gross national income of the european union. this means that the combined total of the mff ceiling and the total amount of debt service flows on loans guaranteed by the budget of the european union must not exceed 1,23% in any given financial year. that is the specific answer mr rehn wanted to give you on this point. secondly, will the commission carry out an impact assessment for these two instruments? the regulation on the european stabilisation mechanism requires the commission to prepare a report on its functioning within six months of the establishment of the mechanism and, where appropriate, every six months. this report will be forwarded to the economic and financial committee and the council. it will include an assessment of the impact of the text. the european financial stability fund, for its part, is an intergovernmental structure whose operation is not subject to the evaluation obligations applicable to the european union text. thirdly, what is the impact on the eib's financial capacity? the european stability mechanism and the european financial stability facility will not have a direct impact on the eib's borrowing and lending activities. the eib will only provide liquidity management, logistical support and certain back office functions for the european financial stability mechanism. it shall not lend or borrow on behalf of the european financial stabilisation mechanism. fourthly, when will there be a legislative proposal for a permanent mechanism for managing the sovereign debt crisis? on what legal basis? madam president, the commission is working on possible proposals, in close liaison with the work of the working party chaired by president van rompuy. the choice of legal basis has not yet been made. you have just raised the question of the role of the european parliament. the european parliament will be kept informed of any developments in all these new procedures. the legal nature of the european parliament's participation will depend on the legal basis of the legislative proposals, as provided for in the treaty. question no 6: what is the coordination with the international monetary fund? the political conditions of a potential programme of assistance to a member state will be decided by common agreement with the international monetary fund when there is a common package of the european financial stabilisation mechanism and the imf, as is generally envisaged. seventh question, which you have just mentioned precisely: how can we meet the needs of countries outside the euro area? member states outside the euro area may, if necessary, have recourse to the existing rules on balance of payments assistance. last year, the ceiling for aid that can be granted under the facility was raised from eur 25 billion to eur 50 billion, of which eur 15 billion has already been committed for loans to hungary, latvia and romania. in addition, the borrowing conditions under the balance of payments regulations are more favourable than those under the european financial stability mechanism regulation. the eighth and final question concerns the choice of legal bases. article 122 (2) of the treaty was used as the legal basis of the regulation for this financial stabilisation mechanism because the commission and the council acted in emergency situations, in which a number of member states were seriously threatened by serious difficulties caused by exceptional events beyond their control. the commission and the council, under extreme pressure, particularly from the financial markets, had to act very quickly to save the euro. this would have been difficult to reconcile with a lengthy procedure involving an important role for some national parliaments. i would add that the european parliament itself, madam president, called on the commission, in a resolution adopted in april 2009, to adopt a regulation on financial assistance to states on the basis of article 122. that is what i can answer, in the most detailed way possible, to president sharon bowles, on the basis of the specific questions she also asked.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. madam president, commissioner, there is no doubt that the decision of 9 may to set up the european financial stability mechanism was crucial to the protection of the single currency and the stability of the euro area in general. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this decision, as well as the decision to establish a european financial stability facility, finally sent a message of unity and solidarity of the euro area to the international markets, albeit belatedly. the european central bank has shown the same readiness and solidarity by its decision to intervene temporarily in the secondary bond market, a practice which is fully in line with the general spirit of the decision of the euro area ministers of economy. these are, however, mechanisms and measures of a temporary nature, and if we really want to learn from the present crisis, it is obvious that we must not wait for the next crisis to reveal the shortcomings and weaknesses of the euro area and the union again before deciding to intervene. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in this context, the recent commission communication on strengthening economic coordination is certainly in the right direction, but we should not forget that our main objective is a stable and sustainable recovery of the european economy and that is why we need an economic governance framework that focuses not only on the pillar of fiscal consolidation but also on the protection of employment, growth and social cohesion. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the european union is able to take action to combat terrorism.
member of the commission. − the negotiations should ensure that the a priori internal control of the court of justice of the european union, in accordance with primary law, is also applicable in cases where the conformity with a convention of an act of an institution, body, office, or agency of the union is at stake in a case brought before the european court of human rights (ecthr), but the court of justice of the european union has not had the opportunity to rule on the compatibility of such an act with fundamental rights defined at the level of the union. any such procedural means allowing the court of justice of the european union to assess the compatibility of such acts with fundamental rights should be meant to safeguard the subsidiarity nature of the procedure before the ecthr, and should not result in causing unreasonable delays in such a procedure.
member of the commission. − i would just like to inform you that work in the council of europe is ongoing regarding improvements to the execution of judgments of the european court of human rights. so, work is now in progress.
member of the commission. − i confirm that last year the commission presented to the council a proposal for an agreement between the european union and its member states and the principality of liechtenstein to combat fraud and any other illegal activity and to ensure exchange of information in tax matters. in addition, the commission has presented to the council a draft mandate to open negotiations on similar agreements with andorra, monaco, san marino and switzerland. both the draft agreement with the principality of liechtenstein and the draft mandate are still pending in the council, as some member states have political reservations and link those files with the revision of the eu savings directive. i believe that these draft agreements and mandates should not be held hostage to the saving directive revision, as their objective is to fight against fraud at a time when there is an even more urgent need to protect our common financial interests. the commission has no specific information indicating the main third countries, in which european funds choose to set up offshore companies in order to evade taxes. however, it is my conviction that the proposed agreements will contribute to improving the flow of this kind of information and they are essential tools to promote the policy of good governance in the tax area, which is built along the three following principles: transparency, exchange of information and freer tax competition. the objective of this policy is not to target tax havens per se but to reach an agreement with as many third countries as possible on the common principles of cooperation and transparency. the ecofin council has endorsed these principles and has recognised the need to promote them on as broad a geographical basis as possible. the draft agreement with the principality of liechtenstein and the draft mandate for negotiations with four other jurisdictions constitute prime examples of a coherent eu approach. they provide a multilateral framework for minimum rules on exchange of information and assistance between all the parties, which should enable eu member states and third countries to combat tax fraud and evasion more effectively. but the commission is doing more to promote its policy of transparency, exchange of information and freer tax competition in its relations with third countries. this is pursued, notably through initiatives such as the enhancement of administrative cooperation, the code of conduct on corporate taxation or the communication tax and development, cooperating with developing countries on promoting good governance in tax matters, which address relations with third countries. the commission is also very active, together with its member states, within international organisations such as the oecd, notably in the global forum on exchange of information and its peer review process.
mr president, commissioner, it is clear from the practice and from what you have told us today that the member states cannot deal effectively with this very important problem with their own control mechanisms alone. and of course, it is a given that this form of tax evasion deals a very serious blow to growth and creates capital flows not by the criteria of their performance but by how to avoid tax better. there is the other approach, the one adopted in japan or the united states of america, where deposit controls are looser and so these tax havens become less attractive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the member states are able to apply the principle of subsidiarity to all the member states. i would therefore ask what the commission's priorities are, what its strategy is, what its own path is for this effort and what balances it wants to maintain ... i 'm not . (the president cut off the speaker)
member of the commission. − it would, indeed, be one of my priorities in this region. there was no time to talk extensively about the importance of the regional cooperation, especially in that particular region. the issue you raised has already been a subject of my consultations with the regional cooperation council, in a follow-up to a rather successful sarajevo conference. so, it will remain as one of my priorities in dealing with both the countries there and the regional organisations that are equipped to help assist us in this common endeavour.
mr president, commissioner, you will be aware that an explosive situation has arisen in kosovo as a result of the grenade attack last friday against serbian protesters who were protesting against the opening of the kosovo government offices in mitrovica. given that the international court of justice in the hague has already ruled in july on the unilateral independence of kosovo, i would like to ask whether you consider that this action, i.e. the establishment of an office, is objectively provocative and should have been avoided.
mr president, the question of crossborder cooperation is very important and i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i do not think that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i do think that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. the internationally recognised name of one of the three countries is fyrom, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. that is the official name of the country, and you know very well that there are negotiations going on at the moment between greece and fyrom to resolve the issue. it is not possible in a formal debate to write this on the table of parliament.
member of the commission. − after talking to the two prime ministers – prime minister gruevski and prime minister papandreou – i can confirm that the discussions on solving the issue that has been raised by the honourable member are indeed well advanced. i hope that the leaders will use the window of opportunity to solve these issues, thus allowing that country and skopje to start their accession negotiations. to answer the first question, a couple of weeks ago i was in the northern part of kosovo, opening some eu offices there and talking about the programmes and how to make sure that whatever we do for the citizens of kosovo – and of course the citizens of other countries in the region – is shared by everybody and that we do not have isolated places where the citizens do not have these possibilities. you are absolutely right to make the point that before the icj ruling we should avoid any acts that would make the situation more violent or even explosive. with that in mind, after that tragic incident, baroness ashton, the high representative and vice-president of the commission, had telephone conversations with leaders both in pristina and belgrade and called on them to continue the policy of restraint, particularly as we are moving ever closer to the expected icj ruling.
member of the commission. − the commission reiterates at all appropriate levels, at every opportunity, its call on turkey to fully implement the additional protocol to the association agreement and to remove all obstacles to the free movement of goods, including restrictions on direct transport links with cyprus. the commission will continue to report on all issues covered by the 2005 european council declaration in its next annual report. it will deliver a factual, objective report on progress, or the absence of progress, on those issues, as it did last year and the year before. on this basis the council will be able to evaluate the situation and draw the appropriate conclusions.
i would like to thank you very much for your reply, commissioner. i would like to ask you the following supplementary question: in a recent statement, the president of the republic of cyprus, mr christofias, linked the opening of the new chapters of turkey's pre-accession process to the opening of the port of famagusta, stressing that the port could be handed over to the united nations and operate under the auspices of the european union, because a similar proposal had been made in the past, in 2006, and had a positive response from the united nations. i would therefore like to ask what your opinion is, what is your reaction to this proposal from mr christophersen?
mr president, commissioner, the question of banning cloned species on the european market is really a question of respect for the principle of prevention, as laid down in article 191 of the treaty of lisbon. we have not had enough studies on the health effects and the effects on animals of the production and use of cloned species. the same applies to nanotechnologies, and a very important issue to be addressed in this directive is the labelling of genetically modified products. if european citizens have the right to choose whether or not to consume gm products, then they should also have the knowledge whether a product is a product of processing and production in which gm products have been used or not.
the compromise reached with the council, which we will be asked to vote on tomorrow, defines the framework for industrial emissions in europe for the coming decades. it is a legislative success because, in a period of great economic difficulties and of major environmental challenges, a sensible, realistic and balanced solution is being put forward. this is particularly true of the national adaptation plans to be implemented in large thermal power stations. in my country, greece, the original provisions required a violent adjustment, which would have put thousands of jobs and the country's energy security at immediate risk, or, alternatively, would have led to the installation of new filters worth hundreds of millions of euros, which would have entered old factories that would have closed in three or four years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the electricity market is unfortunately not yet unified. it will take time to reach that goal. so if we seek to regulate drastically only one aspect of the market, then we are inflicting serious costs on countries that are on the periphery of the union and have neither the interconnections nor the contact with the rest of the single market. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this. it is a sensible arrangement for which those of us who have warmly supported it have every reason to be satisfied.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr president, commissioner potočnik, it is indeed a moving moment, a historic moment, both today's debate and tomorrow's vote. i see many friends who have fought a hard fight together. we have now managed to bring the council quite close to the original positions of parliament, to have legislation in front of us that protects both european citizens and european producers. until now, a european citizen, when buying timber and timber products, could not know whether it was legal or illegal; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are protected. at the moment, with this legislation and the efforts of parliament, we have managed to get the council to agree to the obvious, namely that illegal timber should be considered illegal in europe too. we have also succeeded in having the control of the conditions, the approval and the authorization of the bodies which will supervise the legal timber evaluation systems, that is, the approval of timber products, carried out centrally through the european commission. we have managed, when each agency is considering whether timber is legal, to take into account the legislation concerning biodiversity and a lot of other things. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the council did not take for granted that the offence of introducing illegal timber and timber products into the european market for the first time should be incorporated into the directive on environmental crime. it's completely absurd. it also maintains the concept of negligible risk, thus opening a window so that some activities do not have to be subject to the procedures provided for by the legislation. but this legislation protects the european citizen as well as the european producer from unfair competition and the low prices that are the fate of illegal timber. finally, i would like to thank very much the colleagues who have worked on this issue, such as alexandros candelepas and my entire office.
madam president, the procedural part concerns the vote on amendment no 2. in the event of amendment no 2 being rejected, the original paragraph 14 is deleted because amendment no 2 is on paragraph 14.
madam president, our group voted today against the resolution on the decisions of 9 may to create the european financial stability facility and the european financial stability mechanism, despite the fact that we consider these decisions to be extremely positive and important for the protection of the single currency and the stability of the euro area. i would like to remind you that the european parliament has long since called on the european council to move in this direction, sending a message of unity and solidarity to the markets. we believe, however, that the european central bank has shown the same readiness and solidarity in its decision to intervene temporarily in the secondary bond market, a decision which was in full accordance with the general spirit of the decision of the council of ministers of economy. we do not therefore understand and do not share the spirit of paragraph 14, which criticises the european central bank for this decision.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report to exclude food derived from cloned animals and their descendants from the scope of the novel food regulation, to impose an embargo on imports of novel food derived from cloned animals and to argue that food for which production processes require specific risk assessment methods (e.g. food processed using nanotechnology) should not be placed on the market until such specific methods are approved for use and an appropriate safety assessment based on these methods demonstrates that the use of such food is safe. these new foods are a threat to agricultural production itself, which has hitherto been the principal food supplier. there is also the question of consumer protection. the provisions of the commission regulation on the labelling of novel foods are deliberately inadequate and opaque to the consumer. the multinationals compete by promoting unsafe scientific technologies in the markets. it should not be the economic interests of corporations that determine the dietary standards of consumers, the majority of whom are opposed to food from cloned animals and nanomaterials.
in writing. in the vote on the goulard report, i abstained on the commission's text on macroprudential supervision of the financial system and the establishment of a european systemic risk board. the body being set up, like the european system of financial supervision, is limited in scope, being limited by certain structural features which derive from the neoliberal notion of the primacy, if not the dominance, of the market. these are: (a) independence from political authority; the institutions will not be accountable to the political authorities of the member states and their mandate will remain narrowly defined and free from any notion of democratic control; (b) absence of citizens from the decision-making centres; these independent authorities do not include representatives of social groups such as workers and consumers but only representatives of the private sector; (c) the structure and functioning of these institutions further fragment policy and supervisory powers, i.e. the division between monetary policy pursued by the ecb and fiscal policy pursued by the member states in the suffocating framework of the stability pact.
in writing. i voted against the proposal to set up a european financial stabilisation mechanism, since its establishment with the assistance and decisive role of the imf is outside any institutional framework. it creates major problems in the formulation of the union's budgetary policies and is the cause of a new attack on workers. the use of this mechanism by eu member states implies the implementation of harsh austerity programmes that deprive workers of income and of their labour and social security rights. on the contrary, for a europe of social cohesion and solidarity it is necessary and urgent to abolish the stability pact, to put the ecb under parliamentary political control and to increase the community budget in the direction of helping workers, pensioners, farmers and the unemployed, in order to promote genuinely sustainable growth.
in writing. the package of legislation voted on the so-called regulation of the financial system in the eu neither can nor wants to regulate and control the financial markets. the allegations of political representatives of the european central bank that markets are being regulated to avoid a new crisis are another lie. crises are inherent in the capitalist system. the next capitalist crisis is already pregnant with this one and it is looking worse. the eu legislative measures are therefore not intended to regulate. they are seeking to create new eu authorities and bodies to make the intervention of the capital mechanisms in the capitalist economies of the member states more effective. they are part of the package of measures of the eu and the bourgeois governments to reform the stability pact more strictly, so that the anti-people lobby of capitalist restructuring needed by capital, ensure uniform, stable and unrestrained implementation by the political forces of capital in all member states. the capitalist crisis and the anti-people attack launched by capital on workers throughout the eu are increasingly highlighting the nature and character of the eu. they prove that the rotten exploitative capitalist system is unregulated; the only way to overthrow it is by a broad social alliance of the working class with the popular strata.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, i would like to thank all my colleagues from all the political groups, because i think we have come together to formulate a consensual and correct, i would say, resolution on albania's accession process. i am grateful for your comments, commissioner. i am pleased that the commission and the european parliament agree on most of the points, and i hope that they will vote in favour of the resolution tomorrow. i would add that, now that we are discussing the case of albania and kosovo in general, and since we are discussing the issue of enlargement, i am convinced (and this is what the resolution defends) that the perspective for the western balkans is their accession to the european union, which, subject to conditions in a very fragile region, can ensure stability and prosperity, friendly relations between peoples and states. what are the conditions ? that this process in general should respect international law, the un charter, international agreements and treaties, as a number of issues within this area are relevant to this report i made. and secondly, the accession process of albania and other countries (in this case albania) can also, under certain conditions, be the motivation for tackling many of the problems that albania has in terms of democracy and cohesion. tracking these problems was perhaps the easiest part of the case. the difficulty, as you will have noticed, mr füle, and as my colleagues will have noticed, is how to persuade, how to inspire the political forces of albania and albanian society to move towards a solution to these problems. and here we have encountered difficulties, steps have been taken, there are still problems, laws have been passed, there is a problem of implementation (it cannot go on with such a level of corruption and entanglement) and, of course, the main political problem. and my observation on this (the impasse is known): i do not think we can solve this problem by excessive external intervention, often perhaps by party affiliation, unless the political forces themselves are convinced (that was our whole endeavour) that solving these problems will enable them to concentrate on the problems, on the criteria for their country's accession process.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate my colleague mr hooda on the work he has done and on the presentation of his report. albania, after the 2009 elections, is going through a prolonged political crisis. the progress made in albania in recent years is not enough to meet the conditions for accession. but we approach it with great leniency, because this country has suffered under the cruel hoxha regime for many years. the major challenges for the country remain; they are the fight against corruption and organised crime, as well as strengthening the rule of law and restoring a basically modern economy. greece has followed a consistent and unwavering policy to date, supporting and promoting the european perspective of the western balkan countries, as well as albania. however, we are particularly concerned about the smooth conduct of the planned census in 2011, which is being carried out at the expense of the european union, because unfortunately there are many complaints about discriminatory treatment of homosexual and minority communities, such as the greek minority community. i therefore ask that questions be asked during the census on mother tongue, national origin and religion, which are necessary conditions for the status of candidate country.
mr president, we all want and aim to maintain peace, to strengthen stability, to create prospects for prosperity, of course, while protecting the rights of minorities and respecting the cultural heritage of all the inhabitants of the region and kosovo. in this endeavor we must be extremely careful. the kosovo issue is extremely complex. there is no room for simplifying approaches. the reality is that kosovo's independence has been recognized since 2008 by 69 countries and taiwan, a number far lower than many had anticipated. five member states have not recognised it. at the same time, many believe that the international court of justice's opinion on the legality of the declaration of independence will be largely ambiguous and unclear. in northern mitrovica the security situation is again a serious concern. in this context, i believe that the european union will risk failing to achieve the noble objectives that we all share if it pursues a monolithic, one-dimensional policy. i therefore believe that it would be appropriate to encourage pristina and belgrade to make a new attempt at dialogue, first and foremost on issues that negatively affect their daily lives and communication, such as local government, customs, education, energy, religion, culture. as regards albania, albania has missed the first wave of visa liberalisation in the western balkans region. because of the political crisis he is now in, he is in danger of losing a second chance. i hope that the albanian political leadership, and in particular the socialist party and its president, will show the necessary seriousness and responsibility to resolve the matter as quickly as possible. i would like to congratulate mr hooda, as have other colleagues, on his excellent report.
madam president, after congratulating my colleague, mr nikos hundi, on his excellent and balanced report on albania, i should like to focus on the report on kosovo. the european parliament's report should aim to send a positive message about kosovo's european perspective but at the same time reflect clearly the situation in the european union with regard to the central issue of the regime. today there are five states which have not recognized kosovo's independence. of course, we all agree that the river is not going back and that a mutually acceptable solution must be found quickly. so our goal was to synthesize opinions, to have a common ground. we have reached this common ground in the decision on eulex, where it was stated that the mission would be neutral on the question of the status. i can therefore only disagree with the two central ideas of the lunacek report: firstly, that the member states which do not recognise kosovo's unilateral independence must accept what the majority considers to be a given and, secondly, that only serbia must make concessions. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. we are also firmly convinced that european integration requires consensus and not unilateral solutions in the case of the western balkans.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the oil spills do not occur in the north sea, and that the oil spills do not occur in the north sea. and i am very pleased that commissioner oettinger is now beginning to think about the proposal that i and mrs lepage made in this chamber in our previous debate on the moratorium. but, commissioner, this moratorium must not be temporary. we need a permanent moratorium, as america has for most of its land. i am also glad that you are discussing the issue of environmental responsibility. we need a change of scenery. we need to know in accidents like this who's responsible, who has to pay. and since you're opening up that discussion, look at the issue of environmental responsibility in both offshore natural gas drilling and ccs. and as commissioner damanaki says, really the only solution may be to finally get off coal as quickly as possible.
madam president, mrs werthmann said it before: although some 33 million people worldwide are now carriers of the deadly virus, many, especially young people, are unaware of the dangers of inattention and there is a great need to continue information campaigns; indeed, the tension that existed in the past does not exist today. a second point to which we must pay due attention is the fight against the social exclusion entailed by the notification of infection, which results in about 30% of the people in the european union who are infected not knowing that they are carriers, thus increasing the risk of transmission. in view of these two objectives, the virus must be treated as a global health priority. the commission and the council must act responsibly and promote the financing of programmes (this is crucial), emphasis must be placed on the guidance and information of young people and, finally, the public must be properly informed and made aware in order to reduce social exclusion significantly.
madam president, it has indeed been said by my colleagues that only 11 member states out of 27 have ratified this important convention on the elimination of the use, production, stockpiling and transfer of weapons of mass destruction. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the question naturally arises as to why the other member states have not yet ratified the convention, although it is due to start on 1 august. the main reason is national security and to a large extent, in some cases, justified, especially when neighbouring states outside the european union are showing increased aggression. i would therefore conclude by saying that if we really want all the member states to ratify this convention and to achieve the maximum possible results in these very important union policies, we must also put pressure on neighbouring countries which are showing tension and aggressive mobility to move in the same direction, and even more so those which wish to join our european family.
member of the commission. − mr president, as this is a joint debate and with the agreement of the chair, i would like to address both the agricultural implications of an association agreement with mercosur and the forthcoming summit at the beginning of the session. i am thus happy to respond in any format decided by the chair. starting with mercosur, the relaunching of negotiations for an association agreement with mercosur is of utmost importance for the eu, both politically and economically. politically, mercosur is the largest regional integration project in latin america, which makes it superfluous to insist on the geopolitical importance of strengthening our ties with the continent. we have agreements in place with chile and mexico, and recently finalised negotiations with colombia, peru and central america, so it is only logical to engage with mercosur as well. in economic terms, a successful agreement could bring considerable benefits to both the eu and mercosur. in these difficult economic times, we cannot afford to overlook the potential of this agreement for our two regions in terms of jobs and growth. mercosur is a large and dynamic economic entity with a combined gdp of eur 1 300 billion and with gdp growth rates expected to reach around 5% in 2010 and 4% in 2011. it is an increasingly important partner for the eu. in terms of eu exports, it ranks on a par with india and ahead of countries such as canada or korea. over the past four years until the crisis hit, eu exports to mercosur increased by more than 15% annually. in terms of foreign direct investments, mercosur is also a key partner. eu investments in mercosur amount to more than eur 165 billion – more than eu investments in china, india and russia together. given its size and potential, and also the fact that mercosur is still a relatively protected market, the economic gains for eu business could be among the most important of the free trade agreements recently concluded or currently being negotiated by the eu with major trade partners such as korea or india. relaunching these negotiations is also a sign of the commitment of both regions to continuing to promote free trade and to reject protectionism. the commission has taken this decision after a thorough examination and in-depth internal debate. in reaching this decision, the commission positively valued the indications given by mercosur, during the informal dialogue at technical level, on issues like trade in goods, public procurement or some services sectors. let me add that immediately after the college had taken the decision i came to the inta committee and we discussed in depth the relaunching of the negotiations. i could even add that the council is of the opinion that i treated the european parliament much better than i treated them, so they were not pleased at all. we did this is on the basis of the mandate that we have, so we did not need a new mandate. this was a proper decision of the college, and parliament was extensively informed immediately afterwards. however, it must be very clear that the forthcoming attitude of our mercosur partners surely allows negotiations to be relaunched, but is of course no guarantee of a successful conclusion. that is something quite different. in order to conclude, we will need to negotiate an ambitious agreement, notably in sectors such as trade in goods and services, or intellectual property, including geographical indications. the first meeting with mercosur took place last week in buenos aires. it was a rather technical round to touch base after more than five years of suspension, identifying where the negotiations had left off in 2004, on process issues and modalities for the negotiations going forward. we will of course keep the european parliament and the council fully informed about the evolution of the negotiations. as regards your specific questions, the commission is working on the basis of the negotiating directives adopted by the council back in 1999. these directives task the commission with negotiating a balanced and comprehensive agreement with mercosur, with the aim of liberalising substantially all trades in line with the eu’s commitments at the wto. this applies to all areas to be covered by the agreement, including agriculture. the commission is very well aware of the sensitivity of agriculture in these negotiations and will take this element into account when negotiating with mercosur. let us also keep in mind that we have substantial offensive agriculture interests in mercosur as well, such as wine, cheese, fruit and vegetables and geographical indications. in this context, we are aware that accompanying measures might become necessary for the most sensitive sectors. it is, however, way too early to discuss what these measures could cover. we are only just starting the negotiations and have not yet entered into discussions on substance. we have not put down agricultural offers at this moment in time and there was a question – i do not know by whom – about the position of the agriculture commissioner in this respect. it is not the trade commissioner who decides what agricultural offers will be put on the table. this has to be agreed between the agriculture commissioner and myself, and if we do not agree then it goes to the college of commissioners and it is the college of commissioners which takes the decision. that is the way it happens, so mr dacian cioloş is fully included in these discussions. we also know that we will have to take into account previous agricultural offers made by the eu in the doha round, of which mercosur is expected to be one of the main beneficiaries. in this context, let me clarify that relaunching the negotiations with mercosur does not undermine in any way our commitment to a successful conclusion of the dda. as a matter of principle, we only negotiate ftas which are compatible with wto rules and which, building on the wto acquis, go much further in coverage than the doha round. i believe that if we make the right choices it is possible to successfully conclude both negotiations. as regards food safety, it goes without saying that imports have to fully respect eu food safety requirements. let it be very clear that there is no intention to negotiate away our health and safety requirements; not with mercosur or anyone else! the eu approach in all trade negotiations is certainly not to decrease the eu level of protection. the wto rules give us the right to establish our own level of protection provided that this is based on recognised scientific evidence – this is an inviolable right. finally, as regards the impact of a possible agreement, a sustainable impact assessment of a trade agreement between the eu and mercosur has already been carried out and has been publicly available since march 2009. in addition, the commission will complete this impact assessment with a more focused economic study in the months to come. now let me turn to the eu-brazil summit and start with a short overview of our relations. brazil has uncontested international stature in line with the size of its territory, its population and its economic performance. it supports multilateralism, is a member of the g20 and is a key player in global debates on climate change, economic governance, the reform of the un, trade issues and the eradication of poverty. moreover, brazil often acts as an informal bridge between western and emerging and developing countries. brazil is one of nine countries with which the eu has entered into a strategic partnership. the partnership dates back to 2007 and the joint action plan, which translates the partnership into concrete actions, to 2008. the multiplicity of joint initiatives, the level of mutual understanding and the deepening of the relationship, which includes 18 ongoing dialogues, bear witness to our satisfaction with the implementation of the joint action plan. this will be the fourth eu-brazil summit at which we will aim to take stock of progress in our relations and discuss the main global challenges. the moment for such an assessment is particularly appropriate as president lula’s term in office approaches its end. as regards environmental issues, at the third summit in stockholm we planned cooperation in view of last december’s copenhagen summit and a bioenergy initiative involving brazil, the eu and the african union. the forthcoming cancún and nagoya conferences on climate change and biodiversity are high on the agenda of the summit, as enhanced coordination with brazil is crucial to a successful outcome. further to a suggestion by president lula at the eu-mercosur summit in madrid, we are looking into a common position with brazil for cancún. the african union commission has received our joint proposal on trilateral cooperation on bioenergy and we hope to hear from them soon. in terms of cooperation in multilateral fora, we are pursuing coordination ahead of the seoul g20 summit to gather brazil’s support to obtain adequate representation of the eu in the un system and to purposefully engage towards a conclusion of the doha round. brazil is seeking to reinforce its influence with the global governance system and needs our support for a permanent seat on the united nations security council. as an advanced emerging economy, it takes a very different stand to the eu in relation to reform of the world bank and the imf. overall, what is certainly clear is that we have a shared agenda as globally relevant partners and we have to find ways to sort out our differences and seek convergence. at the summit we will confirm our commitment to strengthening non-proliferation and encourage closer cooperation. brazil opposed the iran sanctions adopted last june by the un security council. however, the eu welcomed the efforts made by brazil and turkey that led to the tehran declaration, pointing out its shortcomings but also emphasising its value as a potential confidence-building instrument and inviting iran to seize the chance to resume serious negotiations. although we diverge tactically, we find common ground on the principles enshrined in the non-proliferation treaty and the need for iran to demonstrate the peaceful nature of its nuclear programme. i have dealt extensively with the negotiations with mercosur in the first part of my address, but these will of course be raised in the summit discussions. unfortunately, i will not be in brasilia, but given that we have only met recently to have the first technical talks after a long pause the summit is unlikely to take firm decisions in relation to this negotiation. the summit will also address regional issues: cuba, honduras, paraguay and venezuela. brazil’s role in helping to stabilise paraguay, its refusal to recognise the new honduran government, its engagement with cuba and venezuela are all on the agenda. lastly, tough work is still being finalised on some issues where we expect the summit to deliver. first, the signature of a horizontal civil aviation agreement and an air safety agreement. second, the announcement of a joint work programme on triangular cooperation with developing countries. third, a letter of intent between the commission and the brazilian national council of justice to advance trilateral cooperation in electoral support and justice reform will be signed in brussels on 14 july. our relationship with brazil does not end with the summit; we have other initiatives in parallel that help to give a fuller dimension to our bilateral, regional and global engagements, but i have more than exhausted my speaking time. i will try to give additional examples in response to your questions.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, as regards the mercosur countries, i would like to stress the extremely deficitary trade balance to the detriment of the european union in the agricultural sector. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the economic crisis. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he raised this issue last week during the first phase of the negotiations in buenos aires. also, whether argentina's position raises the issue of the incompatibility of its measures with the rules and obligations of the world trade organisation. one offence: the negotiations with the andean and central american countries have been concluded, commissioner. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. how can the commission justify the quotas it has granted in the rice and sugar sectors, which exceed the production potential of the countries concerned? are there any net exporter clauses in the agreements to prevent the development of triangular trade? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission must realise that the conditions of interinstitutional cooperation as provided for by the lisbon treaty and of interinstitutional culture have changed. the more rapidly you move in this direction, the more appropriate and productive will be the cooperation between the two institutions.
mr president, the conclusion of a trade agreement with mercosur will be mutually beneficial to both parties but with enormous implications for the agricultural sector. the president of the commission, mr barroso, himself recognised this aspect, stating the commission's intention to take specific measures to deal with the negative consequences which will particularly affect agriculture. in particular, some agricultural sectors are already affected by bilateral agreements, and the higher standards of agricultural production in the european union are not guaranteed in terms of their superiority in quality compared with the low production costs of third countries. how do you intend to deal with this issue, commissioner, and what kind of objective criteria does the commission intend to put forward in order to avoid this discrimination being reinforced to the detriment of various agricultural sectors?
in writing. we voted against the shameful terror pact that gives the personal data of every eu citizen to us intelligence services as part of 'counter-terrorism cooperation'. the representatives of the european parliament who voted in favour of the swift agreement are ignorant of its content, since only 'trusted' meps were allowed to read the 'secret' text, whereas in the last six months the ep had rejected it twice. they were convinced when the us guaranteed that the secret services would take care of the protection of personal data! the adoption of the 'terror pact' confirms that the ep is ostensibly democratically legitimising the deeply reactionary anti-people policies of the european union. it is also leading the way in establishing a legislative framework for state terrorism and repression, which is a suffocating restriction of democratic rights and popular freedoms. no terror pact respects the freedoms of the people. these measures are aimed at the struggle and resistance of the peoples, their vanguard, the communist movement, the radical forces that do not submit to the barbarity of the exploitative capitalist system. as capital and its political staff intensify the measures of repression and the strangling limitation of the workers' rights in order to consolidate and secure its domination, so will the resistance grow, the insubordinate and inevitable struggle to overthrow the power of the monopolies and their reactionary associations.
in writing. i voted against the report on the transfer of banking data from the european union to america for the same reasons that my eurogroup opposed the previous attempt to enforce this agreement, despite the 'technical' improvements the report brings. the european parliament must not approve the european commission's agreement to hand over personal data to the us government and intelligence services, using the pretext of 'fighting terrorism'. i am opposed to the commission's insistence on transmitting data from financial transactions to the usa in general, because this is a breach of respect for personal data and is information and material that will be used, in effect, uncontrollably by the us intelligence services for their own purposes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the new swift agreement today in the european parliament. the european union is also committed to the fight against terrorism and organised crime by combating illicit financing. it is important that this new agreement also ensures respect for the personal data of european citizens. the new agreement refers to the need to establish a european tftp (terrorist financing monitoring programme). this is a commitment which must be implemented within five years. it is therefore the duty of the european parliament, the commission and the council to proceed immediately with the implementation of this commitment, so that in the near future europe will have even better tools to safeguard the security of its citizens.
in writing. the kke meps voted against the joint resolution of the conservatives, liberals and social democrats on the establishment of the european external action service, because it is an outgrowth of the reactionary lisbon treaty. it implements the provisions for the militarization of the eu (political-military committee, crisis management centre, satellite centre, military committee, euro-army, eulex, etc.) in order to implement the us doctrine of preventive war. it is a tool of nato strategy and warfare. it gives the eu the right to intervene militarily and politically under the pretext of fighting terrorism, even within the member states. the eeas further restricts the sovereign rights of the member states by conferring on the eu powers in almost all areas of a country's policy. it will be a means of enforcing the primacy of community law over national law. it reinforces the imperialist interventionist and repressive mechanisms of the eu (frontex, etc.) and creates new ones (e.g. euromessage). we condemn the unacceptable secret procedure followed by the representatives of the european parliament, the commission, the presidency and the high representative and vice-president of the commission in order to cover up the heightened rivalries and confrontations between the great imperialist powers.
in writing. i voted against the report on the european external action service because it is set up in an opaque way, with confused responsibilities and clearly limited to the control role of the european parliament, the only elected eu institution, which is limited to budgetary aspects only. i also voted against the eeas because it is intended to be a tool for further militarization of the european union, as it also integrates military action, even in cases of humanitarian aid and intervention. the european union must not link its foreign policy or its policy of solidarity in times of crisis with military action and militarized structures and mechanisms. it must develop policies and institutions that ensure an autonomous and peaceful role in international relations, away from american military adventurism and interference. to act with respect for international law and the un charter for a world of peace and solidarity.
in writing. the kke group in the european parliament voted against the resolution because it seeks to consolidate kosovo's illegal secession, imposed by the force of nato weapons and the blackmail of the eu and other imperialist powers. the resolution condemns nato for the war and the dismemberment of serbia, supports the perpetuation of nato troops and bases in kosovo and the wider region, and supports eu intervention by deploying its own forces through eulex. the resolution seeks to prejudge the ruling of the international court of justice in the hague on the legality of kosovo's secession. the imperialist policy of the eu, which supports the resolution, exacerbates the problems of the workers of kosovo, exploitation, corruption, crime, with the intensification of capitalist restructuring, offering them as the only way out migration. it is exacerbating the instability of the region, the oppression of the serbs and the people of kosovo as a whole, the problems caused by the presence of eulex and nato.
in writing. i voted against the resolution on the european perspective of kosovo because it regards and treats it as an independent state. the resolution does not respect un security council resolution 1244/99 and calls on the five eu member states, including greece, which have not recognised kosovo's unilateral independence to do so, in other words to violate the un resolution. the resolution therefore does not help to deal with the problem and does not contribute to consolidating stability and peace in the region. the resolution also calls for an even stronger eulex presence in kosovo.
in writing. the kke votes against the resolution because it opposes albania's accession to the eu for reasons which are contrary to the accession and the continued membership of greece in this imperialist transnational union. the eu and albanian capital, especially in energy, minerals and transport, as well as the aggressive eu and nato imperialist projects at the expense of workers, poor farmers and the small and medium-sized classes will benefit from accession. the resolution calls for the intensification of the capitalist restructuring package imposed in cooperation with the eu by the unpopular and unpopular political system of the country's bourgeois parties. this anti-people offensive - which aroused popular anger in the 1990s - leads to privatisations, massive unemployment, emigration, abandonment of the countryside, intensified exploitation, crime and corruption. it is attempting an unprecedented open intervention in the country's internal affairs and political debate, calling for undemocratic arrangements in the functioning of political parties and parliament. the policy of the eu and the albanian bourgeois forces on the road to accession is exacerbating the country's development problems, worsening the position of workers, intensifying brain drain and the flow of migration and entailing major security risks in the region.
in writing. i signed and voted in favour of the resolution on the entry into force of the convention on the proliferation of weapons and the role that the eu should play, not only because it is a matter of the utmost importance but also because greece is unfortunately one of the countries that has not even signed the convention. it is a convention which must be applied immediately by all states. cluster munitions are characterised by a high lethal footprint and pose serious risks to civilians, especially when used near populated areas. the consequences of these are tragic even after the conflict has ended, because the use of these munitions has caused many civilian injuries and deaths, as the unexploded shells that remain on the ground are often discovered by children and other unsuspecting innocent victims.
in writing. the report on the cap's outlook after 2013 promotes a european union policy that eradicates poor and middle-class farmers and boosts large-scale capitalist agricultural production. the cap, the health check revisions, the wto decisions have had dramatic effects on poor and middle-class farmers. greece, which before joining the eec/eu exported agricultural products, now spends €2.5 billion on imports of products it can produce. 20,000 jobs are lost annually in the agricultural sector, production is declining, agricultural income in the period 2000-2008 has decreased by 20%, while 75% of agricultural holdings have an annual gross profit of €1,200-9,600. the report considers the painful consequences for small and mediumsized farmers to be a success. the aim of the report is to adapt the cap to the strategy of monopoly capital for the rural economy, as expressed in the eu 2020 strategy: "competitive agriculture", large-scale business ownership in the rural economy, which will concentrate land-community subsidies at the expense of poor and middle-class farmers, fierce competition for shares in the eu and global markets. the commission's decision to suspend or abolish community agricultural subsidies for those member states which do not comply with the conditions of budgetary discipline laid down in the stability pact is in line with this.
mr president, we are called upon today to adopt an important piece of legislation concerning international trade, the implementation of which will have serious consequences for the european market. in the present circumstances of the international economic crisis, whenever a free trade agreement is concluded, the steps must be very careful to avoid the risk of serious damage to the union's productive sectors. the safeguard clause in the fta with korea needs to be incorporated into european union law in order to have legislative force and be able to be triggered without complications. at the same time, the european commission should systematically monitor import and export statistics in order to intervene immediately in the event of an imbalance. it should also carefully monitor compliance with the requirements on working conditions and environmental standards so that unfair competition is not created in the same products or in directly competitive products by reductions in the above criteria. finally, i would like to stress that we agree with the application of the regional safeguard clause to the better functioning of the internal market, since it allows measures to be taken in regions and countries where there are industries with a significant, often central, market share. the free trade agreement with korea is the first to open up the union to such a large asian market and deserves particular attention, as it will serve as a model for other similar agreements.
mr president, commissioner, farmers' incomes, to be fair, must meet three conditions in the present circumstances: first, it must be sufficiently stable to allow the producer to plan and invest for the long term; secondly, it reflects the value and costs of production as they would be in the free market for agricultural products and inputs if there were no external distortions introducing instability and distorted price relationships; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the price of the agricultural product is not exceeded by the price paid by the consumer. the fulfilment of these conditions requires a different approach to farming and the formulation of the common agricultural policy, as well as active action by the european union, complementary to the cap. the bové report aims to do this by taking a holistic approach, with proposals on transparency, competition and the fight against abuse of power in the award of contracts, the suppression of speculation and the safeguarding of conditions for the sustainability of production in the present circumstances.
madam president, the eurozone debt crisis, which has led my country, greece, at the instigation of the european union, to the international monetary fund, has highlighted the great social and democratic deficit of the european union, and in particular of the treaty of lisbon. so, in addition to social coups - for example in greece the collective agreements were abolished - we also have political coups, as the legal government of greece does not take decisions because all these are determined by the memorandum signed with the european union and the international monetary fund, the greek parliament does not decide whether to approve or reject these decisions, but all these are decided by presidential decrees. but, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, what i wanted to point out is that we are also facing a political coup at european level, because the financial mechanism created under article 122 to lend to the countries of europe has not been consulted by the people, it has not been consulted by the european parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, we all stress the need to invest in education, in the knowledge society. and we do that by all means. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i will give you an example from greece: in greece, a student is admitted to higher education after passing an examination. the basic measure of 10 was recently introduced by the greek government: the student, in other words, must write 10 out of 20 in order to be admitted to higher education. the greek government recently repealed this measure for reasons that are not entirely clear. the result is that a student was admitted to a greek higher education institution with a score of 0.91 out of 20. if anything, that needs to change. we must all condemn such phenomena if we are to promote higher education throughout europe.
in writing. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr portas, on his report and pervence beres on her important contribution on behalf of the committee on employment. the continuing economic crisis and its extremely unpleasant consequences have further highlighted the added value of the egf as a tool for the european union's social policy. the targeted financial support it provides for programmes for the retraining and reintegration of workers affected by collective redundancies is of particular importance. it is therefore necessary, as stated in the text of the report, to maintain until 2013 the temporary changes introduced in 2009 to extend the scope of the egf and expiring in 2011. let us not forget that these changes gave the green light for the practical expression of solidarity with workers who were laid off due to the global financial and economic crisis. but it is also necessary to carry out a comprehensive evaluation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, on the basis of which concrete proposals can be made and considered for simplifying it in order to make it work faster and more efficiently.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. - madam president, first of all i would like to welcome the presence and the intervention of the belgian presidency of the council. i believe that the idea of this debate on the state of the union as conceived by parliament was also to launch our programming exercise. that is why we must also concentrate on legislative work. as you know, in europe the commission takes the initiative and then, of course, parliament and the council must intervene to conclude the legislative process. i would also like to stress the aspect that the belgian presidency has mentioned, the importance of achieving concrete results. we have presented, both in my speech and in the document i sent you through president buzek, the outline of a very ambitious programme, which includes, for example, the community patent, public services - some have spoken of this - and many other measures which are the real test, not only of the community method, but of our concrete ambition for europe. as for ambition, i want to welcome a fact. i have just learned that the council, meeting at the level of the ministers for economic affairs and finance, has approved our proposal for the european semester. here's a good example. you will remember that when the commission proposed a few months ago the idea of a european semester, that is to say, that we should meet at the beginning of the year to prepare our budgets and discuss how we can actually coordinate economic policies, there was immediately a lot of reaction from some people, who we know well, who said that this was a challenge to national sovereignty, that it was even a challenge to national parliaments. which was not the case at all. the truth is that in the end, thanks to the work also done by the task force chaired by mr van rompuy, thanks to the proposals strongly supported by the commission and the council, and always with the support of this parliament, we succeeded. we are building this european economic governance. i have said it and i want to say it again: we must not just have a monetary economy, we must have a genuine european economic policy. we shall continue along this line. i announced this in the speech and the commission will fight for these proposals. one of the members of this parliament said: 'you have made some interesting proposals, but what guarantee is there that they will be successful?' that's a good question, you know. we have to work together. we will move forward with that ambition. and in the end we must have the clear support of this parliament and also the support, sometimes unanimously, of our member states. the commission is taking its responsibilities. and i now ask the other institutions to make the same effort. there will be a special debate on the roma issue this afternoon. the vice-president and commissioner for justice and fundamental rights, ms reding, and the commissioner for social affairs, mr lászló andor, will be present. i think this will be the best time to go into the very important questions you've asked. on the question of subsidiarity, i would like to stress that we are in favour of subsidiarity and solidarity in europe. i did not say that a euro spent at european level is always better spent than at national level. i didn't say that. what i said and what i want to reiterate is that there are indeed many areas where there are synergy effects, there are scale effects. the way we spend at european level is the only way to give europe its capacity to act and to bring the maximum benefits to our citizens. we must take this debate seriously, because i have seen the majority of this parliament express an ambitious idea for the budget which is to be presented. we must win this debate in the public opinion of our member states. it is obvious that this will be a very complex debate, in an extremely difficult economic situation. if the member states cannot increase their contribution, resources will have to be found so that the european union can show results. what we are not going to do is ask europe to produce results without giving it the means to produce them. it would not be possible to do so and therefore a very serious debate on solidarity/subsidiarity must be held on this subject. some of the policies you have mentioned here are policies that we need to develop at the national level. the question of pensions, the question of social security, is a question which is primarily a matter for the national authorities. there are different models. what the commission says - and we have indeed said in various documents - is that it is obvious that we need to reform this sector. if we want to ensure the sustainability of our pensions, not just our pensions but our children's pensions, given the demographic changes in europe and the ageing of the population, it is clear that reforms are needed. now it is up to each government to determine the pace, the consensus, and the scope for making a thorough reform. but if we want to win the global battle of competitiveness, we cannot do that if we are constantly reducing working hours, if we are reducing the number of people in work. we cannot do that and we must have the courage to say that if europe is to win the battle of competitiveness, especially against certain emerging countries, we must work harder, we must work longer. if anyone suggests otherwise, he is not telling the truth. more and better, that's the truth. in the same way, it must be said very clearly that without budgetary consolidation we will not have confidence. without trust, there is no growth. without job growth, there's no growth. so fiscal consolidation is a key element. at the same time, we need investment in areas which, of course, have a future. in europe, as at national level. this poses an extremely serious challenge. we in the european institutions, but also those who have to decide at national level. how can we ensure that in a time of such difficulty the investments we make are investments for the future? at european level we are saying which areas. i have mentioned the areas in which we will make proposals for a more ambitious europe. for smes, of course, we have mentioned some practical ideas. i would also ask you to look at the document accompanying my speech, in particular the single market act, the single market, the legislation we are going to propose on electronic signatures, the many simplification measures, the removal of certain obstacles which actually make life difficult for our businesses, especially small and mediumsized enterprises. the truth is that for the vast majority of small and mediumsized enterprises there is still no integrated market. they work mainly in their national markets but there are no real opportunities yet for them to exploit at cross-border level. in conclusion, i must say that we believe that there is indeed, as some of you have mentioned, a trust problem. a problem of trust not only at european level. a problem of trust, especially in political institutions in general. this poses a great challenge and a great responsibility for all policy-makers. i think it is precisely by demonstrating the strength of conviction that it is possible to have answers that are at the same time serious answers and strong answers. not the soft center, not the false consensus. but to have the courage to defend, for europe, this policy of balance, this policy of respect for the differences that exist in europe. there are differences in europe. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. it's the truth. and it is absolutely legitimate for a government to defend its national interests. the question is how to demonstrate that they can gain more at national level if we also have a stronger europe. there are also sometimes ideological differences. they're all legitimate. but will it be possible, or not, to have a strong consensus for europe beyond these ideological differences? i think it's possible. the commission does this every day with my colleagues from 27 countries, with different cultural backgrounds, different nationalities, different ideologies. we work every day with determination for the european interest. i believe that together with you, directly elected by our citizens, we can do more for a europe which represents this spirit, a europe of solidarity, a europe of conviction, a europe which is at the same time the europe of the single market and the europe of cohesion.
the debate on this point is closed. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
in writing. mr president of the commission, the cost of overcoming the crisis must be shared fairly and the way out of the crisis cannot be pursued unilaterally through cuts and the inevitable consequent surge in unemployment in some member states (to the benefit, in fact, of the economies of some other member states). the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union must promote two very specific policies, both among its member states and internationally at the next g20, and finally do so with conviction and determination. firstly, it must fight tax havens decisively. at a time when our workers and pensioners are suffering from severe cuts, it is unacceptable that a small number of individuals and companies are taking at least a trillion euros from our economies through this 'legal' tax evasion. secondly, a tax on financial transactions must be introduced so that those who led us into the crisis can finally pay their fair share. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for her report.
in writing. i voted against the report on financial assistance to moldova, despite the fact that i believe that the eu should provide financial assistance to moldova to meet its financial obligations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the fact that the eu is linking the provision of financial assistance to the coercion of the country to obey the policies dictated by the imf is morally and politically unacceptable. in greece, as in other countries through which the imf has passed or is still present, we see its harmful effects and we resist it.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because it criticises the 'europe 2020 strategy', which fails to address the issues of unemployment and social cohesion, and calls for changes to the regional development fund, the european social fund so that they actually promote employment and equal social inclusion. the report also aims to initiate discussion and put in place concrete measures to create quality jobs, with full pay and social security, promoting environmentally and socially sustainable development. in this context, the report argues for a strong public sector role in promoting its sustainable development with public services and infrastructure with environmental and social criteria. it argues for a new industrial policy, education and skills development in a way that creates a sustainable economy, promoting gender equality and a strong role for workers' representatives.
in writing. the report confines itself to the tragic situation which is worsening daily in the food chain and criticizes the commission for shortcomings in its communication. it accepts the commercialisation of food and proposes solutions to improve competitiveness, transparency and information on the food market, without touching on the root cause of the problem, which is the capitalist mode of production that robs the small and medium-sized farmer of his sweat and the working consumer of his income. in greece the anti-people policies of the eu, pasok and nd governments have supported the monopoly domination of the food market and the creation of cartels in food products such as dairy and flour, resulting in retail prices soaring, further increasing the exorbitant profits of the food industry, while being burdensome for workers and the popular family. the satisfaction of the people's food needs lies in the common anti-monopoly struggle of the working class, the small and medium farmers, the popular strata. struggle to break and overthrow the anti-people policy and its agents, so that power passes into the hands of the people, the means of production become social property, agricultural production is organized in a planned way, based on the needs of the working-class family in the framework of the people's economy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the bové report not only because it is in the right direction and contains very important elements, but also because it brings about many important changes to the commission's original text. the report promotes productive diversity, cultural heritage in agriculture, retail and direct sales by farmers, employment and financing of small and medium-sized farmers and cooperatives in ways that ensure food independence and environmental protection. the need to ensure a fair income for farmers is stressed and the commission is therefore asked to take this into account in all budgetary proposals. the report calls for improvements to the legal framework for private quality labels to avoid duplication and to ensure transparency for consumers and easier access for producers. the report also considers it necessary to prohibit below-market selling at community level and urges the commission to review the criteria currently used to assess unfair competition behaviour because the herfindahl index is useful for assessing the risk of monopoly situations but cannot give the true dimension of unfair competition practices of a syndicalist and oligopolistic nature, as appears to be the case with large organised chains (gdo).
in writing. i voted in favour of the portas report, mep for the left euro group, because it makes the right point about the importance and role of the european globalisation adjustment fund and at the same time indicates and proposes ways of making use of it in order to support the dismissed 'victims' of neoliberal globalisation and the economic crisis that particularly affects workers in europe.
in writing. the european parliament, in a period of intensifying capitalist crisis, takes initiatives to manipulate workers' consciences and to organise eu propaganda in the media, both private and public, in order to silence any voice opposed to the interests of capital and to create the image of a false consensus on imperialist projects. the report sets out the objectives of fully subordinating public media to eu propaganda and their interconnection with private monopolies of the media. to achieve this, it is proposed to increase community resources for private and public media, to create and strengthen central structures for monitoring and filtering news. it promotes the training of journalists in the interests of capital and its involvement in the activities of the media in the member states through the european audiovisual media observatory. support for eu projects through the strengthening of information and propaganda bureaus, the intensification of ideological and political intervention in favour of the eu and the rotten exploitative system. it is once again proved that the independence of the media, like their pluralism and pluralism, is a blatant attempt to deceive the workers, but it cannot eliminate the only way out for the popular interests, the struggle for subversion and rupture, to serve the contemporary popular needs.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because it recognises the lack of transparency and democracy in the european institutions and, therefore, the need to develop new online media and journalism to better inform citizens about the eu. it also recognises the importance of guaranteeing the independence of the media and freedom of expression.
in writing. since the introduction of the euro, a coherent set of measures to protect the single currency against counterfeiting has been put in place, including legislative initiatives, technical tools and institutional changes, with an emphasis on close cooperation between all stakeholders at national and european level. in its recent reply (e-0107/10) to my question, the commission notes that the number of counterfeit coins remains extremely low, at no more than 0.2% of the total number of coins in circulation. article 3 (1) of regulation (ec) no 1338/2001 also provides that technical and statistical data on counterfeit banknotes and coins detected in the member states are to be collected and recorded by the competent national authorities. nevertheless, this proposal for a regulation further strengthens the tools to combat counterfeiting by clarifying the procedures for authentication and handling of euro coins unfit for circulation. it also looks forward to the implementation of common procedures for verifying the authenticity and mechanisms for the control of these procedures by the national authorities. these proposals strengthen action against counterfeiting and that is why i voted in favour of the relevant provisions and the report as a whole.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank members for their very useful comments. i shall try to group my response around three sets of issues. firstly, short-term and long-term priorities, and how we can integrate the advice you have given us here. secondly, the political environment and how we can protect the neutrality and independence of humanitarian work as well as the safety of humanitarian workers. thirdly, the eu’s disaster response capacity and what we are currently doing to make sure that it is stronger in the future. on the first set of issues, i am very much aligned with the comments that have been in made this house about ensuring that we focus on those at risk of being excluded. this especially concerns the more conservative areas of pakistan, women, and of course children in women-led households, who are at very high risk, and minorities, including religious minorities, to which reference has been made here. in any country, including in this case pakistan, those communities that are simply hard to reach are at particularly high risk. they are cut off either by nature or because of conflicts. i can assure you that we screen proposals from our partners very carefully to make sure that our funding, to a very large degree, targets those at risk of being excluded. i will follow up with my staff in more detail the specific question that i was asked on the treatment of religious minorities. i do know that we consider minorities very carefully and i am sure we have more specific information on that, as well as on the situation in kashmir. i can say that we have been working with ngo partners there to be able to reach out to people. the point was strongly made here that agriculture is the foundation of a large part of pakistani society and the pakistani economy. as the water recedes it may leave more fertile land, but that will only be an opportunity if we are there fast to help farmers recover their capacity to plant. as always in the case of a disaster, if the response is put together well, especially as regards longer-term rehabilitation, it can also bring improvements in terms of security. that brings me to the point that was made about the need to look at raising funds from others. in other words we should use our moral authority to urge others in the neighbourhood, the gulf nations, to contribute to pakistan. they have been doing that and it is true that the eu, having acted quickly and massively, does now have a capacity to call on others. we will continue to do so as we prepare for the friends of democratic pakistan meeting here on 14 and 15 october. the high representative vice-president catherine ashton, together with the minister of foreign affairs of pakistan, minister qureshi, are going to co-chair this meeting, and we have already agreed to have a special expanded session to try to raise attention, support the efforts of others and urge others to contribute. as far as our member states and our own resources are concerned, i can say the following. as regards the commission’s resources, eur 70 million has already been committed and a large part of it has already been disbursed. the week i was in pakistan we ran out of money for the urgent relief projects that we are supporting with very credible organisations and very competent people who operate on the ground. our staff there have already made it clear that we will need to provide additional resources. as regards the member states, i want to pay tribute to the uk, germany and sweden. they are the biggest donors. in many cases they have already delivered their assistance. the commission and the member states have a shared competence in this area. of course, we are cooperating and we would like to see all our commitments fully deployed. as far as the priorities for our longer-term response are concerned, it is very clear that the economic forecast for pakistan will have to be revised downwards. in other words the growth forecast for next year will drop from 4.5% before the floods to maybe 1%, or even to below zero. there has been massive destruction that has yet to be assessed, but it will be in the order of billions. therefore it will be necessary to mobilise support for pakistan in a holistic way. that means that all possible options as to how the support can be provided will be looked into. obviously the commission has no lending capacity, so debt relief is not something that i can take a stand on from the point of view of what the commission can do, but one of the options would be to look at pakistan’s capabilities. we will make sure that your voice is heard as these options are discussed. similarly, there will be questions about trade and what can be done. i can tell you that commissioner de gucht is already very seriously looking into what we can offer through this holistic way of responding to the country’s problems. let me add one more point. we also have to work with pakistan to support the government in the reforms they are undertaking in order to get the economy on to a more solid footing – including reforming how they organise their public finances and their budgets – so that the floods do not end up distracting the government from doing the right thing for its own people in the long term. that is also something we are discussing. of course helping pakistan is also a matter of political stability in a country that is so very important for its own region and for the rest of the world. in this sense we very much hope that our collective action will not only save lives but also prevent chaos from erupting in this very sensitive place. in doing so, for those of us who care about the humanitarian side, it is also very important to always stress to the authorities – as i did when i was there – that the security of humanitarian workers is crucial. the other side of that is for us to ensure neutrality. who we help cannot be based on factors such as religion, gender, or rural or urban location. this matter of the neutrality and safety of humanitarian workers is profoundly important. 19 august was the day of humanitarian workers. on that day, sadly, we noted that last year we lost more humanitarian workers than peacekeepers. 102 humanitarian workers died. in the context of pakistan, every day i wake up with great anxiety as to whether a life will be lost in responding to this disaster. i just want to confirm that we take this very seriously. let me finish with the point about strengthening the eu’s disaster response. i am very grateful to those of you who spoke positively of what we have been doing with a view to being better organised and better coordinated. i am also grateful to those who say we need to do more, and i agree with that. let me give you just one example of what coordination means in the case of pakistan. as i said, we deployed our civil protection coordination team in pakistan. we got 12 member states to provide in-kind assistance. we organised ten flights as an eu air bridge to pakistan – two by the czech republic, one financed by finland and seven co-financed by the commission. we actually brought assistance on behalf of multiple countries in a coordinated fashion and then, in a coordinated fashion, we distributed it on the ground. so progress is being made but, to those who say that more needs to be done, my response is ‘all power to your voice’. hopefully you will see from the commission a very determined and ambitious way of approaching what it means to have a strong eu disaster response capacity. since this is a discussion we will be having in the future, i would sum it up very briefly in four points. with regard to scenario planning, we need to be much better prepared in anticipating the types of disasters that are to come. secondly, we need pre-determined and committed assets from member states on which we can rely when a disaster strikes. whenever we have a disaster and i make a call for assistance, i do not know at the moment of the call whether or not i will get what is necessary. luckily for me, so far every time we have called on them the member states have come through, but it would be much more prudent if we could predict upfront what the commitment of the member states is and what assets we have in hand. my third point concerns strengthening coordination. i am not going to say more about that. obviously, we need to get our 27 plus one to act as one. fourthly, we need a holistic approach to crisis response that incorporates prevention, preparedness, response and rehabilitation feedback. these four points are the foundation of the proposal i would present to you. madam president and honourable members, thank you again for your advice to me and my team.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the report by mr csaba őry, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states (com (2010) 0193 - c7-0111/2010 - 2010/0115 (nle)) (a7-0235/2010)
mr president, i would like to congratulate mr ory on his excellent report. it is a report based on consensus. this makes the report more powerful and should be taken very seriously by the commission and the council. we, as socialists, are pleased because we can see in this report our constant basic position that we believe it gives a solution to the problems of unemployment and human dignity. we are talking about equal pay for equal work in the same place. however, i must add to this the question of dignity. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted. the council seems to be willing to take all of this into account, but i would say that it is not enough to include it in the explanatory statement, but that it should also be included in the main body.
member of the commission. − one of the main follow-ups of this work on pensions in the green paper will be the initiative to hold the european year on active ageing in 2012. this is now in the process of being prepared and will soon be announced. there will be some related work on demography in between. we would like to build this european year on active ageing to support the employment opportunities of older workers, in combination with looking at what needs to be done in order to develop lifelong learning schemes and to preserve health, because all these are factors that influence the employment opportunities of this age group.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, the memorandum of understanding signed by the greek authorities with the commission, the european central bank and the international monetary fund provides that the greek government is to adopt legislation for minimum entry-level wages for groups at risk, such as young people and the long-term unemployed. the goal is to promote job creation for groups who face a higher risk of unemployment and, therefore, of social exclusion. young people are commonly paid sub-minimum wages in other member states, such as belgium, the czech republic, france, ireland, malta, the netherlands, slovakia, portugal and the united kingdom. while the main argument for introducing a minimum wage is to minimise in-work poverty, high minimum wages may increase labour costs, and that may constitute a barrier to young people’s entry into the labour market and thus contribute to higher unemployment. the very high rate of unemployment among young people in greece is evidence of the difficulty they face in getting into the labour market. the national figure for unemployment among those aged 15 to 29 for april this year was 30.8%, compared to an average of 19.8% across the european union. that figure is expected to rise further this year and next. long-term unemployment figures are also higher in greece, which highlights how hard it is for the long-term unemployed to get back into the labour market. some measures in the memorandum of understanding provide an emergency response to a critical situation. they involve the setting of minimum wages in nominal terms for a period of three years and are targeted at those facing difficulty in entering the labour market, such as the young and the long-term unemployed. quality of jobs and decent employment conditions remain a top priority for the union, as is shown by the integrated guidelines – which were discussed this afternoon – which provide the framework for the europe 2020 strategy. the commission constantly advocates a set of measures to address labour market segmentation, to ensure the unemployed and other vulnerable groups have adequate support and to foster sustainable employment and social cohesion. these measures are also tangibly supported by eu funds and the european social fund, in particular. in greece the european social fund finances a number of measures to boost access to the labour market, with priority for young people, women, the long-term unemployed and other vulnerable groups. it does this through a range of measures, such as personalised services for the unemployed, work-experience programmes for new entrants to the labour market, the promotion of employability or re-skilling, support to professional mobility and so on. the memorandum of understanding also sets targets for greece to increase its absorption of structural and cohesion fund resources channelled into high investment and growth projects.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i do not know whether the memorandum contains proposals from the commission or the greek government's own ideas which ultimately led to these conclusions on the reduced wages for young workers. the memorandum also states, and you have also mentioned some figures, that by 2012 unemployment will gradually increase in all social groups and that the group most affected will be those aged 20 to 25. and i ask, how could we reach 2020 and even come close to the objectives of our strategies at european level if we drift away from them?
the need to protect the rights of freedom of expression and freedom of the press is extremely important and acquires new meaning, especially in our time, for two main new facts. firstly, technological progress - as has already been said - has created new means of communication. we now have the internet, we have the blogs, we have the blogs that we all know, we have social media, we have internet radio and internet tv. this is a new medium with a great impact. and at this point i want to mention that in greece, about two months ago, a journalist, creator of a major blog, was murdered. although these new instruments have a very high profile, their operational framework has not yet been fully regulated, both legally and ethically. the commission itself has often said that we are all relying on self-regulation of these instruments. it is clear that the freedom afforded to these media, and even the anonymity, often leads to abuse and ultimately to misinformation of the public. the second fact is that the concentration of publishing and television activities in a few powerful business giants is now the result of the submission of businessmen, politicians and, in many cases, entire governments to the wishes of these giants. in conclusion, it goes without saying that we are often led, in the name of freedom of expression, to silence the political world, but also to silence the journalist-worker who is not objectively able to operate and inform the public that follows him. in conclusion, it is well known that our powers at european level are limited. we have, of course, the opportunity to press for our part, but always in a context and in an environment of broad consensus among all the actors involved, in an environment which offers immediate solutions to the eu member states emerging from the greatest crisis of the last 80 years.
madam president, when we all speak in this chamber about the elderly, we may not take into account that we ourselves may one day find ourselves in the position of the elderly and reach the age of 80, 90 and 100 years. have we ever imagined how we would like to be treated then? the people who are now in advanced age are the people who gave us life, they are the people who gave us civilization, they are the people who are our "personal property". the long-term care of the elderly has not only an ethical and social dimension but also an economic one, because the care that each elderly person needs entails a reduction in the productivity of the working members of his family. but if we also introduce a care programme, it might even be possible to create jobs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in conclusion, i would like to thank the interpreters and translators who are giving us the opportunity to express our views even after midnight.
madam president, commissioner, yesterday's decisions by ecofin, together with the agreement on an effective system of financial supervision, are essential steps towards the new economic governance we envisage. but the challenge we face today is broader. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the challenge is to shape a new economic model that responds to the european citizens' demand for full employment and fair growth. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european employment strategy, the establishment of a european employment strategy and the establishment of a european employment strategy. we must of course tackle macroeconomic imbalances and the competitiveness gap between member states which inevitably leads to economic and social inequalities. but above all, we need a model of fairer distribution of the costs of recovery and tax justice. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax on financial transactions is not used as a means of discouraging the development of new products. europe can and must play a leading role in this. it did so by fighting climate change and making unilateral commitments. it can and must lead the effort to promote such arrangements at international level.
member of the commission. - madam president, thank you to each and every one of you for what you said about the collective result achieved on supervision. i would like to return to what mrs ferreira said earlier, when she spoke of the citizens who are being pushed around, challenged by all these financial, economic, social and, let us not forget, food and ecological crises. i think we have to make sure that we show the citizens that we are learning from the crisis because they are the ones who elected you and we are accountable to them. that is what we have just done on supervision and it will have to be explained and said, and we have started to do that. i am thinking of mrs mccarthy's report on crd iii and the pay scale. i believe that, in relation to each of the issues that have shocked, agitated and challenged citizens and politicians, we must show that we, parliament, the council and the commission, are providing answers at european level, and concrete answers. on the transaction tax, mr šemeta has done a very important and useful job of analysing the different avenues, the consequences of creating this tax if it were only regional. i think it's important work. i will tell mr giegold that the commission president at the g20 in toronto has made a clear statement on our behalf in favour of a fair and substantial contribution from financial services. we'll confirm his positions in october. so mr karas, you will not have to wait long, and i also say to mrs figueiredo that this debate will continue. it's not about being right all by yourself. we must convince the europeans - and mr reynders can say better than i that there is still a long way to go at the level of the 27 governments, a long, long way. then we have to convince the rest of the world. i think, as mrs wortmann-kool, mrs swinburne and mrs vicky ford have said, that this tax, in order to be really effective, must be created on the broadest possible basis. that is why we must convince the rest of the world. since i'm talking about the world, a word about global governance. i confirm to mr skinner that we will prepare this comparative table. in fact, after having done it between the americans and the europeans, i think we should also be interested in the other regions of the world that i have just mentioned: the chinese, the indians, the brazilians, and africa too, which has its place and its role and suffers many consequences. so i'll be careful to use all the elements that mr. skinner mentioned. as regards the governance that mrs podimata mentioned, and mr martin too, we do not always have the same methods, the same laws, because our economies are not the same. mr. martin was referring to volcker's famous strategy, too big to fail. we have another analysis in europe which is, regardless of the size of the banks and the diversity of their activity, to make sure that there is good external and internal supervision and good governance and not necessarily to prevent the diversity of their activities. the european parliament plays an essential role in the area of supervision. mrs goulard recalled the work that has been done under your impulse to give the agencies credibility. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. mr karas also said that thanks to the original, exceptional decision which you all took together in july to postpone your vote on the first reading until autumn, we had time, thanks to you, to convince and move forward with the council. i do not forget all that and i thank you again. i would like to conclude by mentioning, as mrs auconie said, the need for 'more europe'. let me say, ladies and gentlemen, that i believe we must regulate. we need to do some monitoring, learn from the crisis. we must clean up the public finances because today's debts are the taxes of future generations. we have to do governance. i'll say a word in conclusion. that's not enough. we also need to support an economic project. that is what president barroso said very strongly yesterday, and that is what we will continue to do, and it is also in this context that you will have to understand the proposals we will make in the autumn through the single market act to make the internal market work better and find out what percentage or 2% of growth europe could achieve if the internal market worked better. i would like to conclude with the economic coordination that many of you have mentioned. i would remind you that my colleague olli rehn and president barroso will be making some rather strong proposals for action on governance at the end of this month. as regards the european semester mentioned by mr portas, mr giegold, mr karas, mr sánchez presedo, mr cutaş and mrs auconie, you clearly have a political impulse to give to this new method of coordination, of radar screen, of active photography, proactive towards governments while respecting, madam president, the prerogatives and sovereignty of the national parliaments. i think that's very important. i was a national deputy and senator for 20 years. i would have been very happy if, when voting on my country's budget, i had been told in a photograph, in an independent and objective way, what is happening in other countries, how the same objectives, the same disciplines, are being achieved, sometimes separately, with different methods, and in common. so, on all these matters of coordination and governance, i can confirm the willingness of the commission and the availability of my colleague olli rehn.
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking you and all those who have spoken in favour of the agreement reached on financial supervision. this is a joint work of parliament, through the rapporteurs in particular, of the commission and the council. as i said earlier, we are at the beginning of a process and, in order to demonstrate that supervision is really an added value, and perhaps the first lesson to be drawn from the financial crisis, we must first choose the people who will be responsible for supervision in the most objective way possible - i believe that the procedures chosen are in that direction - and then demonstrate the effectiveness of supervision in the various areas if we want, as many have asked in this house, to move towards more european supervision. it is only by demonstrating the effectiveness of this integrated supervision at european level that further progress can be made. but, again, this is probably the first and most important lesson from the financial crisis that we have to put this new architecture in place. it is now up to us to make it work as well as possible and to strengthen, step by step, the truly european character of this new supervision. the second point i want to make - mr gauzès referred to it earlier - is that we are going to be working on a trilogue again this afternoon, we are going to be talking about investment funds again, and i think that everyone must move, that everyone must accept the same approach that we have just taken and succeeded in taking for financial supervision. it is true that there are still blockages in the council, and there are debates in your assembly on a number of aspects of this development concerning investment funds, but this is a subject which must be improved. i think that commissioner barnier and i really want to set a tight timetable for the entry into force of new texts. on investment funds - we will try to make progress this afternoon - we must take the same approach and try to establish a framework which is a european framework and which really protects citizens and consumers in the context of a number of products or activities which are developed on the territory of europe. i would simply say that, in order to take stock of the state of play of work in the field of regulation and supervision, michel barnier announced that at the informal ecofin council there would be a comparison, in a way, of what is happening on both sides of the atlantic. i would like to confirm that i intend to invite the chairman of the committee on economic and monetary affairs to this informal ecofin to discuss this point, to discuss the state of play of the work, which concerns not only the council and the commission but also parliament. we shall therefore have the opportunity, at the end of this month, to discuss this matter with parliament. it is important to note the changes we are making on this side of the atlantic as well. thirdly, the taxation of financial transactions. i do not want to go back to the resolution funds, but michel barnier has announced that he will be presenting concrete proposals in the coming weeks. as regards taxation of financial transactions, almost ten years ago, during the previous belgian presidency of the council, i tried to simply put the matter to the vote. and we haven't had a chance to debate. we had about the same unanimity as the belgians on this. that was the only consensus around the table. this time the debate really got under way. i can hear a number of strong requests to put forward concrete proposals on rates, on the plate, on the use of the recipe. perhaps we would first need to see ideas evolve in a number of european countries before we can really start discussing practical arrangements. what we are going to do in preparation for the g20 is not to refer the matter back to the g20. it is also an attempt to find a number of partners with whom - there are some - we can go in the same direction. but i would like to stress that this debate will continue, actively. it has already been discussed in depth at this ecofin. we will take up this again at the end of the month at the informal ecofin and i really hope that we can make progress, but also on the allocation of resources. let us not be mistaken: this is not a question of solving crises through taxation. it may be, as many have suggested, to combat speculation. it is also about freeing up financial resources - and we are already using them three or four times: once to fight climate change, once for development aid, once to fill budget gaps. it is a debate which will not be easy, but i admit that we are far from agreeing on this point. i would like to conclude, madam president, with the question of budgetary consolidation. let us not be mistaken: the european semester is a milestone. there will be others, we will discuss sanctions. the approach that has just been taken is to discuss this first, perhaps for the euro-zone member states, before looking at how to extend these mechanisms to european union states which are not members of the euro-zone, in accordance with the current provisions of the treaties. the idea is, of course, to move towards macroeconomic convergence, to consolidate the budget, but i would like to remind you that the pact that binds us in budgetary matters is a pact for stability and growth, and that we will not forget the debate on growth, employment and the social and environmental policies to be pursued in europe. the whole budget debate is not simply a debate about the return to balance in our various states. it is a question of seeing what kind of budgetary quality will not only make it possible to move towards balance but also towards growth, job creation, the development of social policies and active participation, i say very active, in the fight against climate change. that is all we are going to try to achieve. the belgian presidency is of course available to make progress on these various points and, as i said earlier, we will do so again this afternoon with regard to the investment funds.
in writing. the debate on the statements by the president of the commission and the council on the ecofin decisions highlights the alignment of the political staff of capital with the strategic choice of the monopolies to impose the burdens of the capitalist crisis on the working class and the popular strata. the commission's own figures, which show that the capitalist recovery is anemic, unstable and uncertain, contradict the artificial optimism. that's why they intensify the savagery of the anti-people attack with additional means and mechanisms: the so-called 'enhanced economic governance' and the 'european semester' for stricter compliance by member states with the stability pact. promoting the anti-people europe 2020 strategy more quickly and effectively. changes to the eu budget and close monitoring of member states' budgets for the uniform implementation of drastic cuts in social spending. the rumours of the creation of european authorities to control financial capital, tax banks and stock exchanges are fireworks to manipulate the popular movement and the growing popular resistance. the plans prove once again that the anti-working class war unleashed in greece by the pasok-eu government and the other parties of capital is not a greek peculiarity, but a strategic choice of capital throughout the eu.
the debate is closed. the vote will be held on wednesday 8 september 2010. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the commission statement on the ongoing negotiations on the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta).
member of the commission. − mr president, firstly i would like to thank all the members of parliament who have made interventions. this is very valuable information for us a couple of weeks before what will probably be the ‘end game’ in tokyo, and we will certainly take it into account. before speaking about confidentiality, i will answer a couple of technical questions. one was with respect to the trips agreement on public health, and whether this would be explicitly mentioned in the agreement. it is explicitly referred to, as follows: ‘recognising the principles set out in the doha declaration on the trips agreement on public health adopted on 14 november 2001 by the wto at the fourth wto ministerial conference held in doha, qatar’. there were also some questions on privacy. there again, when you look at the text which is currently being discussed, it says ‘nothing in this agreement shall require any party to disclose information (...) which would be contrary to its law or its international agreements, including laws protecting the right of privacy’. further mention is made in the draft text under discussion to the effect that, with respect to enforcement in digital environments, enforcement procedures shall be implemented in a manner that, ‘consistent with each party’s law, preserves principles relating to freedom of expression, fair process and privacy’. so, explicit mention is made of all this in the agreements. let me say a word on medicines. i do not believe that there is a problem with medicines – not only because of acta but also because we are currently engaged in discussions with india on this. they have filed a request with the wto on medicines. we are in discussion with them and i think we will come to a conclusion soon, one that i think will be appreciated by the european parliament. i would also add that these kinds of patents are not covered by the chapter on customs in acta. there is an explicit reference to the obligatory licensing practice, which is very important in this respect. finally, on confidentiality, we have no problem disclosing the texts that we are discussing, but we are not alone. this is a plurinational negotiation, which means that the other parties around the table also have to agree on what will or will not be made public. the explicit question raised was whether you will have the possibility of discussing the eventual agreement before it is signed. it is not yet clear whether we will reach an agreement, but if we do, we have made sure that we will be in a position to discuss it before signature, as the commission has obtained this in the negotiation. as you can see, the press release issued at the end of the washington round explicitly states that the ‘parties commit to release the text before deciding to sign it’. i think it is difficult to be any more explicit about this. thank you very much for your attention.
the debate is closed. the next item on the agenda is the votes. (the sitting was suspended for a few minutes)
in writing. i voted against the ori report, despite the fact that it includes some important amendments by the left euro group, such as the obligation to ensure gender equality, and despite the fact that it improves the commission's text. i voted against it because the report does not depart from the logic of market flexibility and calls for even more and for a strategic use of flexicurity in the labour market, which is known to be directly against workers. the report also considers that the exit from the economic crisis and the implementation of development policies will require restructuring based on the full exploitation of the internal market and the removal of various 'legal obstacles'. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of workers are not infringed.
in writing. the commission's employment guidelines and the european parliament's report on them are part of the eu's anti-people strategy 'europe 2020' and its 'integrated guidelines'. they form the single framework of the eu's anti-working class policy which is already under way and which must be promoted in an even more determined and coordinated way in all eu member states. the central theme is the attempt by monopoly capital to cheapen labour to the lowest possible level, a prerequisite for ensuring its profitability in the context of the ongoing capitalist crisis. to this end, the eu, civil governments and the political forces of capital in the member states and in the european parliament are strongly promoting the employment guidelines: increasing the length of time spent in employment, raising the retirement age limits on the pretext of demographic ageing and the 'sustainability' of public insurance systems. the dominance of "safety", of flexible, temporary, partial forms and relationships of work, the sweeping of every worker's conquest. adaptation of education systems to the training of employable workers for the needs of capital. provision of cheap scientific manpower hired intellectuals for enterprises. the creation of a poverty-level network for extreme cases of poverty, to prevent social explosions caused by the savagery of exploitation.
in writing. the european parliament is quick to declare its support for imperialist plans in the middle east, for the open military threats of israel, the united states and nato against iran. on the pretext of the brutal stoning of sakimeh-mohammadi-astiani and the unacceptable persecution of the popular movement, all the political groups in the european parliament have adopted a resolution by a rare unanimity, which escalates the imperialist intervention in that country. the kke did not support the resolution because it has nothing to do with the solidarity required in the struggle of the working class against the reactionary and obscurantist regime which, on the contrary, is strengthened by sanctions and such resolutions. it is characteristic that the debate in the european parliament was decided immediately after a visit by the israeli embassy in brussels, which called on it not to deal with the violation of democratic rights in israel but to turn its attention to iran. the european parliament's sensitivity to human rights is the fig tree for the eu's aggressive foreign policy, for its crimes against workers, migrants and peoples. the fight against nato, the eu and the imperialist associations is becoming more and more necessary if the peoples are to win rights and freedoms, if they are to determine their own destinies.
mr president, reading the common position and the criteria to be met by arms exporting countries, the image of israel came to my mind. it is a state which does not respect international law, which violates human rights, which has invaded gaza, and on this point, ladies and gentlemen, i would also like to point out to those who have asked the question that i have not seen their voices raised, in the light of recent events, to the effect that, along with the other sanctions to be imposed on israel, which does not respect these criteria which have otherwise been affected by the common position, there should also be a sanction for the non-export of military equipment, for the non-export of arms. the first speaker referred to the example of greece in the context of europe's solidarity policy. i would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that while criterion 8 of the common position states that when a member state of the european union wants to export arms to another it takes account of the economic capacity of the country to which the arms are exported, in the case of greece, france and germany are pressing that country to buy their arms to secure their political support, and they are pressing it at a time when greece is in a very bad economic situation and is subject to multiple controls, at a time when pensions, wages, etc. are being cut in that country. this is a hypocritical position and shows that, in the context of this logic, the issue is that the profits of the military industries are the priority and not a pacifist position of principle that the european union should follow instead of resolving disputes by military means.
my fellow citizens! arms and military equipment are not a simple commercial product but a very specific area that directly affects national security. exports of arms and military equipment to third countries, in particular those with questionable democratic regimes, human rights abuses and cooperation with countries with terrorist backgrounds, can pose a significant threat to the european union and beyond. it is for this reason that it is considered to be an important component of the european union's common foreign and security policy. how can we talk about a common defence policy, as barroso said yesterday, if each country sells its weapons separately? the french decision to sell mistral warships is a direct transfer of military technology to a third country which is not in a military alliance with europe. it should be noted that the transfer of technology does not in itself mean that the country concerned has become or will become more friendly to the european union, as the french minister for european affairs, jean-claude le grand, has concluded and as some debaters are concluding today. no european union strategy can succeed unless it is based on commonly agreed principles. this also applies to solidarity between the countries of the european union and to the respect of the common interest in the decision-making process. the importance of solidarity is underlined both in the treaty on european union and in the council's position on the control of exports of military technology and equipment. temporary individual economic interests must not stand in the way of the common priorities and objectives of the european union. decisions affecting the foreign and security policy of the european union must be taken jointly in consultation with all the member states of the european union and they must establish an adequate legally binding mechanism to analyse all possible consequences according to criteria developed jointly. thank you.
mr president, this question to the council today is an opportunity to raise another important issue which many of us supported during the european assembly and in the context of the intergovernmental conference, namely the question of defence and security in europe as a whole and the creation of an arms production organization and a common defence organization. it should be noted that in the united states tanks are produced by only one line, whereas in europe they are produced by 16 different lines. so we would have economies of scale. however, in the light of the council's common position of 2008 on arms export controls, we must admit, mr president of the council, that there is no effective control. i am not talking about france, i am talking about all the countries of europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have the feeling that the group which exists within the cfsp is not in a position to check the member states to see exactly where they are exporting arms. if we can apply this common position and put in place specific restrictions, then we have taken a step towards success. but we will only have real success in arms export control if we can create a genuinely common defence and arms production organisation which will enable us to reduce costs and at the same time uphold our principles and values and put them into practice in the case of both arms production and exports.
member of the commission. − mr president, the debate today has shown once again the great importance that we all attach in the european union to civil society. a free and active civil society underpins the development of a healthy democracy. i have taken note of the many remarks you have made today and will convey them to our israeli partners. i will also find a way to inform the high representative and vice-president on certain aspects of our debates, as she is our representative in the quartet and is effectively ensuring that the european union continues to play a very important role in the middle east peace process. before i conclude, let me make two more very important points. the first is that we will continue to provide funding to ngos for eligible projects which respond to our objectives. secondly, we will continue dialogue with the israeli authorities within the framework of existing political arrangements. dialogue must remain open with this very important partner at all levels and through all channels. let me assure you, in conclusion, that the commission will continue to follow this issue and will continue to advocate to our israeli partners the need to promote and further facilitate, rather than restrict, the work of an active ngo sector.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the situation in the jordan river with special reference to the lower jordan river by paolo de castro, véronique de keyser, jo leinen, adrian severin, on behalf of the s&d group (o-0092/2010 - b7-0452/2010).
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank you for this opportunity to discuss the critical situation of water in the middle east. the european union considers water to be a serious concern in the region and i fully share the concerns of the honourable members of this house, as this region is characterised by water scarcity, water stress and the deterioration of the quality of water, which are likely to be further aggravated by climate change effects. we are aware of the impacts this can have on the people in the region, the environment and regional security. the european union considers that water is a peace priority in the region and this regional challenge requires a regional solution. as you are fully aware, the european union has been involved in encouraging urgent steps towards a comprehensive peace deal between israel and the palestinians, where water is one of the ‘final status issues’ to be resolved, along with borders, refugees, jerusalem and security. the european union recognises the specific situation of the lower jordan river basin and the need for more efficient water management including its tributaries. we are therefore engaged in a range of activities at national, sub-regional and regional level with all neighbouring parties. we are supportive of water reforms and policies that encourage the application of sustainable water management. through the european neighbourhood policy and other measures, the european union is supporting confidence-building measures, promoting cross-border cooperation and bringing together water resource communities that have shared water concerns. european union activities target capacity-building of different water authorities and users, the collection and sharing of data, the availability of treated waste water, water conservation measures, including water networks, and efficient irrigation systems. european union efforts address both the demand and supply side of the water sector and establish the conditions that will enable an integrated management of water resources in the future. the european union is not alone in its efforts. member states and other donors are active and we closely coordinate our activities with them in order to ensure complementarity.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the european parliament has been very active in the debate on the jordan river, and i am sure that the commission will be very active in the debate on the jordan river. the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly has drawn up a special study on the jordan river and its valley and has called for their protection in its resolutions because the jordan river is a world heritage site, a religious and cultural symbol for millions of citizens around the world and an ecological, tourist and economic asset for the inhabitants of the region. the aim today is to highlight the problems of the jordan river and the need to mobilize to protect it and to intensify the efforts of the european union - the commissioner referred to them, we have also touched on them on other occasions in cooperation with public opinion - and to call for regional cooperation, fair access for the peoples of the countries bordering the jordan river and the sharing of the responsibilities for its protection. the resolution also highlights good practices, such as a special regulatory masterplan drawn up by israel, and calls for the exchange of good practices and know-how as jordan is a collective issue in the region. it is also important that the real risks are highlighted, which is not just water deprivation, it is not just pollution, but it is the loss of biodiversity and the risk of desiccation if the same situation continues. to highlight this international and regional cooperation, the resolution also proposes a special committee for the jordan valley, which would be open to the countries directly related to jordan israel, the palestinian territories, jordan and other countries in the region where the jordan river originates, which also share responsibility, such as lebanon and syria. i believe that this resolution will have the support of the house and that the message that the european parliament will send will be coherent, targeted and strong.
member of the commission. − mr president, transboundary challenges call for common efforts. the european parliament has rightly drawn attention to the need for a cooperative approach in this area. the european union promotes the spirit of cooperation needed to address the middle east region’s serious water challenges and advocates treatment of the problems at source, and not just the downstream symptoms. let me conclude by confirming that the european union will continue to contribute to the efforts to alleviate the water deficit in this region and to ensure the provision of clean water resources, preserving the environment and safeguarding drinking water for the people of the region. the european union will continue to support activities conducive to a future rehabilitation of the river jordan and to the possible future establishment of joint and integrated management of the river basin, if that is the choice of the countries in the region. the european union will keep supporting dialogue and promoting cross-border cooperation on water issues between the various neighbours in this region, contributing to confidence building. serious efforts and political commitment are needed from the neighbours themselves to balance the available resources and demands. this includes not just governments, but also civil society. as in europe, individuals, companies and local municipalities need to contribute to the sustainable management of water resources. this is a challenge that confronts us all.
i have received five motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority'. (the sitting was suspended at 5.55 p.m. pending question time and resumed at 6 p.m.)
president of the council. - as regards funding, there will be a general debate, obviously budgetary, on how the next budgets will have to encompass a number of flagship initiatives and legislative perspectives adopted under the europe 2020 strategy and so, of course, if there are a number of new policies in favour of the disabled person under this strategy, it will be necessary to see how the budgetary means can follow these new policies. in relation to the development of legislation, it is necessary to examine the role that the commission can play in relation to existing legislation. in taking action in accordance with the competences defined by the treaties, the council is simply seeking to play its active role in the protection of disabled people. for example, ten years ago the council adopted a directive prohibiting discrimination in particular against disabled people in the field of employment. the council will of course continue to play its part in this matter.
president of the council. − at present, the macroeconomic and budgetary surveillance procedures set out in articles 121 and 126 of the treaty are the cornerstone of the coordination of our economic policies. at its meeting in march 2010, the european council set up a working group chaired by the president of the european council, composed of representatives of all member states, the european commission and the european central bank, with a view to analysing the measures needed to achieve the objectives of an enhanced resolution framework and budgetary discipline by exploring all options for strengthening the legal framework. the working group presented a progress report to the june european council and in this report the working group stressed that the budgetary surveillance process should be strengthened, including by placing greater emphasis on the level and evolution of debt and its overall sustainability in the context of the stability and growth pact. in addition, the working group considered that more effective macroeconomic surveillance procedures are needed to detect macroeconomic imbalances at an early stage and to formulate recommendations to prevent their worsening and their repercussions. finally, specific indicators to be analysed in this respect need to be defined, but private debt is certainly one of those which could prove important. the council of 8 june and the european council of 17 june approved these guidelines. the working group should present its final report to the october european council on the basis of the results of its work. the process of adopting new union legislation or amending existing legislation may be initiated as appropriate. the presidency will undoubtedly give priority to any initiative in this direction.
i thank the minister for his attempt to answer my question, but unfortunately i did not understand something you mentioned in what i am asking: whether private debt is taken into account in the new plans - these are the ones you will decide in october, mr minister - and whether in the context of the planned economic governance a new interpretation of the stability pact, the methods of implementation and private debt have any place. i would be grateful if you could answer my question.
president of the council. - of course, the issue you raise is important and will undoubtedly be one of the considerations linking the current study and the perspectives put forward in the way in which the networks will be transformed, adapted and designed.
madam president, mr minister, just recently the letter of the chairman of the transport and tourism committee of the european parliament was published, stating that, as part of the cuts in expenditure imposed on greece as a result of the memorandum of the international monetary fund and the european union, the greek government is going to suspend the operation of a number of railway lines forming part of the tent-t network for the modernisation of which financial aid has recently been granted by the structural funds. since this decision is contrary to environmental grounds, to the reduction of road traffic and to the infringement of european union law, i would like to ask whether the council intends to examine the complaints made by the president of the commission and whether it intends to ask for such a decision to be revoked.
president of the council. - as regards the first question, concerning the reduction in greece's capacity to invest in the networks, i think, on the one hand, that the commission is competent to deal with the subject, but we can ask questions. secondly, i have no specific answer to give as to how to respond to the reduction in capacity in greece, but we can contact the commission services to see how to answer this question more precisely. as regards the need for consistency and the financial means to be provided, i refer you to the financial perspective for 2014-2020, and i refer parliament to this matter. i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on this subject too, in accordance with the principle of codecision on budgetary matters, and i am counting on you to put on the agenda for future budgetary discussions the means of achieving this so-called coherence with the transport objectives.
president of the council. − in its conclusions of 30 november 2009, the council recalled that the open method of coordination has actively contributed to the proper functioning of labour markets and to social inclusion. the exchange of good practice in employment has proved and will continue to prove particularly useful in the future, which will require effective follow-up of the employment guidelines which will be adopted shortly by the council, following the opinion of the parliament - the opinion which you have delivered today - and a key role for the epsco council in the context of the new governance, which should be decided by the european council, in particular in the context of the european semester. last year, moreover, when the council adopted a new strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training, the new members recognised that the achievement of the main strategic objectives set out in the framework required an effective use of the open method of coordination, which shows that they continue to support this particularly useful method in areas falling within their national competence. the recent joint report 2010 of the council and the commission on the state of play of the implementation of the education and training 2010 work programme draws attention to the considerable progress that has been made through the open method of coordination in european cooperation in education and training. in the same vein, the council, in its conclusions of 7 june 2010, drew attention to the interest, in the context of the current general discussions on the europe 2020 strategy, in fully developing the integrated approach through joint work at european level, using the framework offered by the open method of coordination in the field of social protection and inclusion as a mechanism that has demonstrated its significant potential. however, in the face of the new challenges and prospects offered by the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, in particular with regard to monitoring the implementation of the european council's objective on poverty reduction and the social aspects of the employment guidelines, in particular guideline 10, the presidency invited member states at the informal meeting of social affairs ministers on 9 july to launch a process of reflection on strengthening the open method of coordination. in particular, in its november 2009 resolution establishing a renewed framework for european cooperation in the field of youth 2010-2018, the council has already set out a number of general principles to be observed in all policies and activities concerning young people, in the context of a renewed and more integrated method of coordination. in this connection, the presidency will organise a conference on 14 september and the epsco council on 21 october should, on the initiative of the presidency, discuss this issue again, which should be the subject of conclusions on employment and social inclusion.
i thank you for your answer, but i would like to know the following: the open method of coordination in the crucial areas you have mentioned - education, employment, training, youth - is a very important tool at our disposal, in the context of the subsidiarity and the responsibilities of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
president of the council. - more effective coordination and mutual learning should have positive effects, it is true, you have just underlined one of the aspects, concerning the achievement of common social objectives. and more generally, it is true that in terms of growth, employment, poverty reduction - highlighted in 2010 - active inclusion policies can not only reduce poverty but also increase the supply of labour. reforms of pension systems can also raise the employment rate and ensure the sustainability of public finances. the same is true of health care systems. i therefore believe that in 2010, the year of the fight against poverty, we can implement this coordination and mutual learning.
president of the council. the council has repeatedly emphasised the long-term structural problems of the greek economy in the various multilateral surveillance exercises. in parallel to the excessive deficit procedure, the council recommended to greece on 16 february 2010 to implement a comprehensive package of measures to improve the functioning of product markets and the business environment, to support productivity and employment growth, to improve the efficiency and rate of absorption of the union's structural funds, and to correct its excessive budget deficit and ensure the long-term sustainability of its public finances. greece submitted the first report on the implementation of these measures on 16 march and the second in may. in june, the commission and the international monetary fund carried out a preliminary analysis of the €110 billion stability support facility, which the euro area member states and the imf have jointly provided to greece. the analysis was completed in august, but the council was not formally informed of the commission's final report. the commission has informed the euro area member states of the preliminary results of the analysis and if, in the commission's assessment, economic developments are in line with the projections underlying the adjustment programme accompanying the stability support mechanism, the rise in the inflation rate tends to reflect an imperfect functioning of product markets. the council will therefore monitor the situation closely and continue to take action, as appropriate, to assist the greek authorities in promoting economic growth and maintaining a sound fiscal policy. if, according to the commission's assessment, the economic development is in line with the projections underlying the adjustment programme accompanying the stability support mechanism, the rise in the inflation rate tends to reveal an imperfect functioning of the markets, as i was saying. the same applies to the budgetary situation, which the council will be monitoring closely.
mr. secretary, i'm afraid you haven't answered my question. the measures imposed on greece as a result of the memorandum - the process you described in the memorandum of the international monetary fund and the european union - are schizophrenic. on the one hand, in order to collect state revenue, taxes are imposed which cannot be collected because workers have no other income and small businesses do the same and while they talk about deflation, they plan new tax collection measures by increasing vat on consumer goods, increasing taxes on heating oil. and the question i want to ask you is: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet the requirements of the budget. i would therefore like to ask you whether ecofin has discussed, whether the european union has proposed, in addition to tax collection measures, corrective measures to prevent an explosion of inflation in greece?
president of the council. - i cannot tell you precisely what ecofin has decided in the last few hours, but the council has repeatedly pointed out the long-term structural problems of the greek economy in the various multilateral surveillance exercises. in line with the lisbon strategy for jobs and growth, the council, in its recommendations on the 2009 update of the broad guidelines for the economic policies of the member states, noted the imperative for greece to step up its efforts to correct macroeconomic imbalances and address structural weaknesses in its economy. the council recommends that greece increase competition in the professional services sector and investment in research and development, make more efficient use of the structural funds and reform the public administration, and take a series of measures concerning the labour market as part of an integrated flexicurity strategy. i can only say that the greek authorities have confirmed that they have given priority to several planned structural reforms in a whole range of areas, while understanding the difficulties this creates in the country.
mr president, the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. at the same time, there is again discussion of measures, as you tell us in the council, again of new taxes. i would like to ask whether we have more specific measures of a developmental nature, both from the council, europe and the support mechanism, and also from greece. do we have a specific timetable?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. why is this really happening? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not forced to use cloned animals. you and your colleagues have spoken about the danger of the world trade organization. it's an argument we hear over and over again in this room, it's a political argument. the commission and its legal advisers should not be making these fears public, but should be looking at how we could have the moratorium requested by the house without having such problems. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's food industry is not affected by the introduction of the cloning of animals, and that the european union is not forced to take action to prevent the spread of the disease. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the health of the european citizens is not compromised.
in writing. the total hypocrisy of the political forces supporting the european road is reflected in the resolutions tabled in parliament which shed crocodile tears over the plight and persecution of the roma. the european commission, faced with the widespread reactions, decided to set up a special group to study the problem!! they think that this will soothe the general outcry about the policy of discrimination and limit it to the decisions of the french and italian governments to deport the roma. the political voices of capital that take turns in the governance of the member states and co-decide in the eu believe that by condemning these government decisions, they can clear the eu and themselves of the ongoing and systematic discrimination against roma. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is all the more acute the more vulnerable the social strata are and the greater the returns they can secure on capital. the roma will increasingly find themselves confronted with the eu, its institutions and the forces that support it. only their common struggle with the workers to overthrow the exploitative society, against the eu and its supporters, can lead to respect for their rights and the satisfaction of their contemporary needs.
in writing. i voted against the motion for a resolution by the epp and the ecr on the situation of roma in europe for the following reasons: 1) focuses on the actions (european strategy: action plan, absorption of resources, cooperation between member states and others, roma involvement, etc.) that need to be taken to lift the exclusion experienced by the roma community in various european countries, 2) does not focus on accountability, 3) does not distract public attention from the essence of the problem: the failure to date of roma integration policies. 4) does not contribute to sterile political confrontation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, about 80% of the illegal immigrants who are found at the external borders of the union are found in greece. in greece, some 126,000 illegal immigrants were arrested in 2009. of these, about 5,000 (4,852 to be exact) are from pakistan and 36,472 from turkey. i mention these to conclude: the agreement with pakistan is very important and has indeed lasted a long time: it's been eight years. article 16 provides for the protection of human rights and we expect a lot from this agreement. i would remind you that in spain, malta and italy, the number of illegal immigrants has been reduced as a result of these agreements. i hope that the agreement with turkey, commissioner, will not take another eight years. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. but we have no announcement. i hope again that it will not take much longer. we don't have that kind of latitude.
mr president, i too would like to congratulate mr kazak on his objective report. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the first concerns paragraph 26 on energy supply. i believe that both the commission and the european parliament have overestimated the importance of turkey in the energy sector. turkey does not produce energy. turkey is an excellent gateway for energy networks. it doesn't solve our particular problems; there are other networks through which energy can be transferred. let us be realistic and let us see that in the energy sector all that we are discussing (nabuco etc.) is a paper exercise because the country itself cannot supply us with energy. on the contrary, it is a country with a large industry which needs energy and it is in this light that we should look at it. the second point i want to make is about trade: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. wherever you go, in shop windows, in open markets, in turkish bazaars, you will find that there are very good, admittedly, imitations of european products everywhere. turkey is also a country of entry for counterfeits from the east. if we do not solve the trade problems we have with turkey, problems which are affecting the european market, we cannot proceed to any further talks.
mr president, we recognise the importance of the eu-turkey trade relationship. the european people's party has taken a responsible attitude by contributing as much as possible to the balancing of the original text of the report under discussion. we call on turkey to comply fully and immediately with all its obligations under the additional protocol to the eu-turkey association agreement in a non-discriminatory manner and recall that such failure may further affect the course of the negotiations. i would also like to point out what mr rinaldi has stressed, and now mrs javela, that turkey is a high ranking country among the countries producing counterfeit goods and seizing them in the eu - i repeat, a very high ranking - and that it does not effectively apply the rules on copyright protection. the union's external action, including the common commercial policy, shall aim to safeguard the democratic principle and respect for the principles of the united nations charter and international law, and to build partnerships with third countries which share those principles. the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is a fundamental principle of the treaty of lisbon. the european union is not negotiating with turkey, but turkey is negotiating with the european union for its accession. the burden of adjustment is on turkey itself. opera has shown its face.
mr president, i too would like to congratulate mr kazak on his very good and objective report. the european union's trade relations with turkey are extremely important and therefore must be approached with particular care. but we must also point out areas where there is room for improvement. i should like to mention two of these points: we have had and still have the debate about whether turkey is a european or a non-european country. we certainly want turkey to be a european country and to be able to become a member of the european family one day. but when it comes to pirated goods, counterfeit goods and the lack of copyright protection, turkey is certainly more asian than european. the second point i would like to make is the customs union. the customs union is at the heart of the european project, the project of european integration. it is therefore inconceivable that a candidate country has not fully implemented the customs union and that there is a member state with which turkey refuses to enter into a customs union, and that member state is the republic of cyprus.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday, 21 september, at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the report by mrs esther de lange, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the implementation of eu legislation to conserve biodiversity (2009/2108 (ini)) (a7-0241/2010)
mr president, you know that green spaces are vital to the urban environment. the experts are calling for 7 to 10 square metres per inhabitant, which is the average european standard. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment in the cities of greece, and the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment in the cities of greece. an obvious solution is to green at least existing public land. such are the multitude of camps that are crammed into the cities and the former athens airport, the greek. the memorandum of the greek government with the commission and the international monetary fund, provides on page 28 for a review of the use of public assets to repay the public debt. if the limited reserves of public land are eventually allocated for this purpose, the environmental balance of greek cities will be dramatically burdened and the future will be jeopardized. all european policies on the urban environment are overruled by just five words of a document imposed on a member state by the commission itself. i ask myself whether the european institutions can accept that.
in writing. i would like to begin by congratulating mr ferreira on his excellent report. it is extremely important to give a broad overview of the vital role played by local and regional authorities in the disaster management cycle, as they are the ones most affected by the severity of disasters. i would also welcome the specific reference to the needs of mountain and island regions and the need to reduce disparities between regions in their ability to protect their populations. it should be borne in mind that experience and initiatives in this field have been developed at all levels: local, regional, national and european. what is needed now is more cooperation between actors and more policy coordination. in this context, as i have argued and with the amendments i have tabled in the committee on regional development, improving the capacity for prevention requires, inter alia: -build on the valuable experience gained under the interreg community initiative; -further strengthen and exploit the structures of transnational, crossborder and interregional cooperation; -make full use of the european single emergency telephone number '112'; -simplify the management rules and increase the flexibility of the eu solidarity fund. we are all called upon to take responsibility for the implementation of the report's proposals.
on behalf of the efd group. i would like to congratulate you, mr president, mr vidal-quadras, on the excellent report which sets our internal market in order. but i would like to make one thing clear, ladies and gentlemen: europe has by no means secured or solved its great problem of alternative gas suppliers. on the contrary, i would say that if you look at who the suppliers are for the sustainability of the gas pipelines that we as europe have designed, you will see that there is only one supplier left. russia has secured gas supply deals with every possible supplier in europe - even iran - to imagine how effectively it has encircled us. i have no objection, but in this case, commissioner, we should, in cooperation with mr tajani, find a proposal for trade commitments on a reciprocal basis with russia, so that we can also commit it from an economic point of view. and i ask you: have you considered speeding up the lng action plan? suppliers from north africa and the gulf are there. do you intend to increase lng terminals in the mediterranean? alternative suppliers are available and i ask you to give this matter due consideration.
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating mr vidal-quadras on his important contribution to the achievement of this comprehensive compromise with the council, and in particular at first reading. the new regulation addresses serious inherent weaknesses in the security of gas supply in the union by strengthening action at european level, by strengthening the powers of the european coordinating body, by introducing early warning and vigilance criteria and, of course, by the clauses on the protection and better service of consumers, and in particular of the most vulnerable social groups, which must be our main priority. however, i would like to stress - as parliament has always stressed - that we need to move beyond piecemeal approaches to energy security and move towards a coherent european energy policy, by strengthening, in the first instance, regional cooperation and promoting projects to diversify sources and supply routes such as nabucco and itgi, complementary rather than contradictory projects that can play a catalytic role in the security of supply of the union.
madam president, since several of us in this chamber have referred to nabucco as a very important project for the energy security of europe, i would ask the commissioner to tell us, if he can, where this project is at and what progress has been made on the nabucco issue.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a position on the proposal for a directive. the debate which began with gas and storage has been broadened to include energy policy in general, far beyond gas. of course we're dependent on gas. but this is not just true of gas, it is also true of other energy sources, oil in equal measure, coal from the world market, nuclear raw materials. and even in renewables, the dependence on storage countries like switzerland and norway is increasing. europe is dependent. this is why the issue of energy efficiency - how to use our energy more efficiently and not waste it - will become increasingly important. we want to talk to you in detail about the implications over the next few months. the energy community has been approached. i believe that the european union must become a more functioning and solidary energy community. the approach of mr delors is a guiding principle. i would, however, advise us to use the new instruments in place in the next few years, in particular to use article 194 aggressively as a basis of competence and other ways of achieving the internal market. we have not yet had a real internal market for electricity and gas. the member states - some more, some less - are in the end in sunday speeches for the internal market and monday to saturday they do nothing about it, but make national industrial policy. so you should use the instruments. we will then be able to speak with credibility to the member states and the public about the further development of the legal bases in four or five years' time. energy community: i consider switzerland, norway, serbia, croatia the countries of the former yugoslavia in general , but also countries such as morocco, the maghreb, the middle east or georgia, moldova, ukraine as close partners in an energy community turkey in particular. a forecast of the energy and gas markets was requested and requested. we want to present them with the roadmap 2050 with various alternatives. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are still trying to make a proposal that will show the gas pillar in the next few decades. we currently have over 400 billion cubic meters of gas consumption. will we go to 500 billion in 2030, 2040? 600 billion or 300 billion? the question is an eminently important one if you want to predict infrastructure and dependency. the issue of dependence: we must realize that we still have significant natural gas reserves, but these will be exhausted in 15, 20 years. the netherlands is a typical case. we are dependent on russia first and foremost. that's right, i did. they currently account for 25% of the european gas market. a quarter - that's a lot, but it's still a manageable size - comes from russian deposits. but it 's clear , of course . in latvia, lithuania, bulgaria, poland and romania, the figure is well over 50%, up to 100%, and in portugal it is zero. there's an east-west divide according to the proximity and distance to the places of origin, namely in siberia. we have strong supplies from algeria, which i must mention, from norway, which i can mention, and we want to bring the issue of lng from the middle east qatar by ship and terminals into the spotlight as well. dependence on russia: i see russia as a partner country in all problems. we have the ten-year anniversary of the russian-european energy dialogue in november. it's a two-way street. why would you do that? for example, if the russians are financing more than 50% of the nord stream pipeline, putting more than four billion euros into it, then they want gas to flow too. otherwise, the investment would not be worthwhile for them. in addition, the russians want to sell us gas so that they can get european money to pay for vehicles, plants, machinery, high tech, know-how for the construction of the russian economy. i believe that if we act together, we are mutually dependent and not vulnerable to blackmail. the second is the issue of diversification and reducing dependence. the first is that we want to see existing lines renewed so that we do not become more dependent on technology. the other is the new rooms. i think we should be dependent on the russians for russian gas. the russians should be our partners in the sale and trade of their gas, but not in the third gas. there's the caspian space. the largest gas reserves are in the caspian region. and as much as i connect gas from russia to our partner russia, i don't see that gas from the caspian region comes to us via russia. the russians should become traders of their own gas and not traders of third party gas for us. the gas from algeria does not flow to us via russia. nor does the gas from norway come to us via russia. the european union's ambition must therefore be to maintain a direct link - the shortest possible - to the caspian region, without detours and thus without unnecessary dependence on the russian trading desk. but this requires solidarity. i therefore ask all the member states - from austria to hungary, from romania to bulgaria to poland - whether we are prepared to work together in the southern corridor to find a solution that is in the european interest. or are we divisive? that's the crucial point. if we agree and do not accept offers which are less in the european interest, we will be able to break through into the caspian area. we are working very hard on nabucco, we have working meetings every week, we have a summit meeting with the turkmen and the aseris on october 1st. we can't make the decision ourselves. the decision is up to the investors. but we can do everything to ensure that the decision between the member states and the neighbouring countries of turkey, azerbaijan, georgia and others is moderated by us. i still think nabucco is on the right track. and then you say, "we need to invest more". that may be. i promise you: every euro that is allocated by parliament and the member states in the european budget for infrastructure to co-finance it where it cannot do it alone will be implemented by us. you will make that decision in the foreseeable future with the financial period. we need to talk about priorities. if you want to spend more money on infrastructure, you either have to get more money in - i believe less - or you have to spend less money in other areas. i am also looking forward to this process between the different areas of work in parliament. thank you again for your support. you brought the subject up. we have convinced the member states together. i 'm happy to tell you all: we will implement the regulation rapidly and in the report which is due in four years' time we will analyse strengths and weaknesses and also draw conclusions where it makes sense to develop the regulation further and extend its content. (applause from the centre)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, tuesday 21 september, at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on the eu-china summit on 6 october 2010.
i would like to point out that, according to a message from the council, the commissioner, mr de gucht, will speak on behalf of mrs ashton and, under the agreement with the european parliament, mrs ashton is representing both the european commission and the council. this clarification is in response to the comments of my colleagues on the absence of the council.
member of the commission. − madam president, thank you for making it clear that today i am, in fact, wearing two hats (by the way, i have at least two hats – one for the winter in dark brown velvet and one for the summer, a panama). you said, madam president, that this was an agreement with parliament. it is, in fact, the result of the lisbon treaty. it is important, in order to avoid misunderstandings when i take the floor in such a debate, if you would indicate ‘hr/vp’ instead of ‘the commission’. that would make it clear to all members what my specific capacity – or that of anybody else – is in this kind of debate. having said that, this was in fact a very rich debate. i will try in the remaining minutes before you start voting to answer some of the questions. let me start with climate change, which mr bütikofer mentioned. in fact it is very important that we come to a common understanding with china with respect to climate change. this is on the agenda of the summit due to take place on 6 october. this leads me to a somewhat more general remark with respect to the strategic partnership. many members of parliament have asked what this strategic partnership really means. for me it means that china – being one of the most important economies in the world, the biggest country in the world, a superpower, a member of the security council of the united nations, an economic powerhouse, and also an increasingly important military power – together with the european union, the united states and others, has a shared responsibility for world affairs. that is what i think it should really mean. it is not only about politics, the economy, climate change or raw materials, but rather it is about the shared responsibility to conduct world affairs. we are open to doing that together with them. references were also made to several existing problems in the economic sector. for example, mr belder drew attention to the european chamber of commerce which has produced – not for the first time, by the way: they do this annually – a report on trade irritants. there is also a shorter version than the full 627-page one, which gives an executive summary. we have many contacts with them. when i visited china recently we had an in-depth discussion with them. we also attended a meeting with the chinese leadership where european business people were in a position to put questions to the chinese leadership. so we are keeping ourselves very well informed on what is happening in that respect. there are problems, notably compulsory certification, the problem of indigenous innovation and the very vast problem of raw materials, which concerns not only the extractive industry, but also cotton, paper and so on. this is a vast subject and we should continue to follow this very closely. it will be one of the main subjects at the high level economic dialogue that we will be having with china in november. some specific questions were put with respect to reciprocity, amongst others by mrs de sarnez. we are preparing a communication on trade for the end of october. there we will propose a new instrument, similar to the trade defence instruments, whereby it would be possible, on the basis of a report, to intervene in such a way that – and this is not specifically aimed at china, but at everybody – if a country closed its government procurement markets to our products and to our entrepreneurs, we could retaliate by doing exactly the same with our markets and close them to them. i am a great supporter of openness, but openness also means that there should be reciprocity. the european commission will take action in that respect – i repeat, not specifically aimed at china, but china certainly comes into that orbit. dumping was also mentioned. we see no sharp rise in dumping activities and in anti-dumping procedures, but we are following this very closely. if need be we take the necessary measures. for example, last week we took a measure with respect to aluminium wheels, and we continue to monitor this very closely. mr brok asked a question about market economy status. that is a very interesting topic indeed. one of the questions we should be asking ourselves is whether we should change our approach to the market economy status. market economy status is in fact a technical assessment based on the fulfilment of five criteria. market economy status has always been one of china’s key demands to us and there has been some idea of using market economy status as a bargaining chip to push for the eu’s offensive interests. however, china has never indicated what it would be willing to give us as a counterpayment for market economy status. it is clear that it would not be in our interest to give it for free. we have increasing problems emerging in china in areas of market access, investment opportunities for our companies, government procurement and access to raw materials. we would need to see improvement in these areas if we were ever to change our approach to market economy status. let me add that, as a result of their entry into the wto as from 2016, they will automatically have market economy status. there was also a question on the partnership and cooperation agreement, from mr rivellini, amongst others. the talks continue. on the trade front, we were in beijing last week. on the political front, we have narrowed issues down to human rights, taiwan and migration. this is, by the way, an ongoing process and, like the honourable member, i would welcome a timely conclusion. let me finish by saying a word on human rights, an issue raised by many members of this parliament. human rights issues are raised during our regular political contacts and, in particular, during our human rights dialogue with the chinese authorities, the last session of which was held in madrid on 29 june. in nanjing at the 12th eu-china summit, for instance, they were raised both during the discussions and in the press conference. of course, human rights and the rule of law will be debated at the brussels summit as well. the eu recognises that china has made progress on economic and social rights. we value the achievements of the chinese leadership in improving the economic situation of millions of citizens, as illustrated by the way china dealt with the economic downturn. however, this is not matched by similar progress on civil and political rights. in the light of china’s global role and its obligations under the universal declaration of human rights, there is a strong international expectation that china should live up to internationally recognised standards in all fields of human rights. we urge china to ratify the international covenant on civil and political rights, which would be the most tangible sign of china’s commitment to respecting human rights. lastly, on tibet, the eu respects the sovereignty and integrity of china, including tibet, but human rights are universal and the situation in tibet is a legitimate concern of the international community. we are concerned that a large number of tibetan intellectuals and writers are currently facing criminal charges. we urge china to allow the tibetan people fully to exercise their basic political, religious, economic, social and cultural rights, in line with the chinese constitution and the chinese legal provisions on local autonomy.
the debate is closed. (the sitting was suspended for a few minutes.) )
in writing. the internet has become the most common form of distance selling. as the commission's figures in my question (e 4964/210) show, over one third of eu consumers (37%) used the internet last year to buy or order goods and services for private use. this represents an increase of 5 percentage points compared to 2008 and 10 percentage points compared to 2006. however, consumers still lack confidence in the crossborder market and heterogeneous national provisions discourage businesses from investing in crossborder trade. this is why the differences in the rates of use of distance selling in the member states are significant. however, the growth of this form of trade is critical in the current economic downturn. the report aims to tackle the fragmentation of the online internal market through proposals such as the introduction of uniform regulations and practices that will allow distance sellers to move beyond their national borders. in times of stagnation of traditional trade, new technologies and the opportunities they offer can prove valuable in developing new and alternative trade initiatives and that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the prevention of natural and man-made disasters in the eu today in the european parliament. this is a very important initiative which will greatly improve the prevention of phenomena such as forest fires, floods, extreme weather events, technological and industrial accidents. the main objective is to create the appropriate financial framework for disaster prevention, which will be integrated into the financial perspective for the period 2014-2020, with a particular focus on supporting the most isolated and sparsely populated regions. the main aim is to create a balanced agricultural policy by creating a european public agricultural insurance system, with the aim of avoiding the problems created by the multitude of different insurance systems existing in the eu. at the same time, it is necessary to provide farmers in all member states with a minimum level of compensation to enable them to make good the damage they suffer in the event of such disasters.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. mr president, i should also like to thank the rapporteur, mrs mcavan, for her very well-worked draft report and my colleague in the green group, mrs rivasi, for her analytical work. our concern from the outset was that the present plan underlies a tendency to rush medicines onto the market without thorough clinical trials and with concise authorisation procedures, on the grounds that there will be a strengthened system of pharmacovigilance, risk analysis and reporting of adverse drug reactions. we were opposed to this from the start and, in line with the demands of civil society, we called for stricter authorisation procedures before a medicine is put on the market, at the same time as providing the results of comparative clinical trials and demonstrating its added therapeutic value. i believe that the compromise text was an attempt to tackle this issue by strengthening the scientific committee on pharmacovigilance of the european medicines agency and by strengthening the procedure for referrals from citizens. the second point i would like to make is the question of the environmental impact and risks of pharmaceutical products, on which we have not been able to reach a compromise. the commission should, through pharmacovigilance, establish the obligation to monitor and report adverse environmental effects and to compare these data with the test results submitted by companies during the approval and authorisation process for new medicines. unfortunately, we have only managed to get a call in the compromise text for the member states to consider the next stage in monitoring environmental impacts and for the commission to produce a report analysing the scale of the problem and whether there is a need to amend existing legislation.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the current critical economic climate, the current multiannual financial framework has repeatedly proven inadequate in terms of funding many important policy priorities. the revision of the budgetary framework and greater flexibility are essential for the future of the union if we really want to make the eu a guarantor for its citizens at a time when almost 25 million of them are unemployed. the european commission and the council have both been characteristically slow to take up their responsibilities. we are nearing the end of 2010 and parliament is still waiting for the other two institutions to fulfil the commitment they should have fulfilled last year. the economic and social crisis is affecting all of europe. the answer must therefore be european, through a community budget with all the necessary resources.
mr president, commissioner, in your reply you referred to the separation of transport systems. i would ask you, if you can, to confirm that greece, like all the member states of the european union, is free, in the spirit and the letter of directive 72/2009, to choose one of the three equivalent models for the separation of the transport system and that it is not for the commission to indicate to the member states which of the three models they will decide to adopt.
commissioner, the ppp is a profitable and relatively healthy business despite the significant drop in its profits this year, a drop mainly due to the economic crisis and reduced consumption. the question is specific: before proceeding with these proposals, has the commission carried out studies on the consequences of such a proposal for the position of the company on the energy market and its impact on employment and profitability?
member of the commission. − the first is that we adopt the highest standards that are technically feasible worldwide, either through the member states or at european level. i can say that the uk has high standards and a high level of expertise. the same applies to our partner country norway. in the communication we propose to the member states that the highest standards for authorisation, for safety, for emergency plans, for staff training and retraining be universally recognised as binding in europe. secondly, we will bring the subject up in our external energy contacts. we have already done this with libya and will do so if necessary. the whole thing can also be incorporated into other dialogues on the black sea and the baltic sea with partner countries such as russia . thirdly, we want to have an impact on the european players. let us assume that a company like shell or total or bp has standards that it imposes on itself and that we make mandatory for deep drilling in the territory of the european union, then i believe that the same standards that are applied in the north sea, and that are both technically and cost-effectively feasible there, are also reasonable in libya. in other words, standard dumping is not something that is typical of a european company operating on a global scale. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
member of the commission. − in april of this year, the commission adopted a communication on simplifying the implementation of the research framework programmes, proposing a whole set of measures including gradual improvements but also profound changes requiring a revision of the legal basis of eu research and a rebalancing between trust and control and between risk taking and risk avoidance. one of the options the commission has put forward for further discussion with the other institutions and stakeholders relates to the move towards a results-based approach using lump sums for whole projects. this approach would remove the obligation to produce detailed cost statements by introducing lump sums for entire projects and linking the payments exclusively to the reporting on scientific technical progress. however, the commission is aware that such an approach has potential drawbacks, for example length of negotiation procedures, and it is perceived differently by different stakeholders. the commission therefore suggests studying all implementation details and potential impacts thoroughly before making concrete legislative proposals. the average time to grant in the seventh framework programme, fp7, is in the order of 340 days, about one month shorter than in the sixth framework program, fp6. while the commission acknowledges that there is room for further acceleration of the relevant processes, benchmarking with national funders shows that for projects of comparable complexity, a time to grant in the order of one year is certainly not unusual. within the endeavour of creating a european research area, the administrative harmonisation between national and european research funding systems is a long-term objective which is shared by the commission. era-nets in fp6 and fp7 are contributing to this goal and the joint programming initiatives will bring more progress. as a further step, a stakeholder’s platform for common principles for external funding in the era was established recently. high risk, high gain projects are in particular expected in the ideas specific programme, which is implemented by the european research council. preliminary analyses show that the selection process designed by the european research council is successful in challenging the funding to these high risk, high gain projects. the marie curie actions are a key instrument to reverse the persistent trend towards a brain drain of researchers. since 1994, marie curie actions have allowed the creation of about 50 000 new research positions in europe at all career stages and with attractive salaries. with a total budget of eur 4.7 billion in fp7, marie curie actions will equip about 50 000 researchers, including 10 000 phd candidates, with innovative skills that will enhance their career prospects in both the public and private sector and will prepare them for the jobs of the future. finally, the marie curie reintegration grants have been restructured and simplified into a single career integration grant action which specifically addresses the issue of the brain drain.
mr president, i thank the commissioner for her reply. the question i put was intended to draw attention to the fact that europe, despite its ambitious and high-level plans, is still lagging behind the lisbon objectives as they were set from the beginning, with the result that this year we have the countries of asia and the pacific with a 30% share of the librometric market, the americas with 28% and europe further behind. perhaps the high quality mr oettinger has asked for for the dips should also be applied to the survey.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the members who have asked questions. in fact, one of them – the last one – will come up two questions hence. so perhaps, if the member will allow me, i will respond to it at that stage. it is important to emphasise the political point that we do need an interinstitutional agreement with regard to the operation of the eu research programmes. that is why we are working very closely with the two committees in parliament concerned – the committee on industry, research and energy and the budgetary control committee – and also together with the court of auditors to put in place a common policy concerning these very important matters. the rules that will govern the workings of our eu research programmes have to be clearly defined and, very importantly, have to be consistent. applicants to the research programmes – whether they are third-level educational institutions, research centres or private sector companies – must know exactly how our eu research-funded initiatives are going to operate in a very practical sense for them. that is why we have a policy in the commission of simplification and communication, which is now under negotiation and discussion – very strongly – because we realise that we need to simplify even more the policies that we have in this area. simplifying those programmes is a key political priority for us – for me and for the commission as a whole – and we need to work in a very clear, determined manner and in partnership with parliament to be able to achieve that further simplification. on the iter question, this is an issue that has plagued us in a way – and not just this commission but the previous one as well. it is an issue that needs a comprehensive response. a proposal has been made by the commission. that proposal is under discussion, and i am very much aware of the feeling in parliament regarding where the financing comes from in relation to iter, but it is a project that is ground-breaking and can bring incredible benefits – not just to europe but to the world as a whole – if it is successful. it is also a project that does not involve just the eu, as you know, but one in which we have international partners. so we are working very carefully, strongly and coherently with our international partners to be able to move this project forward. i have no doubt that we will be able to do that with your cooperation and your support.
member of the commission. − the europe 2020 strategy is designed to deliver smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. the european research council (erc) has a part to play in delivering all three. most obviously, smart growth means developing an economy based on knowledge and innovation. this requires us to strengthen every link in the innovation chain, from blue sky research to commercialisation. the key to europe’s future prosperity rests on the quality of its ideas and the ability to turn them into products, processes and services that people from all over the world will want to buy. in order to achieve the creation of an innovation union, the first condition to be fulfilled is reinforcing our knowledge base and promoting excellence, and this is precisely what the erc is already doing. in a remarkably short time, the erc has gained world-wide recognition as a world class research funding agency. this was acknowledged in the independent review carried out in july 2009 by a panel of six eminent experts, and although the first projects did not begin until the second half of 2008, many are already showing highly promising and exploitable results. for example, researchers at imperial college in london published groundbreaking results on the quality of bone-like materials grown in laboratories that can be implanted with real bones to help repair them. they have created a start-up company which is developing bioactive materials that can be used instead of bone grafts to treat bone diseases and difficult fractures. a research team at frankfurt university published important results showing how to improve blood circulation by blocking certain genetic fragments. this has huge potential for new therapy for heart attacks, and the researchers have applied for a patent on their method. so projects that are designed to answer fundamental research questions generate the radically new ideas that will drive new innovation and are also necessary to tackle society’s grand challenges. last but not least, the erc has also been successful in serving as a benchmark for the competitiveness of national innovation systems. it has been instrumental in catalysing reforms of national funding systems in a number of countries such as france, poland, portugal and sweden. by establishing world-class benchmarks of excellence in its peer review and in the research it funds, the erc will raise the status, visibility and attractiveness of european frontier research.
commissioner, thank you very much for your reply. research is directly linked to innovation and innovation is a prerequisite for development. in the light of what you've told us, i'd like to ask you this: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have more data, especially for the countries of the european south, in terms of new good ideas, in terms of absorption of community funds towards research targeting? given that these countries have very low indicators, are we emphasizing growth? i am referring, of course, to greece, spain and other countries in the south of europe.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr president, first of all i would like to thank the commissioner for his presentation. the whole of the mountain and island regions is the area in which coordination is most important, both in terms of policy planning and programme implementation. these are areas where different policies, such as rural, regional, transport, environmental, fisheries, employment, etc., are called upon to solve a combination of multifaceted problems. the european union has developed a wide range of actions for these regions under its various policies. what is lacking in my view is coordination. for a country like greece, for example, where most of the territory is mountainous and its inhabitable islands exceed 200, it is easy to see that strengthening social and economic cohesion cannot be achieved without coordination at all levels. we have to be able to do that. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. an integrated approach to the design and implementation of policies for the mountain and island regions of the european union should not be the desired but the self-evident one.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one. european policy towards these regions must focus on enhancing their positive characteristics and, at the same time, attenuating their negative ones, so that european citizens do not feel alienated from their fellow citizens anywhere in the european union and that they enjoy as equal opportunities for prosperity as possible in every region of europe. the gross domestic product of a region does not give a true picture of this diversity. there are apparently rich islands and mountainous regions economically trapped in underdeveloped service sectors with no productive base and therefore in need of investment. in addition, the average conditions, which apply to islands unequally in terms of development, are in fact unfair to some of them. other important factors, such as the labour market or the accessibility of a region, the increased cost of travel and transport, as well as the necessary infrastructure and networks, are elements that must be taken into account in a more holistic approach to the regions, both in terms of regional policy and in terms of the starting point for broadening the criteria in general.
member of the commission. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to join in this thanks, but also in the thanks to the honourable members. i have counted 47 words, which is a testament not only to the vitality of this parliament but also to the importance of the subject. i was particularly pleased to see that of these 47 statements, only one was actually negative with regard to the usefulness of cohesion policy. this should also encourage us to encourage each other that this is a very important policy area and ultimately the one that is most likely to reach the people of europe and ultimately make europe visible, also and especially in the areas that have been the subject of our deliberations and debates today, and i would like to point out that this has not been discussed today at all that we already have the possibility, in the new period, to create a balance within regions through a modulated co-financing system, and in the sense of what the rapporteur zellernet or others have said, have created the possibility that very well, in the sense of the subsidiarity principle, specific needs can be responded to on the spot against the background of the respective responsible persons or that there are very different possibilities in the field of competition policy and that these possibilities should be exploited in the field of state aid, for example, in the interest of the people. there have been many speeches on the question of indicators, which we often encounter in the discussion of regional policy. i am with those who think - as does my colleague, mr deutsch - that we still need to use the gross national product as the central indicator. but i also understand and share the need and desire that there are complementary indicators. there are already various projects in the field of espon, for example, and i mention the euro-iceland project, which aims to define complementary, additional indicators, but which are intended primarily and specifically to help us to shape our policy in these regions better together with the primary responsible party. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would also like to thank those speakers who have pointed out the potential that is latent in the regions and what can still be done, for example in the field of research and development. we have some regions with exceptional locations where very special research activities are taking place, if i think of the canary islands with their observatories, where research is being carried out which is only possible there because of the geographical, topographical and climatic conditions. these are things that need to be used more than ever, and that includes the renewable energy sector. i am also with those who have quite deliberately referred to the area of internet access. this is indeed something that we must pay particular attention to in the future, where we must definitely acknowledge that there is still considerable potential here. i thank you again for all the contributions to the debate. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a good one, but it is not enough to say that it is a good one. we must therefore pursue a policy which takes account of these needs, and we are doing so. we are therefore going to have to make a policy that is geared to the people, to their needs, and hopefully to reach them. this is a work that never ends, that always needs a new impetus. in this respect, today's debate and above all this report, this resolution, have again made a significant contribution. i can only assure you that it is not only a task and an obligation for us in the commission, but also a pleasure to be working intensively on these matters. (applause from the centre)
i have received six motions for resolutions with a view to winding up this debate, pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. i 'm not . the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 22 september, at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the integration of aviation activities into the greenhouse gas emission trading system within the community by peter liese and mathieu grosch, on behalf of the ppe group, saïd el khadraoui, kathleen van brempt and matthias groote, on behalf of the s&d group, chris davies and holger krahmer, on behalf of the alde group, martin callanan, on behalf of the ecr group, hassi satu, on behalf of the verts/ale group (o-0712/2010 - b7-0463/2010)
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a position on the proposal for a directive. the debate showed that parliament supports a clear eu position during the icao negotiations. i appreciate that, but i honestly didn't expect anything else. i will pass on the support and also various aspects raised in the debate to mrs hedegaard and to mr kallas, whose services will be representing the commission at the icao assembly. the question raised, to the extent that i can answer it spontaneously, is simply this: the commission naturally applies eu legislation adopted by parliament and the council. eu legislation covers all operators without discrimination on grounds of nationality, i.e. operators from third countries, including the us, can apply for free certificates. the directive adopted by parliament and the council provides for flight bans as a last resort if operators do not comply with the legislation. in this case, the commission would of course help the member states to enforce these bans accordingly. we are also confident that we have examined the directive very carefully in legal terms and that the european court of justice will uphold our legislation accordingly. let me say this once more in the end: the commission will not accept an outcome that undermines eu legislation to include aviation in eu emissions trading, which this parliament supported in 2008 with an overwhelming majority of 640 votes. that is our mission, and we will carry it out.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the statement by the commission on the use of community trade marks in the internal market.
member of the commission. - madam president, as mrs wikström said, it is very late to discuss this subject, but i think, like all those who have spoken, that it is an important subject. president malcolm harbour recalled how, for companies, this european brand was a proof of identity, a protection, and also a protection of innovation. i therefore think that, as mr kelly has just said, we must go further, on other forms of protection, and that is why, mr kelly, we will, with the belgian presidency, act with determination to finally bring the european patent project to fruition. and so i say to president harbour, for all the reasons he has indicated with others, that the commission will not allow one of these important elements of the internal market to be unraveled. and, as you also said, mr president, if we let this sorting out take place on the basis of these somewhat protectionist temptations in one country or another, it would be small and mediumsized enterprises that would be the first victims. we are therefore determined to put an end to these temptations, for all the reasons you have mentioned. and i would like to thank mrs handzlik and her group for their vigilance and for expressing that vigilance by asking this question. mrs wikström, like mr tarabella, stressed the importance of this community trade mark for businesses, its coherence with the single market. i want to confirm that, as mr tarabella wishes, we are in this objective of the revision under way to modernise the current system. following the lego judgment to which you referred, mr tarabella, it is clear that the community trade mark regulation needs to be updated. we are on this road, with the concern that you yourself have expressed, to take into account in this revision, in this adaptation, the consequences of the situation of modern means of technology, and of the internet of course. we will update and revise these regulations with this in mind. i would also like to thank mrs roithová for mentioning, as i did, competition, which would be even more acute if we were to go back to a fragmentation of brands. we must be resilient, we must be able to suppress or prevent products from entering, and for this reason the action programme against counterfeiting and piracy which i shall present in a few weeks' time will include the concern to train the staff of the various member states at the external borders and to strengthen the technical means to combat counterfeiting and piracy. i also think that bilateral work is needed, particularly with the countries from which these counterfeit products come, and therefore in the action plan i am going to propose to you there will be more positive measures to cooperate with certain third countries and help them to have their own trademark policy and their own anti-counterfeiting policy. finally, mrs handzlik asked me an important question: what happens if the national courts confirm the position of their national trade mark offices? we're not at that point as i speak. first of all, we must wait, not prejudge the outcome of the decisions of the national courts and, as i have said, i am confident that these courts will correct the situation themselves. the possibility of an infringement procedure, which has just been mentioned, will be considered, but only in the light of the outcome of the appeals which have been lodged. these are the answers, madam president, to this important problem, which is one of the key elements of the internal market, and i wanted to say this at a time when we are preparing, together with you and the council, to give a boost to the internal market, to strengthen it, to give it a more concrete approach for the benefit of small and mediumsized enterprises and citizens. it is not at that point that we will accept this unbundling of the community trade mark.
the debate is closed.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, as far as the roma issue is concerned, i do not think the problem is the expulsion of roma from france. the problem is the inhumane conditions in which roma live in most european countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. deportation is one aspect of the problem. the conditions in which the roma live are the problem. the council's conclusions are: you have put europe's external relations in the context of mutual interests. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so in the run-up to the euro-china summit, do you intend to normalize the obstacles that europe is placing in its relations with china, and in particular human rights and relations with iran?
in writing. i voted in favour of paragraph 3 (amendment 1 by the green group) because i believe that gdp should not be the only criterion but rather one of the main criteria for determining eligibility for regional policy aid. i voted against the first part of paragraph 4 and in favour of the second part because i think that a legal and financial framework is necessary for regional policy in mountainous, island and sparsely populated regions.
the next item is the statement on the shortcomings in the protection of human rights and justice in the democratic republic of congo; the vice-president of the commission/high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, mrs ashton, is responsible for this matter. since she will not be able to be present at the sitting today, mr chastel will speak on her behalf.
on behalf of the efd group. i would like to congratulate mr leinen and the commissioner on the information they have given us. i would also like to express my dissatisfaction that the committee on industry, research and energy, which deals with industry and research, is not present in this resolution. and i would say that because of that absence, we have paragraphs that are unrealistic or create huge problems in the mining industries. we said we'd control them, but not destroy them. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new directive on the protection of workers from the risks arising from exposure to carcinogens. i would also point out a major omission in the text: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and here, we could work with the americans and advance the research and technology that will help us deal with these kinds of crises.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i disagree with the voices that have been heard in this chamber about corporate protectionism. right now china is in a race to the bottom, taking action, making the necessary adjustments, making five-year plans on exactly how to change its industry, shutting down polluting industries, and that's because it's competing with us for a huge market, the $13 billion clean energy market. it is a challenge to which we must respond not with protectionism but with bold measures. commissioner, yes, to go ahead with the moratorium, which will not be temporary but permanent, and will be a new move towards clean energy. the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment, which is to be adopted by the council on the basis of the recommendation of the european parliament.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to thank you for your dedicated, knowledgeable and very numerous participation in the conclusions and the measures to be taken. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that is what i am saying. i share many of the suggestions and i agree with them. for example, we have been in intensive talks with bp to get - and the chances are good - not only the highest safety standards, better than ever, accepted in european waters, but also to export these standards, if i may say so. bp will be prepared to guarantee the same standard as in the north sea for such drilling and rigs off the coast of libya, although it may not be subject to and required to obtain a permit under libyan law. we will then have to discuss the question of where we are proposing standards which are to be observed in national law and where we want to create european law. this is already more limited in the case of oil tankers than in the case of mobile transport, but it is not yet available for stationary platforms. there were some calls: "out of oil" "to renewable energy!" we support them too. but let 's not kid ourselves: for at least the next 20 or 30 years, our european economy and society will still require large quantities of oil for transport. it is unlikely that in the next 20 or 30 years, the aircraft you fly from brussels to your home country - to madrid, lisbon, sofia, riga or munich - will run out of oil. we all need oil as members of a mobile air transport society if europe is to remain viable. the same applies to inland buses, coaches and coaches; the same is true of transport by heavy goods vehicles, and it will be true for a long time for private transport, car transport, despite the development of electrically powered cars. we have just over 200 million registered cars in the countries of the european union today. if the density of cars in france and germany is also reached in poland and the new member states, in 15 years there will be 300 million cars. the vast majority of these will be energy-efficient, but still run on oil. this means that 'going from oil to renewable energy' is a long-term policy, but in the next 10-30 years, oil demand in europe will not decrease, but rather increase slightly, with all the efficiency along the catching-up vehicle density demand. this is especially true of the world. that is why we need the highest possible level of security: for the necessary extraction of oil, for our economy and society, as i have said. we're coming to you again, and i'm counting on your support. i also thank the member states, who have been very constructive on this subject. i would ask you, however, to work with the same intensity as you are doing here today, also towards your national governments, so that the willingness to legislate accordingly for higher standards is also advanced in the council by unanimity or by a clear majority. i am not yet sure that every member state is ready to adopt european standards, either by you or by the council on a proposal from the commission.
president of the council. - madam president, i too would like to thank you for this interesting debate. the interventions, moreover, were sometimes very contrasting. i have heard, within the same political group, sometimes diametrically opposed views. all of this is very instructive. three points for you. the first is: do we need more legislation to improve the safety of the offshore industry? as i said in my speech, the assessment to date is that the measures in place are already of a high standard. the commission - which, i remind you, has the monopoly on initiative - is finalising its assessment, but it is already noting that a safer industry requires first of all better control, better implementation of the existing regulatory framework. so let us see what she has to say on this matter. in addition, as i have also said today, the commission is examining the union's disaster response capacity in order to improve the safety of the offshore industry, which is an important element in this context. until legislative proposals are made, contrary to what some people have said today, this matter has not, of course, disappeared from the council's agenda. the presidency had requested that the first assessments be made, communicated and discussed at the informal meetings of the energy ministers on 6 and 7 september. secondly, is a moratorium justified? of course, it is difficult to answer this question directly. we believe that the first step in any legislation is to implement it effectively. we also note that the industry does not seem to be waiting for this future regulatory framework to be put in place. it also revises a number of safety provisions at the preventive and operational stages. finally, it must be understood that the material situation in europe is quite different, since most drilling in the gulf of mexico takes place at a depth of 1 500 metres, which obviously makes it difficult to stop in the event of a disaster such as the one we have experienced. in europe, most drilling takes place at depths of less than 200 metres, which still leaves a wide margin for intervention, at least in a more easily accessible way. finally, madam president - the commissioner has just spoken about this - will this accident accelerate european energy policy and renewable energy? this policy is already ambitious, but we will continue to raise this level of ambition. and this policy is of course helping to reduce our dependence on oil and, in general, to move towards a low-carbon society. but, as the commissioner has just said, we are not going to part with oil in this next decade with a magic wand. i have no doubt that the 2011-2020 energy strategy, which is due to be adopted early next year, will accelerate this transition to an oil-free economy.
i have received a motion for a resolution (see minutes) tabled to wind up this debate pursuant to rule 115 (5) on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 7 october 2010. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the joint debate on - oral question to the council on the main objectives for the conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity in nagoya, 18-29 october 2010 by jo leinen on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-0111/2010 - b7-0467/2010) - oral question to the commission on the main objectives for the conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity in nagoya, 18-29 october 2010 by jo leinen on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-0112/2010 - b7-0468/2010) on the question of the contribution of the council of the european union to sustainable development and the development of services in the field of biodiversity and ecosystems (o-064/2010-07-04) - oral question to the commission on the main objectives for the conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity in nagoya, 18-29 october 2010 by michèle striffler on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-0410/2010-07-06)
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. but at the moment, as we are talking, the negotiations are in danger of collapsing completely, and now we are responsible, the european union is responsible. i would therefore like to ask the council to change its position. we should move forward, unblock the negotiations on the abs protocol, on access and benefit-sharing of genetic information. indeed, if we do not do this, not only do we maintain a situation which is conducive to bio-piracy and is a crime at the moment against local communities and genetic resources, but we will completely lose another opportunity for the environment, the negotiations will collapse, and we will have a second copenhagen. i therefore urge the council to give this matter serious consideration. we must change our attitude before it is the european union, for the first time, that leads to the collapse of environmental negotiations.
the abolition of the visa requirement for citizens of all the countries of the western balkans is a practical demonstration of the european perspective of their peoples. it is very important that both albania and bosnia and herzegovina now fulfil the conditions, conditions and indicators required for visa waiver. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in particular, i would remind you that in 2009 the land borders of greece with albania and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia accounted for the largest share, i.e. 34% of the detections, of the entire european union. secondly, we must not ignore the concerns about the possible increase in the number of economic migrants from these countries to the rest of the european union. for one more reason: the experience of the increase in asylum applications from citizens from the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, serbia and montenegro here in brussels about a year ago is still fresh. the belgian government then had to take special measures, as you will recall, and this was immediately after the visa requirement was lifted. finally, the questions raised by certain member states need to be answered and here the presidency must keep its promise and organise a meeting of experts to examine those points which are still considered by some members as open. these are outstanding issues which need to be resolved in order for the procedure to proceed smoothly.
madam president, we all know that today's discussion of the agreement reached by the basle committee is another step dictated by the recent crisis. a crisis that has demonstrated in the most dramatic way the shortcomings and weaknesses in the regulation and supervision of the financial system, has deconstructed the hitherto dominant doctrine of market self-regulation and has highlighted the need for stricter rules both on capital adequacy and on the supervision of financial institutions. in this context, the basel committee reached an agreement which includes some basic principles and changes to be made to the capital adequacy rules in order to better shield the banking system. as regards the implementation of this agreement in europe, mr karas' report highlights a number of important aspects which must be taken seriously, such as the specificity of the european market where 80% of lending is based on credit institutions, the need to democratize the basel process, including with the more active involvement of the european parliament, and of course the proposal to include all euro area government bonds in high quality liquid assets, irrespective of their credit rating, in order to limit the impact of credit rating agencies. i would like to reiterate, however, that the new capital adequacy measures represent a minimal revision and that more general reforms are still needed with a longer-term perspective. the commissioner said that europe had already taken an important step by adopting the new european surveillance system. we're changing the landscape and promoting enhanced coordination as a key prevention tool. we must not, however, stay there. we need to move on to the next steps, with the establishment of a supervisory and regulatory framework for entities that until now operate unregulated, such as credit rating agencies or alternative investment firms. on the basis of the proposals you have recently put forward, commissioner, we need to move towards rules for the regulation of transactions which are highly opaque and therefore present increased systemic risk, such as the market in otc derivatives and uncovered sales. finally, commissioner, because you mentioned the g20 summit in seoul, we need to lead the effort to introduce a financial transaction tax, not of course to take revenge or to punish the banks, but to curb speculation and to send a strong message to the citizens of the union who are today paying the price of the crisis, that we are making sure that there is a fairer distribution of the burden.
madam president, i am particularly pleased that commissioner barnier is here today, as i know that the subject i am about to refer to is of particular interest to him. natural disasters have incalculable costs in human lives and economic infrastructure. the european union is committed to the development of a common defence policy and to the promotion of the rule of law. it is therefore imperative that the european union be able to respond effectively to such emergencies. to achieve this, europe must make better use of its potential, but also mobilise european citizens. the long european tradition of volunteering and the principle of solidarity provide a solid basis for achieving this. the time has come, therefore, to set up the european voluntary corps, as provided for in article 214 (5) of the treaty of lisbon. i would also like to remind you that 2011 is the european year of volunteering. a european voluntary service will enhance europe's role and image and win the minds and hearts of europeans and citizens around the world. the european parliament has a duty to take urgent action to create the european voluntary corps.
madam president, the undemocratic resolution adopted by the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe yesterday, 5 october, equates the popular struggles of workers with extremism and, in the name of combating extremism, proposes the restriction and abolition of basic democratic rights such as the right to freedom of expression, the rights of assembly and association, and even the banning of political parties. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in greece and the great workers' and people's struggles that have been waged in the past against the barbaric, anti-people policy of the european union, the government in our country and the other member states of the european union. the class struggle does not stop with reactionary resolutions and laws. it is the driving force of history, the inevitable product of the system, the birth of barbarism, of the exploitation of man by man. the struggle of the working class, the rebuilding and counterattacking of the working people's movement throughout europe can put these resolutions where they belong: in the dustbin of history. the communist party of greece calls on the working class and the popular strata to condemn the reactionary resolution in practice by intensifying their struggle against the anti-people attack of the capital of the european union, the bourgeois governments, strengthening the effort to build the socio-political alliance of the working class, self-employed people who will demand changes for the benefit of the people.
mr president, the debate on the so-called cohesion policy of the european union does not highlight its essential features, such as: firstly, the fact that no cohesion policy of the european union can eliminate the inequalities in growth which are the result of the capitalist mode of production, which operates solely on the basis of capital gains. secondly, the money that the european union allocates to the regions is not aimed at meeting the needs of the people but is directed to projects necessary for capital. thirdly, that the debate on the reduction of resources serves the interests of the big capitalist groups and fourthly, that the plans of capital for the future cohesion policy serve the acceleration of capitalist restructuring and the anti-people europe 2020 policy, which is what the reform of the state with the kapodistrias and kallikratis project serves in greece. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, i am sure that commissioner hahn does not need to be persuaded that cohesion policy is one of the most successful policies of the eu, the results of which have influenced the lives of millions of citizens, wherever they live in europe. i am sure that commissioner andor does not need to be persuaded about the successful delivery of the social policy aspects of cohesion policy, thanks to the strong synergy of the esf and erdf. nor do the other two commissioners dealing with eu funds in rural development and fisheries need to be persuaded that they are more effective working together with other funds, as they used to be, than on their own, as in the current period. i am among those who expect that in the next period we should have proposals for even stronger synergies between a strong cohesion policy and all the other funds, based on the fact that all of them together can deliver far better results than each one on its own. but for some reason i fail to understand, there are voices inside the commission that are calling for an approach of sectoral instruments, ignoring (in my view) the realities on the ground. to conclude, what we say in our resolution, which i strongly hope and believe will be adopted by a very large majority later today, is supported not only by this house but also by the majority of member states, all 271 regions of europe and thousands of local authorities. in my opinion, if the commission follows the path of sectorisation of eu resources, we will arrive in a unique and conflictual situation where the commission will be on one side and everybody else – parliament, the council and the regions – on the other side. in the coming weeks, the side which believes that future eu policies would be best covered within an integrated approach to planning, implementation and delivery will have to engage in a serious fight with the side which believes that sectorisation of eu resources is the way to go. be sure that the latter will find this group against them simply because it is the wrong way to go for europe.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european social fund is a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction. but today, in the year of the fight against poverty, europe is in recession, we have unemployment, we have business closures, and so this objective, in terms of achieving it, is being called into question. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european social fund is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. but here, commissioners, i would like to say that we see the absurdity and the paradox of your economic policies. in other words, in greece you have imposed, the commission, the imf and the european central bank, a miserable memorandum which cuts public expenditure, cuts wages, cuts incomes and at the same time, when i ask the commission why the absorption of community funds by greece is delayed, the answer is: the inadequate liquidity of public finances, that is the essence of the policy of the memorandum. i would like to ask the commissioner to explain to us how greece will increase absorption capacity. there is no absurdity, no paradox in your economic policies?
the european social fund is a tool, mr president, a key tool for building a better europe, for forging solidarity between peoples and states. but as with any tool, it is very important to see how we use it. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european social fund is a step in the right direction, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to take action in this area. but if we are not careful and this hammer falls on our feet, then we will not be able to walk any further. i am saying this in a general way to make it clear that even if we build the best building, the best infrastructure, if we forget that we are building it for the european citizens, then we have failed. the european construction must be stable so that people can live and develop in it, people who will be engaged in decent work and who will have a real vision of the future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the next item is voting. (for the results and other information on the vote, see minutes)
mrs kheira leila ettayeb, chairman of the committee on education, training, higher education, scientific research and religious affairs of the algerian council of nations, and mr pier antonio panzeri, chairman of the delegation for relations with the maghreb, co-chaired the meeting of the 10th interparliamentary meeting of the european parliament/parliament of algeria. i hope that the meetings you have had in the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, have been fruitful and that they will actively contribute to the rapprochement between the two institutions.
we shall now proceed to the vote. (for the results and other information on the vote, see minutes)
mr gollnisch, i am a very nice and patient man. you do not have the floor. this is not a point of order. if you continue shouting you will be taken out of this room politely.
it may have been because i speak greek, which is not a particularly well-known language, and i speak it fast in order to help everyone here. i believe – i may be wrong – that i first put amendment 1 to the vote by roll-call vote and that i then put to the vote... (objections) ok, i will trust the house. my guess is, if my recollection is correct, that amendment 1 will be rejected and then the original text will be adopted, but i will do it. i will go back to amendment 1 by roll-call vote. the vote is open. (amendment 1 was adopted by roll-call vote)
in writing. i voted in favour of the report so that the european police college is not relieved of its control of its budget for the financial year 2008 because the investigation into the misappropriation of funds has not yet been completed. i also voted in favour because i agree that it is unacceptable that an agency financed by europe should not, after all these years, have a sound and transparent management of its finances. although the new director of the academy has presented an action plan, it is not adequate, nor as detailed as it should be. finally, the non-exemption of the academy for the year 2008 sends a strong message about the obligation to improve the way it operates in order to stop the mismanagement of money.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because i believe in the inalienable right of free movement of all citizens, the right to free movement regardless of nationality. this report is at last a further step towards the abolition of the visa requirement for the citizens of albania and bosnia-herzegovina. unfortunately, however, it cannot be denied that in order to achieve visa liberalisation, states are required to use biometric passports, which i am opposed to as far as, in my view, they violate the principle of protecting citizens' personal data.
in writing. i voted against the report because, while it recognises the problem in principle and supports the need to reform the basel ii rules and strengthen supervision of the financial system and banks, it is hesitant to adopt stricter rules. the report underestimates the negative role played by banks in triggering the crisis due to their excessive growth and speculative nature, especially in recent years. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the financial interests of the member states against fraud is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
in writing. i voted against the report because, while it calls for the european social fund to be re-adapted and strengthened, it puts the fund at the service of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. we all know that the european social fund was set up to reduce the disparities in prosperity and living standards between the member states and regions of the eu, thereby promoting economic and social cohesion. however, today, as the economic crisis is plunging the eu further into recession and unemployment, the closure of businesses and industries, poverty and social exclusion - despite the eu's communication declaring 2010 as the year to combat poverty - this objective is being called into question. it is therefore necessary to proceed immediately with the re-alignment of priorities, of all the european funds and of the esf, for the benefit of the citizens and societies of europe and not to serve the europe 2020 strategy, which is a continuation of the proven failed lisbon strategy. some of the points in the report, such as the adaptation of education systems and vocational education and training (vet) to the needs of enterprises, clearly serve the needs of the market and not those of european citizens.
in writing the european parliament has so far shown its clear support for both the establishment and the speedy start-up of the european external action service. i think that the compromise reached with the council on parliament's rights is a satisfactory solution for all parties. it is useful and necessary to have, in the council's discharge procedure, accountability reports from the heads of delegation and hearings by the relevant parliamentary committee. it is also necessary for the financial control to have the same internal auditor and accountant as the european commission. finally, it is important that member states commit to full eu support in enforcing any budgetary responsibility of temporary staff and accept the creation of separate lines for cfsp expenditure, at least for important missions. we believe that the compromise reached will make a real contribution to a more transparent, more effective and more efficient management of community budget expenditure used by the eeas.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. recent research shows that there is a very significant economic gap between a worker's salary and the pension he is about to receive, which will legally put him in the group of the newly poor, the so-called 'pension gap'. at the european level, workers need to save two billion euros a year to cover this gap in their insurance coverage, to ensure a decent living when they retire. in this context, i would like to draw your attention to this very big problem, which is already facing millions of european pensioners, who are the new group of europe's newly poor.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we all agree that in the current critical economic climate the current multiannual financial framework has repeatedly demonstrated its inadequacy in financing many important political priorities. the negotiations on the 2011 budget are taking place in the midst of an extremely difficult period. on the one hand, several member states are pushing for cuts because of the economic crisis, and on the other, in important budgetary areas such as growth, employment and external relations there are already significant deficits. the economic and social crisis is affecting the whole of europe, and the answer must be a european one, through a community budget with all the necessary means. the socialists have therefore tabled proposals for a more ambitious approach to commitments than the council, particularly in the areas of employment, innovation and research. the commitments are an expression of the level of political ambition of the european union. the commission's budget is a budget to support investment. it cannot be seen as a burden on national budgets but, on the contrary, represents an added value for the member states' budgets. it is an expression of solidarity between member states, particularly in times of crisis, where the budget of the european union can play a decisive role in addressing the economic situation throughout the european union and particularly in the member states experiencing the greatest difficulties.
member of the commission. - mr president, good evening to each and every one of you. i have just arrived, mr president, two minutes from luxembourg, where the council of finance ministers was meeting and unanimously approved the draft regulation on hedge funds and private equity. i say this in front of this house because this project, which remains a project until you have your own deliberation, owes a great deal to the european parliament, to the work of your rapporteur, mr gauzès, and to a great deal of progress which was included in the final vote of the council of ministers, particularly in relation to the supervision package which also owes a great deal to the contribution of the european parliament. we will naturally now work together with parliament to finalise this agreement on the regulation of hedge funds and private equity. this is the first time that this sector will be subject to european regulation, and i would like to thank you in advance for your part in this draft regulation. mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou asks me about the discussions taking place in basle, which are not far removed from the subject of regulation to which i referred. this is a very important subject of banking reform and i would like to welcome parliament's commitment to this, as illustrated by the excellent work of your colleague, mr karas. we talked about it two weeks ago, right here. you will be asked to give your opinion on the crd 4 proposal which we will present in spring 2011 to implement the basel iii agreement in europe. ladies and gentlemen, it is little wonder that we have met, that we are still going through a financial crisis that is not over, without precedent. according to the international monetary fund, bank losses attributed to the crisis amounted to $2.3 trillion at the end of 2010, half of which was for european banks. this crisis, which began in the financial sector, plunged the european economy into a severe recession. european gdp contracted by 5.7%, or €700 billion in the year alone. it's about restoring confidence, stability in the banking sector, and ensuring that credit continues to fuel the real economy, businesses, jobs, growth. the union and the member states have adopted an unprecedented set of emergency measures which were, at that time - not so long ago - financed by the taxpayer. the commission approved state aid worth 4 100 billion, equivalent to 35% of european gdp. combined with fiscal policies designed to pull europe out of recession, these support measures have fuelled government deficits and debts. ladies and gentlemen, members of parliament, citizens, taxpayers, have paid once, will they pay a second time? i don't think so, and i don't want to, because that wouldn't be fair. our policy is to provide for the future, to prevent it, which must always be cheaper than repairing it. the aim is to prevent the crisis and its disastrous effects from recurring a second time, and it is precisely to translate this imperative of foresight and prevention into our prudential policies that we will introduce the basle iii standards in europe. in the same spirit, we want to provide europe with a framework for preventing and resolving banking crises, which will again be based on the reflections of parliament. i am thinking of the work of your colleague elisa ferreira. the g20, in its decision of 2 april 2009, mandated the basel committee to make substantial improvements to the basel ii standards where necessary to strengthen the resilience of banks and improve financial stability. european leaders expressed support for this objective on 19 and 20 march 2009. the basel iii standards were developed within the basel committee by experts from the regulatory and supervisory authorities of the 27 major international banking markets with the very active participation of the commission services, on behalf of all eu member states. the analysis carried out by our commission and the basel committee shows that the new standards will strengthen financial stability, limit procyclicality and lead to significant economic and social benefits for a wide range of stakeholders, due to the expected reduction in the frequency of banking crises and the risks involved. this reform will benefit borrowers, businesses and individuals, but also creditors, governments, small and medium-sized enterprises and citizens in general. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial system is not affected by the crisis. the same applies to cash requirements. the liquidity standards are subject to a period of observation until 2015. you ask me, mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou, whether the new rules will speed up mergers between banks; this is not the aim of the reform, but if some banks fail to comply with these new standards within the timeframe and therefore have to merge with their competitors, or sometimes their partners, this would result in a strengthening of the protection of their depositors and creditors as well as financial stability. i also hear your concern that the new standards will disproportionately affect the smaller banks. the quantitative study carried out by the european committee of banking supervisors on the impact of basel iii on the banking sector showed that small banks, in fact, ms kratsa-tsagaropoulou, would be less affected by the new standards than the top 50 banking groups in the union. this is mainly due to the higher initial capital of smaller banks and their simpler business model. finally, the commission attaches great importance to a level playing field at international level. it seems to me desirable that the g20 should not reopen a major debate at this stage on the set of standards defined in the context of basel iii, as these are the result of long and balanced discussions. on the other hand, the political governance of the g20, the financial stability board, is an asset for europe and to ensure that all will actually implement the basel accords in a timely and very correct manner. that's all i can say to answer your very important question.
mr president, i share your view of the completeness of commissioner barnier's reply. it is not the commission's responsibility to make the necessary adjustments to the existing rules. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial markets are not affected by the crisis. do you think that liquidity will not be directly affected - because the market is already suffering from a lack of liquidity from banks - by the fact that the measures will be implemented gradually? the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets.
mr president, commissioner, about a year ago, in august 2009, the commission set up the flex facility for vulnerable countries, committing eur 500 million to deal with the effects of the global economic crisis in the most vulnerable countries in africa for the period 2009-2010. we have no information on the commission's assessment of this programme, that is to say, whether the money has been properly used. i would remind you that this programme is aimed at small farmers who receive fertilisers and seeds for sowing, in order to increase agricultural production in the long term and achieve food security in the medium term.
vice-president of the commission. − we do not have any ideas on how to produce such guidelines as yet; this is definitely a very complicated matter and we will discuss it with member states. legally, the provisions in this directive are now valid and must be followed, but for the moment we are thinking about guidelines and analysing the replies, and then we will see what we can do.
vice-president of the commission. − the commission agrees that the number of road deaths annually eu-wide still remains unacceptably high. in 2009, around 35 000 people died on the roads of the eu which corresponds to the size of a small town. however, the commission does not agree with the opinion of the honourable member that the third european road safety action programme 2001-2009 has failed. also, the initial target was not met. it led to the strong mobilisation of all parties involved. during this period, 78 000 lives were saved in the european union and in all 2 million victims were saved. beyond the figures, the benefit in terms of pain and of personal and family tragedies avoided is incalculable. in the recently adopted ‘policy orientations for road safety 2011-2020’, the commission proposed to continue with the target of halving the number of road deaths within the european union, starting from the results obtained in 2010. to achieve this target, greater efficiency will be required from eu and national road safety policies. this involves a strong political commitment by all member states, in particular those with poor safety records which should be reflected in the development of comprehensive national road safety strategies drawing on practices which have been shown to be successful elsewhere. it will also require special efforts to reduce road accidents in areas where progress has been slower, such as motorcyclists' safety or the safety of rural roads. technological developments, in particular so-called intelligent transport systems, will also play an important role. as regards the specific issue of the prevention of road accidents involving children, in particular in school buses, it should be noted that very significant progress has been achieved during the past decade with a decrease of 70% in the number of fatalities involving children younger than 15 years of age. the commission is fully aware however of the need to ensure a high level of protection of children who are a particularly vulnerable category of users.
commissioner, thank you for your reply. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the subject of the use of school buses in the transport of children. we are literally talking about the flowering of european youth. i therefore believe that we must definitely set more stringent technical safety standards for these vehicles, more stringent and frequent checks on whether these standards are being applied and, of course, definitely more stringent checks on the professional qualifications of the drivers of these buses. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them into account. i am sure that it will be very well received by the european public, because, as i said earlier, we are talking about a very vulnerable group that touches the minds and hearts of all european citizens.
vice-president of the commission. − it is very difficult to make a difference and i do not have any evidence to say that one country is better than another. in general, baltic sea countries are all very sensitive about environmental issues and maritime transport issues as well. you know that the nordic countries initiated – and were the main drivers behind – a special decision to reduce sulphur in ship emissions, so i really do not have any evidence to single one country out from another.
member of the commission. - so i will present the answer to five questions which are grouped together, covering the same theme. the overall amount of direct payments in the member states of the european union reflects their agricultural production and the average level of aid over a historical period. due to the fact that their historical references have been used to determine the direct payments, this direct aid is differentiated between member states as well as between regions and different categories of farmers. the european union of twelve member states, i.e. the last twelve entries, is in the process of phasing in, i.e. gradually implementing these direct payments. in the eu-10, direct payments will reach the eu-100 level in 2013. as for the last two member states to accede, bulgaria and romania, which have equivalent treatment, they will start the phasing-in of these direct payments in 2016, having started with a level of 25% of these payment levels in 2007. however, all the member states of the european union of twelve, i.e. all the new member states, also have the possibility of supplementing the european union's direct payments with national subsidies within limits which are clearly defined by the regulation and the accession treaties. as called for by the council in the 2008 cap health check and the 2003 cap reform, the commission has committed itself to examining the possibilities for the development of the direct payments system, in particular as regards the issue of different levels of payments between member states. for the period after 2013, the commission will study and evaluate the different options for the reform of the direct payments system. the necessary adjustment of the direct payments system and in particular of their distribution in order to ensure greater equity between member states and between the different categories of farmers is at the heart of the debate on the future of the common agricultural policy. however, questions remain about the modalities and criteria to be used to determine the transition to more equitable support. an important issue for the future distribution of direct support between member states will be how to move from the current situation to a future distribution that is more equitable, while avoiding major disruptions that could have significant economic consequences in certain regions or for certain production systems. the cap post-2013 will also have to address many environmental challenges, including the issue of european soil degradation, which is now a very serious problem and is exacerbated by the issue of climate change. biodiversity is also a key priority for the sustainable management of natural resources in the europe 2020 strategy. although the objective of halting biodiversity loss by 2010 has not been achieved, clear progress has been made and the common agricultural policy has made a significant contribution to this. at present, the common agricultural policy supports sustainable land management through direct payments linked to compliance with environmental provisions, including good agri-environmental practices on soil erosion, organic matter content and structure, and through specific rural development measures, including payments for agri-environmental measures that go beyond the basic conditions set out in good agricultural and environmental conditions. in addition, in order to ensure better management of european soils and to promote the maintenance of the organic matter they contain, the commission presented in 2006 a draft framework directive for soil protection. one of the objectives is to identify the causes of erosion and prevent it. the project also takes into account the tools offered by the common agricultural policy for this purpose. as regards biodiversity, the common agricultural policy now refers to compliance with environmental provisions, including the birds directive and the habitats directive, the non-compliance of which entails penalties that reduce direct aids, as well as specific rural development measures, in particular payments for natura 2000 regions and also agri-environmental payments. as regards the cap post-2013, the commission is fully aware of the scale of the environmental challenges to be addressed and is currently studying the various possibilities for better integration of environmental issues across all instruments of the common agricultural policy, both pillar 1 and pillar 2. the impact assessment to prepare legislative proposals for the cap after 2013 is underway and a communication with the outlines for the future of the common agricultural policy is planned for november 2010. i shall be presenting this communication to the committee on agriculture on 17 november.
i am sure you will recognize, commissioner, the substantial differences between the regions and the member states of the union in the agricultural sector. i refer, among other things, to the size, structure and type of farms, the contribution of agriculture to employment and the economy in disadvantaged areas and in environmentally vulnerable areas. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the aid is not used to finance the production of cereals. can you confirm, commissioner, that objective criteria will be established for the allocation of direct aid?
member of the commission. - the first question, mr papastamkos, is that there are differences between member states, between regions, between different categories of farmers. that is why, as i have said on several occasions, i do not think that a flat rate system, i.e. equal payment per hectare, for all these categories is the right solution. so, from the current system of historical references, we have calculated subsidies on the basis of a level of production of 10, 15 or 20 years ago, a system which we want to abandon; the idea is to replace it with objective criteria. however, care must also be taken to ensure that this rebalancing is carried out in a transitional, lean way so that those who will be disadvantaged by these systems can economically integrate this transition. i therefore intend to propose objective criteria which will be combined with the initial situation to ensure a sustainable transition. mr la via, what you are talking about are indeed issues which can be taken into account in the second pillar of the rural development programme of agri-environmental measures. the intention is to maintain this type of agri-environmental measures which take account of the specificity of certain regions and what you are mentioning is an area where there is erosion, where some bushes can start fires. the member states will have the possibility, through the regulation which will be proposed for the period after 2013 as well, to take account of these specific issues in the context of environmental measures and to provide for a specific support system in this direction. it is in this sense that flexibility is thought to be useful in order to achieve a certain objective, namely good management of natural resources, so that member states can use specific instruments under this second pillar. i think this is a question that can be integrated into the flexibility that can be offered to the member states. in the case of romania and bulgaria, during the accession negotiations for these member states, the treaty provided for a system of phasing-in, i.e. a gradual increase in direct aids. in 2008, during the health check of the cap, it was said that the post-2013 reform would take into account this issue of balancing the level of payments, perhaps in a faster way. i therefore think that this question should be taken into account. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community.
member of the commission. − the commission is well aware that the application of cross compliance by member states can be improved, as highlighted by the court of auditors' report in 2008. however, i would also like to emphasize that the analysis carried out by the court of auditors in its report was based on a two-year period, just after the introduction of good agricultural and environmental conditions. to this end, the commission implemented, from the first year of application of cross compliance in 2005, a series of initiatives aimed at helping member states and ensuring that they comply with their legal obligations. the commission's assistance has been provided through numerous exchanges of correspondents on these subjects and discussions in various forums dealing with these specific issues. the regulatory discussions took place in the management committee which is competent on these subjects, the more technical discussions in an expert group dealing specifically with cross compliance, and discussions on control techniques take place in some specialised workshops. in addition, since 2004, the commission has regularly published guidance documents for member states to help them adapt their system at national level. the commission's monitoring of the legal obligations of the member states is carried out on the basis of information provided by the member states through audits carried out in the member states themselves. where weaknesses are identified during audits, financial corrections shall be applied to the expenditure of the member states concerned, if a risk to the agricultural fund is identified. this has been the case in the past, and a number of procedures are under way, including the present one. the commission is convinced that all these initiatives have led to a significant improvement in the functioning of the cross compliance system, in particular since the findings of the court of auditors in its 2007 report. efforts in this area will of course be continued as the commission pays particular attention to the proper functioning of this system, which is an essential element of the common agricultural policy.
member of the commission. - what i am seeing at the moment is that it is the taxpayers, consumers and non-governmental organisations who are very sensitive to this issue and who are asking farmers for a lot. but i also think that we need to be able to give farmers the means to communicate about the efforts they make, including when they market their produce. the quality system for agri-food products that is to be reformed will also give farmers the opportunity to communicate better, through their products, all the efforts they have to make and all the elements they have to take into account, including issues related to biodiversity. this is particularly important when taking account of the different agricultural production systems, since this diversity of agricultural production systems also allows for consideration of environmental and biodiversity issues. in the case of the common agricultural policy, supporting the diversity of production systems, and also supporting direct contact between farmers, producers and consumers, will be one more way for farmers to be able to communicate better, through the products they market, all the conditions they must meet. other means are already being used. the links between agricultural production and rural tourism are another way for farmers to communicate about everything they do to maintain the space, to maintain the landscapes, in the productive work they do. i believe that all these instruments, which are present in the framework of the common agricultural policy and which may be strengthened in the future, can be used by farmers to communicate better about their efforts. i now turn to the other question. in my view, the rules and standards concerning the environment or the activities that the farmer undertakes to take account of the question of the proper management of natural resources are not separate from the economic and social question. in the proposals we are going to make, and we will be talking about them after 17 november, the idea is not to shift the focus from economic and social issues to environmental issues alone, but to better integrate environmental issues into the farmer's thinking so that, i think, in the future we can really talk about competitive agriculture. the farmer must be competitive from an economic and environmental point of view, that is to say, in the way he manages his natural resources, the soil and water with which he works, but also in the social aspects of creating or maintaining employment in rural areas. i can assure you that the fact that the environmental aspect or rather the good management of natural resources is being strengthened in the cap does not weaken the ability of the farmer to be economically competitive by taking social aspects into account. when we have the documents on the table, i will be able to prove this to you with concrete examples in the proposals we are going to make.
member of the commission. − the greek rural development programme for 2007-2013, co-financed by the european agricultural fund for rural development, does not contain a guarantee fund for small or very small enterprises in the version currently in force. no request for amendment of the programme to include such a guarantee fund has been submitted to the commission's directorate-general for agriculture by the greek authorities. it is important to emphasise that under subsidiarity, it is the member states who propose the content of the measures of the rural development programme in accordance with the rural development regulation. article 19 of regulation (ec) no 1698/2005 on support for rural development by the eafrd provides that rural development programmes may be revised at the request of the member states after approval by the national monitoring committee and following examination and approval by the commission. as regards the fisheries sector in greece, the national authorities have informed the commission of their intention to set up a new instrument to assist small enterprises in the fisheries sector. according to the greek authorities, this instrument will be managed within the framework of a financial regime that is already in place. the greek authorities also informed the commission of their intention to co-finance this instrument through the operational programme for the fisheries sector in greece for the period 2007-2013. as the establishment of financial instruments is provided for in the operational programme for fisheries, the commission is in favour of the establishment of such financial instruments, in order to implement key measures of the operational programme, provided that they comply with the relevant legal provisions, in particular articles 34 to 37 of regulation no 498/2007. the amount to be contributed to this instrument under the european fisheries fund could amount to eur 35 million. the selection criteria for the beneficiary will be decided by the monitoring committee of the abovementioned operational programme. the greek authorities are in the process of finalising the action plan which will also include the conditions for the operation of the financial instrument. the commission expects this financial instrument, which is co-financed by the european fisheries fund, to be operational before the end of 2010.
i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a full answer to this question. i would also like to ask you whether the greek government has made this specific proposal, whether you have developed some aspects of the question and whether what you have mentioned - that is, whether they will be operational from 2010 - depends on whether the request from the greek government will be made in time for co-financing to take place in the areas you have mentioned.
member of the commission. - to clarify, the question had two aspects: one related to the agricultural sector, the small and very small enterprises in the agricultural sector, and the other to the fisheries sector. what i say in my reply is that the greek authorities have not submitted a request for such an instrument for small and very small enterprises in the agricultural sector, but they have submitted one for the fisheries sector. i say that for the fisheries sector, following the request of the greek government, this instrument could be ready by the end of 2010, while for the agricultural sector, as there has not yet been a request from the greek government, i cannot give you any more details. i told you that was a government decision. following the adoption of a possible decision to amend the rural development programme by the greek monitoring committee, the government will be able to make this proposal. but so far, for the agricultural sector, we have not received any proposal to that effect.
member of the commission. − european union aquaculture is at the forefront of sustainable development. the commission and i have to admit that the aquaculture sector deserves greater recognition of its assets and values. the commission therefore adopted a communication entitled 'building a sustainable future for aquaculture' which identifies three strategic objectives for public authorities to pursue: promoting the competitiveness of the aquaculture sector; maintaining its sustainability; and improving its governance. in this communication, the commission identifies a number of measures to be taken by public authorities at all levels – eu, national and regional – in order to address the challenges faced by the sector. in order to support the sustainable development of european aquaculture, including shellfish production, the eu has in place comprehensive animal health and food safety legislation. we are very active at international level in establishing animal health and food safety standards for aquaculture products, including shellfish, that are essential for international trade. the commission has also established an eu reference laboratory for mollusc diseases, which receives annual financial support, to ensure coordination of national laboratories in the member states and provide scientific support to the commission. the commission, with the concerned member states, is also closely monitoring the abnormal mortalities observed in oysters over the past few years and has taken measures to control the virus that seems to be associated with these mortalities. as far as the overall strategy for eu aquaculture is concerned, the commission would also like to recall the debate held in parliament in june 2010, based on the report prepared by guido milana. the commission appreciates parliament’s support for sustainable aquaculture and for giving it a greater focus. the commission is of the view that sustainable aquaculture activities should be adequately supported through the common fisheries policy, and that this aspect should be covered under the reformed common fisheries policy. the commission is convinced of the need to help the sector organise itself more efficiently. in particular, we want to strengthen its producer and inter-branch organisations so as to better link production forecasts to market needs and ensure higher value for their products through marketing and labelling.
member of the commission. − i agree with mr gallagher that there are huge opportunities open to us in the aquaculture sector. we can indeed create many jobs. that is why we are planning to have a separate chapter on aquaculture in our cfp reform. i also would like to mention that we are going to secure a special funding line. that is most important. i would also like to inform mr kelly that we are aware of these problems and i agree with him that we have a lot to do with regard to the traceability of our products. that is why we have a labelling chapter in our cfp reform. the commission is seeking to secure a level playing field throughout the world for our fisheries and the fisheries that produce the products we are obliged to import.
member of the commission. − i would like to thank mr tsoukalas for his question because this really is a very important issue for us and i have to say clearly and openly that the implementation of the european fisheries fund has not yet reached cruising speed. we are not satisfied with it. certified interim payments sent by member states to the commission amount to 5% of the overall eff allocation. however, the data we have received recently from the member states under annual reporting show that by the end of 2009 18.2% of the overall eff allocation was committed to specific projects. this is encouraging. importantly, these figures include premiums not only under axis 1 but also other axes. only axis 4 ‘sustainable development for fishing areas’ is unfortunately lagging behind due to the long implementation process required to set up partnerships. the reasons for this situation include, firstly, the late adoption of the eff regulation; secondly, the delayed adoption of the operational programmes, some of which were adopted in the second half of 2008; thirdly, problems in setting up the management and control systems, the approval of which is the precondition for sending the payments to the commission; and fourthly, the effects of the financial and economic crisis on the fisheries sector. at this level of implementation, it is too early to state whether the eff achieved its objectives. more information will be available with the interim evaluation due at the end of the 2011. it is also difficult to point to best practices in this respect as member states have very different eff amounts to spend and these amounts have been allocated to axes in a diverse way which impacts on the rate of absorption. for example axis 1, ‘measures for the adaptation of the community fishing fleet’, is very easy to absorb. the others are not so easy. at the meeting of directors-general organised by the belgian presidency last september as a remedy to the absorption problems, notably to the problem of access to capital, the commission recommended financial engineering techniques such as the use of facilitators or the simplification of procedures and application forms. the next eff committee will have presentations on the use of these possibilities. the implementation of the greek operational programme for 2007-2013 is delayed. i am sorry to say this, but it really is delayed. up to 15 september 2010, actual payments only reached eur 5 000 600, which amounts to 2% of the total eff allocation. two percent is a very small amount. this unsatisfactory situation results mainly from problems in setting up the management and control system and delays in the launching of key measures under the operational programme. the financial crisis is also responsible for some delays, in particular for measures under axis 2. the commission is currently preparing its annual report on the implementation of the eff in 2009 which will provide further information and background on the question posed by the honourable member.
commissioner, thank you for your full answer. i take this opportunity, since you have referred to the dire economic situation and the rather incomplete implementation of the european fisheries fund, to point out that i would like to know whether a complete ban on fishing gear, such as fishing nets, would prevent compensation for fishermen who lose their jobs, or whether, in accordance with the regulation, the two-year derogation from the european fisheries fund rules could be extended in order to ensure sustainable social conditions.
madam president, i would like to thank mrs barbara weiler, who i think is lending a helping hand to small and mediumsized enterprises throughout europe and thus helping europe itself. at a time of particular crisis for the union's economy, a very serious and well-founded effort is being made to support small and mediumsized enterprises. we all know that late payments are often the cause of the bankruptcy of these firms and, consequently, of the loss of jobs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the fact that greece has agreed to what could be described as 'narrow' payment margins shows our great commitment to the resolution of the situation in my country. the general rule of 30 days payments means, very simply, that we have to change our internal administrative control procedures for approving payments. the 60-day exception, particularly in areas such as health, further gives us the margin to handle chain payments which are not always easily controlled. i believe - and i want - that we will succeed, and that is because we owe it to the workers and businessmen of greece, to the workers and businessmen of europe. we must give smes the opportunity to work with greater motivation and to create healthy growth.
madam president, i would like to send a message of solidarity to the people of hungary. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the road is not compromised. we need to catalogue the hazardous materials. the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the proposals contained in the report. we have asked for a ban on the use of cyanide in gold mining and the commission must take the initiative in this direction, since we have had a huge accident in baia mare in the past, with particularly serious consequences, precisely because of the use of cyanide. i agree with you completely on what you said about the solidarity fund. finally, we must review the soil directive, we must stop being 'blocked' at council level, we must take responsibility for soil pollution and know who is responsible for it.
mr president, speaking on behalf of the gue group on the berès report on the crisis and explaining why we will not vote on it, i want to say to you, because there were too many historical references, that today's text, in relation to the original text which the rapporteur had tabled, looks like old scrolls, like old parchments on which new texts were written in their original writing, while there were leftovers in the text, what is called a 'palisto'. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a step in the right direction, and it is a step which is not only a step in the right direction but also a step in the right direction. the european union must be able to take action to help the people of europe, and we must be able to take action to help the people of europe. we have made suggestions for improving the text. we have criticised the stability pact and the functioning of the european central bank. we have tabled amendments to see whether those who are still talking about the wrong way for the european union today mean the same thing. our proposal, ladies and gentlemen, is inspired by the movements in france today, by the workers' movements in germany, whose incomes are being reduced in order to bribe siemens, by the workers' movements in greece, which are being treated today as experimental animals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them.
mr president, the berès report on the economic crisis, which we are discussing today, among other things, states in paragraph 32 that some member states, and here i am clearly referring to my country, greece, are not currently in a position to draw up real recovery plans and that all options are limited to cuts in public spending, tax increases and debt reduction until 2012. this position is of enormous importance for greece, not least because there are forces within the country which claim the opposite. i would like to support the berès report's position, because in countries where the deficit and debt are very high, and even more so in countries which have lost access to the international capital market, recovery necessarily requires deficit reduction. there's no other way. if you don't reduce the deficit, you can't access the international markets. if you don't have access to international markets, you can't make a recovery. it is a bitter cup, especially for the citizens, but we must have the courage to tell the citizens the truth.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me start by thanking rapporteurs berès and feio and the honourable members for this very substantial and substantive debate. i do appreciate that the volume of the contributions corresponds to the importance of the issues discussed. i want to make a few comments, responses and remarks on the debate and reports, and i will begin with the international scene. in the world economy, the pre-crisis imbalances are re-emerging, which threatens a sustainable recovery and job creation. it is therefore essential that the g20, first the ministerial meeting this week and then the summit in two weeks, is able to pursue effective international policy coordination to rebalance global growth. all countries must play their part in rebalancing: surplus countries by reinforcing domestic demand, and deficit countries by focusing on export growth. this is a matter of millions of jobs in the world economy and in the european union. the european union is working for a strong and stable international financial system in which exchange rates should reflect economic fundamentals. this is an essential element of the g20 goal of rebalancing global growth for the sake of sustainable recovery and job creation. for the same reasons it is essential for the eu to reform and reinforce its own economic governance. the reports prepared by mrs berès and mr feio are important contributions to this effect, and the commission’s legislative proposals, once adopted, will make a quantum leap towards a true and effectively functioning economic and monetary union. there were some questions about the commission’s views on levies and taxes on financial institutions. i discussed this with president barroso and we thought it would be useful to clarify our position in this regard because there were some confusing statements made concerning this issue. we are in the midst of a fundamental reform of our own financial system and we need to keep up the momentum at the g20 as well. the commission has put forward a proposal first of all on a stability fee or a bank levy so that the private sector, the banking and financial sector, would and will participate towards the costs caused by the crisis and towards the resolution of future crises. this is on the table and in some member states this is being implemented. secondly, the commission wants the financial sector to play a part in covering the costs of the crisis and that is why the eu – and the commission – are committed to pushing for a financial transaction tax at global level. thirdly, the commission has in the meantime tabled as one option for own resources in the eu budget a proposal that the financial sector should make an equitable contribution at eu level, such as a financial activities tax. this is our view. we have proposed a bank levy or stability fee; we have raised the possibility of a financial activities tax as a source for own resources; and thirdly we are committed to pushing for a financial transaction tax at the global level. in the report by mr feio there is a proposal on establishing a european monetary fund. the commission is in favour of establishing a permanent mechanism for crisis prevention and crisis resolution which must have two sides, two elements, two dimensions. there needs to be an accent on crisis prevention as well as on crisis resolution, because it is better to be safe than sorry. as regards crisis resolution, we have clearly stated already in may that a robust framework for crisis management for the euro area is necessary, and the commission intends to make proposals for a permanent crisis resolution mechanism in due time. a few general principles have emerged, especially that crisis prevention and resolution must go hand in hand and that any financial assistance must be subject to strict conditionality. such a permanent mechanism must minimise moral hazard and provide incentives for the member states to pursue a responsible fiscal policy and incentives for investors to pursue responsible lending practices. mr schmidt proposed an amendment concerning voluntary participation of non-euro area member states in the sanctions regime. you know that at the first stage we are proposing a regime for the euro area member states, and at the second stage for all 27 member states. the commission can accept and endorse this amendment which aims at involving the non-euro area member states in the sanctions regime on a voluntary basis. we have made satisfactory progress in the context of the task force and achieved convergence towards the commission’s initiatives to reinforce economic governance, notably focusing on prevention and pre-emptive action, putting an emphasis on debt sustainability, agreeing a method to address macro-economic imbalances and establish an effective enforcement mechanism. even though there has been a convergence of views towards the commission’s proposals in the task force, the normal legislative process is only just starting. so far we have only seen the beginning. we are perhaps at the end of the beginning, but now the real normal legislative process is just starting, and the european parliament as the co-legislator has indeed the crucial and decisive role. we want to work together with you, and we call on the council and parliament to deliver the legislative decisions by the summer of next year so that we can have the new system of economic governance in force by next summer, 2011, when we have the next major round of assessment of effective action. this is really a matter of credibility for the european union in terms of reinforcing economic governance, and i fully agree with you that it is indeed the community method that makes the european union work and deliver. i listened to you very carefully on this. i appreciate your firm commitment to the community method starting with the speeches by mr daul, mr schulz, mr verhofstadt and mr cohn-bendit, although i cannot stretch to such oratory elegance as the ‘deauville deal’ or the ‘casino compromise’. anyway, let us demonstrate together once again that the community method can deliver, and now it must deliver, the new system of economic governance, and let us thus complement the strong monetary union by a strong and effective economic union to make a real and complete economic and monetary union.
president of the council. - mr president, i would like to begin by expressing my gratitude on behalf of the council to the two rapporteurs, mrs berès and mr feio. they are a symbol of parliament's involvement in an issue as important as this. i would also like to say that i urge you to analyse rapidly, particularly on the basis of the principle of co-decision, the initiatives on economic governance, the commission's initiatives which are to bring us the implementation of european economic governance. i think the council is at parliament's disposal to make concrete progress on these proposals.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, wednesday 20 october 2010. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
in writing. i voted against the report which refers to the european external action service, an agency set up under the lisbon treaty. the financial and other support for this service cannot be accepted as it involves political and military means in the wrong orientations and actions of the union's foreign policy, ultimately leading to further militarization of the european union. at the same time, it distances europe from the independent and peace-loving role it should play in solving international problems. in this way it makes it part of the tension and a participating force in adventurous, military interventions in war zones.
in writing. the eu budget for 2011 serves the profits of big capital and the savage attack of monopolies and bourgeois governments against the labour and social rights of workers. it gives even more hot money, subsidies and facilities to the monopoly groups, in addition to the 5 trillion or so already given to them by the national, bourgeois governments, to strengthen their position in the relentless inter-imperialist competition, with their eyes on the capitalist revival phase. the main thrust of the programme is to invest in capital and to slash any - already anaemic - expenditure on workers, small and mediumsized enterprises, poor and middle-class farmers and young people. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a victim of its own policies, and it must not be allowed to continue to be a victim of its own policies. the first budget adopted by the european parliament, with its supposedly increased powers under the lisbon treaty, is worthy of its reactionary character. it proves once again that the european parliament is loyal to the needs and interests of the monopolies and is deeply hostile to the workers and the people's needs. the working class and popular movement needs to strengthen its struggle so that the workers do not pay the burden of the capitalist crisis.
in writing. the original draft budget proposal submitted to the committee on culture and education by the committee on budgets lacked ambitious measures to achieve the europe 2020 headline targets on education, training and mobility. in particular, the committee initially adopted the position of the european commission and the council on the freezing of appropriations for lifelong learning, education and youth entrepreneurship programmes. however, it is comforting that, following the opposition and the concern expressed by the members of the committee on culture and education about the downgrading of education and training policies, particularly at a time when unemployment is rising and affecting many member states of the european union, the committee on budgets tabled the necessary amendments, which i voted in favour of, which increase the appropriations originally provided for (e.g. the case of article 150202 for lifelong learning programmes).
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because it is particularly important for gender equality, for the defence of the rights of workers - women and men - in relation to the right to motherhood and fatherhood. this is an important step in defending and promoting women's rights and equality in the workplace in general, as the report states that 'the fragile health of pregnant, breastfeeding or lactating workers makes it necessary to grant them the right to maternity leave of at least 20 consecutive weeks, allocated before and/or after childbirth, and compulsory fully paid maternity leave of at least six weeks, granted after childbirth'. i also voted in favour of the report and for the additional very important element in it which recognises the right of the father to two weeks' paternity leave.
in writing. i expressed a different view through votes on the question of leave time. i prefer the commission's proposal for 18 weeks. the proposal is realistic and balanced in relation to market conditions, not only because of the economic crisis, but because of the demands, professional obligations and aspirations of the women workers themselves. women must not become the overprotected creatures that the labour market shuns. i would also like to point out that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations on the social dimension of the internal market.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending council directive 92/85/eec on the introduction of measures to encourage improvements in the health and safety at work of pregnant workers and workers who have recently given birth or are breastfeeding. two important factors have led me to vote for certain amendments: firstly, the paramount importance of safeguarding the safety and health of new or expectant mothers and, secondly, the existence in greece of specific legislation to protect pregnant women.
in writing. i voted against the report because it reinforces the commission's attempt to put pressure on the debtor states by proposing tough measures at a time when their public finances are in a bad state. the pressure to pay them off immediately, with the threat of severe financial penalties in the form of interest, serves mainly the entrepreneurs who, taking advantage of the crisis, seek cuts in social protection systems, freezes or even reductions in workers' wages. the claim that smes are being helped is not substantiated because, at the size set by the regulation, they are not in fact smes. such a measure would be justified if it had been preceded by bold support for the real economy of the wage earners and measures to promote social and economic cohesion.
in writing. i voted in favour of the excellent report because it insists on the need for concrete measures to eradicate poverty and social exclusion, by promoting a fair redistribution of income and wealth, ensuring adequate income and thus giving real substance to the european year for the eradication of poverty. it called on the member states to 're-examine' policies to ensure adequate income, bearing in mind that poverty reduction requires the creation of decent and sustainable jobs. it considers that social objectives must be an integral part of the strategy for overcoming the crisis and that job creation should be a priority for the european commission and governments as a first step in reducing poverty. it considers that adequate minimum income schemes should be set at at least 60% of the median income of the state concerned. it also stressed the importance of unemployment benefits to ensure a decent standard of living and the need to reduce the time spent away from work, inter alia by improving the efficiency of public employment services. the need to introduce social security schemes to establish a link between the minimum pension and the corresponding poverty line is also stressed.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution - amendment 3 - (rule 157 (4)) replacing the non-legislative proposal for a resolution a7-0233/2010 on the role of a minimum income in combating poverty and promoting a tolerant society in europe. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one.
in writing. we are voting against the report because the attack of capital and its political representatives against the working class is uniform and has nothing to do with either budget deficits or high debts. the statements by community officials and the resolution of the ep confirm this. the inter-imperialist contradictions cannot be overcome and will only intensify. the eu and the g20 are simply working out plans for more draining of the people's income, for the appropriation of the people's wealth by big capital and the increase of its profits, for the increase of the exploitation of the working class, the reduction of social security and labour rights. the measures decided unanimously strengthen monopolies and put the capitalist crisis on the backs of the workers, while at the same time the eu and the plutocracy try to gold the pill, promote new models of economic governance, green economies and promise future exits from the tunnel in order to create fruitful hopes and implement social consensus. the large mobilisations in greece, france, italy and other countries are strong evidence of the rejection of the options of big capital by the workers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. i voted against because the left cannot accept a report which is the result of a compromise between the socialists and the european right, a report which does not touch on the core of the problem, the root causes of the economic and social crisis. the report commits parliament politically to the neoliberal and destructive proposals of merkel, sarkozy and the task force to tighten the treaties and the stability pact, leading to the disintegration of the welfare state and the degradation of the working people. the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december, in the context of the european council in brussels, called on the commission to take all necessary steps to ensure that the european union's economic and monetary union is fully implemented. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. the beres report contains important issues for the stability of the euro area, which i have voted in favour of. but in the final vote i abstained because i believe that on the one hand it is a general and simplified approach to the eu's economic and budgetary problems and the measures to be taken and on the other hand it refers to the commission's proposals on sanctions against undisciplined member states, as well as other fiscal or financial measures, on which the european parliament has not yet discussed or reached a conclusion. i shall therefore reserve the right to express a particular view at a later date.
in writing. i voted against the berès report because the proposals for european economic governance do not address the structural problems of incomplete economic union, do not remove the asymmetry between the 'pumpkin' economic union and full monetary union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is no strategic direction at all to ensure balanced growth and boost competitiveness for all member states.
in writing. i voted against the report because, in the name of economic governance in the european union, it adopts the dominant notion and policy of strict discipline in the stability pact and supports preventive sanctions against 'maastricht-indexes' member states. the aim of fiscal stability and strict control of national budgets leads to harsh measures affecting workers' incomes, pensions, employment and social security rights. and all this when we see the results of these policies in greece, in ireland, in spain, in portugal and elsewhere. the european union has also taken the initiative in the field of the environment, and the european union has also taken the initiative in the field of the environment, and the european union has also taken the initiative in the field of the environment.
in writing. i voted against the feio report because the proposals for european economic governance do not address the structural problems of incomplete economic union, do not remove the asymmetry between the 'pumpkin' economic union and full monetary union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is no strategic direction at all to ensure balanced growth and boost competitiveness for all member states.
the next item is the joint debate on- the report by franziska katharina brantner on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1717/2006 on the establishment of a stability mechanism for development cooperation (com (2009) 0195 - c7-0042/2009 - 2009/0058 ((cod))), and the report by charles gay mitchell on behalf of the committee on development on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1905/2006 establishing a financing mechanism for development cooperation and regulation (ec) no 1889/2006 establishing a financial instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide (cod) c59-0605/2010) on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1905/2006 on the european parliament and council establishing a stability mechanism for development cooperation (com (2009) 0195 - c7-0042/2009 - 2009/0058 ((cod)) (a7-00490)), and commission regulation (ec) no 2009/101907/col (cod) no 1905-0707-010 (cod)) on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1905/2010 on the establishment of a stability mechanism for development cooperation between the european union and the european parliament and the european union (com (2009) 01957-08-0607) and the council on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and the european parliament and the council amending regulation (cod) regulation (cod) regulation (com (2009) 01901901907/0047-07-0047-07-07-07-07) and the european parliament and council amending regulation (cod) on
colleagues, this is not a point of order: it is an interesting point and it might play on some local tv, but it is not a point of order. kindly do not interrupt the session with such points.
you deceived me there, ana. i thought you were finishing, then suddenly you continued your speech, so i did not know whether or not to bang the gavel. the fact is that in the blue-card procedure the questioner has 30 seconds and the person who answers has only 30 seconds.
mr president, i am afraid that the 2011 budget of the european union is unfortunate, both in providing for a medium-term review and in introducing direct revenue from new taxes, which will ultimately be borne by the final consumers, that is, the european citizens. i think, mr president, that this is not the right time to impose these taxes, when europe is sinking into recession, when workers are losing their jobs, their purchasing power is falling and, above all, their insurance rights are being lost. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it seems that once again in the effort of fiscal discipline we have left out our plans for growth, and that by applying economic theory we have done away with politics. we must convince the citizens of europe by our example that we are taking care of them in the best possible way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so i propose certain things: first, our parliamentary allowance will be reduced by €1,000 in 2011, which each of us will use to recruit a new unemployed european citizen, from his own country. secondly, the reduction of our travel costs, in terms of our airline tickets, so that we can also travel in economic class.
president of the council. - in answering these two questions, i think you are right. the union must change its strategy vis-à-vis copenhagen. the union needs to explain its position much more, the union needs to talk much more with groups of countries whose views differ significantly from ours and it is true, the link between climate change and the millennium goals is obvious. we cannot of course expect, and especially not in the next few years, in the very next few years, the same effort from those who have to reduce a heavy industrial liability, as we know in the union and in the developing countries. it does not seem to be enough, but that is why the union is making a very substantial contribution to this principle of fast start, of adequate financing to help developing countries. this element is clearly aimed at countries which cannot afford such a reduction. i think it's all part of the same thing. the dialogue and the appropriate means must be able to allow developing countries to reflect more fully on their own reduction objectives, particularly in terms of greenhouse gas emissions.
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the presidency, in continuing the work begun by previous presidencies on strengthening european cooperation in the field of school education, is giving particular attention to the question of key competences and the question of school dropout. in doing so, it follows up the conclusions of the european council of march 2010, which stressed the need to reduce the rate of early school leaving in europe and set a collective target of bringing it down to below 10% by 2020. with this in mind, the presidency has launched several initiatives, starting with the ministerial seminar it organised at the very beginning of its term last july. the seminar, together with the meeting of the directors-general for compulsory education, which had preceded it the day before, focused on the difficulties encountered by pupils in acquiring basic skills, i.e. mother tongue, science and mathematics, as well as on the experience of the member states and the policy guidelines to be developed in the field of the prevention of early school leaving. following these meetings, the presidency drew conclusions on the importance of raising the level of key competences in the context of european cooperation in the field of school education. the council is currently discussing these conclusions and the presidency intends to put them on the agenda of the november council. more generally, the council is awaiting a proposal for a recommendation which the commission should present shortly on the problem of school drop-out at european level. at the same time, efforts will continue or be intensified at national level to gradually reduce the school drop-out rate by 2020, in line with the target set by the european council. in conclusion, i would also like to point out that in the context of the european year against poverty and social exclusion, the belgian presidency also organised, on 28 september, the conference entitled 'breaking the vicious circle of inequality: social inclusion in and through education'. the results of this conference will feed into the exchange of views which will take place at the education council on 19 november.
mr. secretary, thank you for your answer. i would like to add to what you have said the following questions: where do all these children who leave school go next? the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the development of the european audiovisual industry, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. does the council have any information on this, or at least has it asked or is it planning to ask the commission to do what we call 'social pathway mapping' in order to know what the life-span of these children is and how we can have better results in our policies?
president of the council. - what you say is not false. it is difficult to imagine today that, in order to set up this observatory, it will be sufficient to rely on what the individual member states have already devised themselves as a census, as a type of violence, as a proportion of the different types of violence, in order to identify the problem. it's a start. what we expect from the commission is a scheme, a direction, a methodology to be able to harmonize across the european territory, in the 27 member states, a reliable way of identifying all the types of violence and their proportion and to be able to draw up, together if possible, a strategy that will bear fruit.
president of the council. - (without the microphone) answer this question easily. i am very much in favour of using an existing agency rather than creating a new one. i think there are too many agencies and that there is no need to create new ones. i hope, in any case, that the commission's proposed strategy will be drawn up using existing structures, such as the vienna agency.
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, like the european parliament, the council adopted conclusions on the green paper on the management of bio-waste in the european union on 25 june 2009. in its conclusions, the council encourages the commission to continue its impact assessment with a view to developing, if appropriate, a legislative proposal for eu legislation on biodegradable waste by 2010. you will tell me that it is 2010 and in particular the council has asked the commission to look at prevention measures, measures to introduce separate collection of biodegradable waste, a quality assurance system based on the principle of integrated chain management and traceability throughout the process, and the setting of labelling requirements and quality criteria for compost and digestates. furthermore, the council of 11 june 2010 took note of the commission communication on the next steps for the management of bio-waste in the european union. in this communication, the commission indicated that it intended to continue work on the introduction of technical rules to support the management of bio-waste and thus amend directive 86/278 on sewage sludge to this end. the council will of course consider a new proposal to this effect and the belgian presidency organised a conference on biowaste on 21 september to discuss, among other things, the substance of the commission communication. the results of this conference were communicated to the council on 14 october this year, so it is quite recent.
president of the council. - i will try to be as brief as possible, madam president, so as not to be reminded of the order at the end of my speech, but the question is interesting. it is up to the commission, as you know, whether or not to propose such a specific directive. the council understands that in its communication on the next steps in the management of union bio-waste, the commission did not find any gaps in the current legislation that required specific legislation, but announced a proposal to amend the directive on these sewage sludges. this will not satisfy you, but you should also know that when the council conclusions were drawn up in 2009, it appeared that the member states were divided as to whether or not a specific directive on bio-waste was needed. and so my answer will not be either yes or no, because the member states are divided. the council will of course look with interest at the commission's proposals for this sewage sludge directive and in particular its provisions on biowaste, which will obviously be covered by this proposal.
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the main objective of the stability and growth pact remains to maintain price stability in the european union. and under the treaty, member states must conduct national policies consistent with the stability and growth pact and the broad economic policy guidelines. the council of 7 september agreed to the introduction of the european semester from 2011. the main objective of this exercise is to align the timetable for the submission of the stability and growth programmes and the national reform programmes with a view to achieving coherence in structural surveillance at all levels of fiscal discipline, macroeconomic stability and growth, while maintaining formally separate individual procedures. this process will improve the coordination of economic policies within the european union and contribute to strengthening fiscal discipline, macroeconomic stability and growth. the same concern has led the european union, in accordance with the powers laid down in the treaty, to consider measures to encourage recovery while also ensuring budgetary discipline. europe 2020, the new european union strategy for jobs and smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, adopted by the european council on 17 june, responds to this challenge. it envisages a reorientation of crisis management policies towards the introduction of medium- and long-term reforms, which favour growth and employment and also ensure the sustainability of public finances. as you know, the europe 2020 strategy has identified among its main objectives an increased level of employment, improved conditions for research and development, improved education levels - as was discussed in a previous question - and the promotion of social inclusion, including poverty reduction. in my view, therefore, there is no incompatibility between a stability pact and measures to restore growth and employment.
president of the council. - you're referring to the irish problem. i understand, and we are all sensitive, of course, to the irish problem. the answer i give to your preliminary question is obviously a very broad answer covering 27 member states because we have to have coherent policies, we have to have monetary and fiscal stability policies, stimulus policies, and it is true that some will obviously have more difficulties than others, depending on their debt situation, depending on their annual debt for the last two or three years and since the crisis began. so, it's true, ireland is going through a difficult time. believe me, europe clearly understands this difficult moment, but i think that many countries are in this situation, many countries will be in this situation tomorrow, and rigour does not prevent solidarity. i therefore think that in the measures that the commission has put on the table this week on economic governance, we will invariably find the concern not to leave one of the countries on the side of the road - you know what europe has been able to do in terms of solidarity in the case of greece - let us not compare the situation of two countries, but know that, under no circumstances, will europe leave one of the 27 member states on the side of the road.
the council's conclusions and the strategy for 2020 contain, of course, messages that are trying to be optimistic. but i think that in the budget we voted today, in terms of achieving the 2020 targets, for example in research and innovation, we are not doing enough and it is not possible to achieve the targets we want with these amounts. but we also see silence from the council on the great disparities between the north and the south in the european union. i am reminded of a recent statement by a senior european union official, the president of the eurogroup, according to which large countries in the union, such as france and germany, were aware of the problem in greece - i say this because you mentioned greece - and yet they did nothing in the past because they benefited greatly from this situation. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life in the regions of the community.
madam president, thank you for giving me the floor again. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. in 2007 we set up the european action plan on labour mobility, which expires in 2010. we are waiting for an evaluation of this project and a new proposal from the council? we also have the leonardo da vinci programme in terms of worker mobility. we are not talking about the european parliament, but about the european parliament.
president of the council. - first of all, i would like to say that the free movement of workers is a real priority for the council. i think that everything is being done to inform the member states which retain a number of restrictions, to analyse this transitional phase in which they retain a number of restrictions and to see how they can lift these restrictions. i should also add, in answer to one of the questions, that the free movement of workers is a priority of the council, but of the presidency in particular, because you will find in the 18-month work programme of the council presidency trio - spain, belgium and hungary - that these three countries will work, and are currently working, on the examination of the single market in progress by encouraging the implementation of the four freedoms, since exploiting the full potential of the single market is essential to reconnecting with growth. our programme specifically mentions the possibility of examining the transitional periods which restrict the free movement of works in the new member states. are these transitional restrictions to be regarded as incompatible with the free movement of workers? it is not for me to judge, since the transitional restrictions are defined in the accession treaties and such restrictions have been used for all accessions. it is therefore, of course, beyond the incentive we can give them, for each member state applying these restrictions to analyse the impact on its own labour market and decide whether to maintain or lift these restrictions before the end of these transitional periods. i would remind you: april 2011 for 2004 membership and december 2013 for 2007 membership.
the next item is the statement by the commission on aid to pakistan and possible involvement of the european industrial sector.
madam president, as regards the manufacturing industry, i would remind you that pakistan is the fourth largest producer of cotton in the world, with 9% of world production, followed by the european union with just 5.5%. we are therefore aware that this is a very serious matter. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. on the other hand, as my colleagues have said, mr melo was very articulate, coming from a country with a fragile economy, portugal. the italian colleagues have mentioned it, and i would add greece, which you all know has problems. i would like to ask the commission whether we have mechanisms to ensure that the aid we give to pakistan is properly directed and not used to support other purposes and industries at the expense of european companies and european workers.
member of the commission. − madam president, first of all i would like to present very clearly the figures we are speaking about. we are talking about a trade volume of eur 900 million. the effect will be eur 100 million of additional exports to the european market by pakistan, but the overall balance for the european union will only be eur 50 million because, as a result of the more favourable position of pakistan to export on the european market, there will also be a certain amount of trade diversion, which means that other importers will lose some opportunities on the european markets. so, the overall impact will be about eur 50 million on a yearly basis. i am saying this because i heard again in this debate that 120 000 jobs would be lost. now you all have a calculator tool on your mobile phone; if europe is to lose 120 000 jobs because of an additional eur 50 million of imports on the european market, then there is really a serious problem with the european textile industry, regardless of what happens with pakistan. it is simply not serious to put that argument forward. that is my first remark. secondly, we have duly taken into account the sensitivities of the european textile industry and the somewhat difficult position this industry might be in. bed linen is not part of the tariff lines that we are proposing, and neither are apparel or household linen, which are three of the most sensitive product lines for europe. on the contrary, a lot of semi-finished products are included. if they are semi-finished, it means that they will be finished in europe, which should in fact generate cheaper imports for those companies which give the final treatment to such products. so this not immediately harming us. i would even say the opposite. we have really been studying very carefully what would be a good proposal for pakistan without harming european industry too much at a time when we are also coming out of an economic crisis that is certainly not easy to manage. a comment was also raised concerning cotton exports. there is a scarcity on the worldwide cotton market, and it is true that pakistan is one of the main cotton producers. what i have in mind is that once we have this agreement, once we see that we are really getting somewhere, we should also ask pakistan to make sure that our own textile industry gets enough cotton to be able to produce what the market is asking for. as there is such a worldwide scarcity of cotton, or at least certain varieties of cotton, you might ask why we do not import those cotton varieties from africa. well, because they do not produce the right varieties of cotton we need, and it is not easy to switch to a different kind of cotton production from one day to another, so we will have to pay special attention to that problem. let me just conclude by saying that when you look at the situation with respect to pakistan, what we need is more aid and more trade; we need both. the european union has contributed eur 320 million already, 60% of what the united nations initially asked for. we will continue to do so; that is more aid. trade is not aid, as has been said in this plenary. trade is about giving opportunities to the pakistani economy to produce and to export and to give jobs to the people that need those jobs. i think it is an essential tool in economic recovery that we should give additional trading opportunities to pakistan. but it is not about aid, which means that you cannot direct those who will be, let us say, the beneficiaries. it is much easier to direct the process in the case of trade, but we also know that while trade has its frailties we are not going to recover an economy by aid. i think you need both elements, aid and trade, and that is why we are working on both possibilities. it is true that we should also bear in mind, as i have been saying in this plenary, that we are talking about a region that has been severely devastated. many members of parliament from italy have spoken, and i understand that the territory of pakistan which is flooded is about the size of the territory of the whole of italy. that is what we are talking about, so i think we should help them, but we should also bear in mind that this is a very sensitive region which is geo-strategically very important. it is also very important to us and to our security. it would be very dangerous for europe if this region became unstable, so we should do everything we can to make sure that the stability of the region is not affected by what happens in pakistan. so this is an overall array of measures which we are employing. we have political discussions with pakistan; we had a summit with them recently, and we will continue to have such discussions. several eu officials have been going there as well as commissioner georgieva, for example, with respect to humanitarian aid. we have the aid package, which is considerable, and we also have an economic approach in terms of more trade. i think, and i hope, that this will really mean something considerable for pakistan. i am also convinced that by helping pakistan we also, to a certain extent, help ourselves.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the report by mrs cristiana muscardini, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the indication of the country of origin for certain products imported from third countries (com (2005) 0661 - c7-0048/2010 - 2005/0254 (cod)) (a7-0273/2010).
the committee on regional development has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of south africa on trade in textile products. - the mr president, commissioner, the sustainable use of the marine environment is a vital prerequisite for the sustainability and development of europe as a whole, and in particular of the countries whose economies are directly linked to the sea. the balanced development of key sectors such as fisheries, aquaculture, energy, transport and tourism can guarantee the future of jobs and the incomes of citizens. from the point of view of regional development, it is vital to exploit territorial cohesion as a new basis for further integration of the internal market. for the maritime sector, this means further promoting short sea shipping and improving the links of remote maritime regions and islands with each other, the mainland and the economic centres. this is a necessary condition for strengthening social, economic and territorial cohesion. the innovative approach adopted with the integrated maritime policy is also important, changing the fragmented way in which policies for the maritime sector are formulated. the use of synergies has a twofold benefit for the citizens of the european union: it increases the effectiveness of actions and saves resources.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, an integrated maritime policy is very important for the european union. it is essential to make full use of one of europe's key assets: its strong maritime tradition. the strategic objective of an integrated maritime policy is, through better coordination of maritime-related policies, to strengthen europe's leadership in both maritime research and technological development in areas such as shipbuilding, the exploitation of marine resources, the development of offshore energy sources. the integrated maritime policy must support european shipping, which is the first in the world, so that it can play a leading role at international level. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's maritime policy is not disrupted by the threat of a crisis. the report by mrs meissner rightly emphasizes and analyses the importance of maritime governance, maritime surveillance and maritime spatial planning. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament has therefore called on the coastal states of all the sea basins, and particularly the mediterranean, to resolve adoption issues on the basis of the convention on the law of the sea. it is also important that the report stresses the great importance of exclusive economic zones for europe. i would like to congratulate mrs meissner on her very good effort and the cooperation we have had, and thank all the shadow rapporteurs for their efforts. at the same time, however, mr president, as a strong supporter of the competitiveness of european shipping, i personally have serious reservations and serious concerns about the amendment tabled by mrs meissner in recent days.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the sea. the lisbon treaty now requires new policies and instruments to protect the environment and create jobs, to minimise conflicts, to promote synergies and to eliminate unfair competition. the integrated maritime policy requires a cross-sectoral, comprehensive strategy for sustainable development in coastal and island regions and the seas. cross-border maritime spatial planning is a key tool for the rational delimitation of the uses of the sea. we need to encourage the establishment of single integrated maritime governance structures at regional level and the development of strategies for the union's maritime macro-regions. we believe that it is necessary to explore the prospect of creating a european coastguard for an effective integrated maritime surveillance. finally, it is undeniable that shipping should also play a part in reducing carbon dioxide emissions. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the introduction of a european shipping register is a good one, but it is not enough to make a clear distinction between the shipping registers of the member states and the shipping registers of the community.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to focus on the issue of shipping emissions. it is a very difficult task indeed, but it is necessary to include shipping emissions in the plans for reducing overall emissions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if this agreement is not reached, we will obviously seriously consider regional measures at european union level. as mr danellis said, it is very difficult, and if we are to have any chance of success we must follow the example of air transport. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its obligations under the treaty. the ets has proven to be quite complex, inefficient; we need to find a simple but effective solution, perhaps a carbon tax, perhaps other hybrid ways that are effective and simple.
in writing. i voted against this report, although i agree with and support the proposed amendments, particularly those which re-establish the european parliament's supervisory role. i was not present at the final vote, particularly as regards the financing and development cooperation mechanism, because its funds have been used, directly or indirectly, to equip and train the police and the army in various parts of africa. i am of the opinion that development finance should under no circumstances be used for military or politico-military purposes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on european standardisation as it extends the environmental and safety barriers of the existing regime. however, i share the concern that the commission in its text gives little importance to innovation as a key factor in improving european standards. and it is paradoxical that research and innovation, which we so often invoke as the driving force behind the growth and competitiveness of our economies, has only a small role to play in a sector which is particularly crucial to the promotion of european trade.
in writing. i voted against the report by my colleague, despite the fact that we are in the same eurogroup and despite the fact that the report has managed to contain a number of positive points. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i could not vote for the report when, among other things, it expresses dissatisfaction with the 'protective' measures, as it calls them, taken by argentina to deal with the financial crisis and, because of this, indirectly asks the commission to decide on sanctions by calling on it to 'regularly examine the issue of market access with latin american countries'. i could not ignore the fact that the 'rules of the market' and european interventionism in the internal affairs of other countries prevail, and that this is against measures which support social cohesion and protect the citizens of those countries. the eu's trade and relations with latin american countries must be based on equality, solidarity, respect for workers' rights and the environment and not allow the interests of the most powerful states and companies to be promoted.
in writing. i voted in favour of the scholz report because the strengthening of the european union's trade relations with the latin american countries is the result of the major democratic reforms in this geographical area and the improvement of the human rights protection framework. but we must ensure that future trade relations between the two regions do not interrupt this process and do not compromise european standards of quality, consumer safety and environmental protection for products imported into the eu. i also share the view that the commission should be more sensitive when concluding or extending trade agreements with countries where fundamental human rights are still being violated.
mr president, the explosion of interest in the european parliament on the part of america following the rejection of the original swift agreement has now faded into obscurity. but that doesn't mean we're going back to business as usual. it's not. the increased powers of the european parliament in the fields of the economy, energy, counter-terrorism and fundamental rights are not business as usual. the sense now prevailing in america that the european parliament matters is not business as usual, and for that we must also congratulate the american ambassador in brussels, mr kennard. it is not business as usual that we are faced with very important and crucial negotiations on issues such as those referred to by mrs reding, on which the european parliament supports the commission, as you have asked, commissioner. it is not business as usual that we as the european parliament have opened an liaison office in washington between parliament and congress. it is perhaps good that the initial noise has subsided because we can now, with calm and with the new structures we are setting up, develop a longterm, really strong relationship between the european parliament and the congress.
mr president, we support the joint resolution of the political groups. it is necessary, of course, to discuss the issues before the european union-united states and g20 meetings. the united states is our natural ally. but an alliance means parity, and therefore a real alliance can only exist if there are equal relations. we are called upon to cooperate more closely and institutionally, first of all in the promotion of democracy and human rights in the world, the knowledge and science society, security and stability in the world and the exchange of data which can and must only be done on an equal and reciprocal basis, as mrs reding has said. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action against the drug trade, and that the european union is able to take action against the drug trade. we are also called upon to cooperate in the management of crises and the resolution of conflicts and, finally, in the development of third countries. but while europe, mr president, is mainly supporting growth in third countries, this is not the case with the united states. the european union has a duty to help the countries of central and eastern europe to develop their economic and social cohesion, and to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the region.
in writing. the joint resolution once again demonstrates that the european parliament, like all eu institutions, is a serious threat to people's freedoms and democratic rights. the resolution uses the pretext of terrorism and the 'need for eu-us counter-terrorism cooperation' to justify the blanketing of all passengers travelling from the eu to the us, canada and australia. the european parliament has been using the rumours about alleged guarantees of personal data protection as an alibi to approve the conclusion of the eu-us agreement on the dossier of all passengers, which it has hypocritically pretended not to accept. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. no agreement and no guarantee can guarantee the protection of personal data once it is at the mercy of the intelligence services and law enforcement agencies of the united states and other countries. the kke condemns the unacceptable resolution and calls on the people to intensify their struggle against the eu, its anti-people and repressive policy, which crushes social, democratic and fundamental human rights.
member of the commission. - madam president, thank you. i think didier reynders will say so later. i would like to thank parliament for its extremely constructive attitude throughout the rather long duration of these negotiations, and the debate we have just had is a confirmation of this. mr klinz said earlier that there was no more transparency. i've always believed that transparency is the prerequisite for accountability for all financial services actors. and that's why, in fact, in this industry, we're putting together transparency, light on people who probably weren't really used to it. and i do not believe, and i say this to show my disagreement with mrs andreasen, that this transparency is a handicap to the competitiveness of the financial industry. i think it's the opposite. i said to you on 13 january that the financial industry has an interest in europe. it has a competitive advantage over other regions of the world. this is the first time that european rules have been introduced in this very important sector, as mr balz has pointed out. they will make a significant contribution to achieving a number of ambitious objectives with real progress, mr bullman used that word earlier to mark the work that has been done by your parliament alongside the council and the commission. progress is about better monitoring of systemic risks, it's about greater investor protection, as chair sharon bowles said. it's a significant increase in transparency in the private equity sector. mr hökmark stressed the importance of this sector. and finally, a genuine single market for alternative investment funds for institutional investors. mr kamall reiterated his concern, which i share, that there should be no discrimination. yes, there is no discrimination, there is simply a requirement, and i think that is right. finally, i would remind all those who hoped to go further that this is a compromise, a dynamic compromise. we are not in an ideal world, mrs regner said that word earlier. i did. a great deal of progress would probably have been desirable or desirable beyond the compromise you are about to vote on, but it is a dynamic compromise and this legislation may evolve in the coming years in the case of the revision clauses. i say to mr giegold and mr klute that there will be meetings, and we will return to the issues of passive marketing and the role of esma. mr karas has just said a word about it; mr goebbels rightly stressed the importance of the european securities and markets authority. mr goebbels, 72 specific powers, as you said earlier, in 11 different types, that is a real power that esma will have, and we owe a great deal of that to parliament. so i thank each and every one of you. i have just heard most, almost all the speakers, on behalf of all the groups, even those who are unlikely to vote for this text, pay tribute to the availability, the competence of your rapporteur, jean-paul gauzès, and the quality of the relations he has been able to establish. i do not think he will have time to take paternity leave, because there are many other things to do in the coming weeks, but in any case, i would like to thank the whole commission team who have worked and who are with me tonight, and i would like to personally join in the expressions of gratitude and thanks that have been sent to your rapporteur, mr gauzès, on behalf of the european commission, for the high quality of his work. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the council. - madam president, i will not repeat what mr barnier has just said, except to thank all those who have just spoken, both for supporting the text proposed to you and for making a number of remarks which show, nevertheless, that there is a substance in this text which is making progress at european level in the regulation of all these alternative funds. this is the first truly european regulation on this subject, as i said earlier. i think we have to realise that by strengthening the role of esma we are going in the right direction, but i have heard comments about passive marketing. we are taking a number of concrete steps in this respect, as is the case with private equity funds, with the logic of increasingly more information, indeed increasingly more transparency, including towards a number of workers in companies which can sometimes be the target of the intervention of these funds. i will just say two things in conclusion. the first is that when i hear both people who feel that we are not going far enough and others who feel that we should not have taken up regulation at all, i have a very belgian conviction that we are probably on the right track. if the compromise is criticized on both sides, it's because there's probably a pretty efficient logic to what we're doing. i just wanted to tell mr. bullmann that we've made progress on the supervisory architecture. we're doing it now on financial investments. we're going to do it on the hedge funds. we're going to do it on the financial conglomerates. in congratulating mr gauzès again, i told him earlier that we would also try to make progress on the credit rating agencies, and i would tell him that, on derivatives, the belgian presidency and the commission are both available to try to speed up the process. i have been informed that the report is due to be adopted by parliament's committee in march next year. if we have the opportunity to anticipate, we are available to try to move faster. in any case, do not hesitate in this matter. i am very, very pleased that we are reaching such an agreement on this kind of text. we will try to make further progress in the coming weeks to get more adopted. i thank you again. they are all the more sincere, mr. gauzès, since we will be working together again in the coming days. (applause) i would like to thank
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the statement by the commission on the single market act:
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the opportunity to debate with you this flagship initiative 'a union for innovation', and in particular this new concept of a european innovation partnership which is certainly a key element of the communication which the commission has just presented at the beginning of october. of course, at this stage the council is still busy looking into the subject and conclusions are being prepared for our competitiveness council on 26 november. as you will recall, the european council on 17 june completed the elaboration of the europe 2020 strategy and one of the main objectives set out in this context is, and i quote, 'to improve the conditions for research and development' in order in particular to raise the cumulative level of public and private investment in this sector to 3% of gdp. personally, i think it would have been difficult to do less than the 3% already included in the lisbon strategy and that it is now a matter of finding the means to achieve this. the commission's flagship initiative on an innovation union follows this broad objective and the belgian presidency has been diligent in tackling this major issue. our council had an initial informal exchange of views on this subject last july, followed by a formal exchange of views on 12 october, and this debate enabled the presidency to present a draft council conclusions which is currently being considered and which, as i said, is on the agenda of our competitiveness council on 25 and 26 november. i would stress that the presidency has ensured that the research and industry sectors work closely together on this issue, which has produced excellent results. we also held a joint council meeting last july, which should lead to joint conclusions at the end of november. the commission's communication and the work of the competitiveness council will also feed into the preparation of the debate on research and innovation which is due to take place at the european council by the end of the year. you will therefore understand that, pending the strategic impulses of our heads of state and government, i must, as president of the competitiveness council, remain rather cautious in my speeches. however, let me remind you that the subject of innovation, or rather the knowledge triangle in a broader sense (education-research-innovation), is obviously not entirely new, either to the council or to parliament. the council, in the general context of the european research area, regularly includes this subject on the agenda of the competitiveness council. i refer in particular to the council's vision for the european research area 2020 of december 2008, and more recently to the council conclusions entitled 'creating an innovative europe', adopted last may under the spanish presidency. i can also mention, in an exhaustive way, some important points from the council's point of view. first, initiatives should cover all forms of innovation in the public and private sectors. secondly, we must lay the foundations for more efficient funding lines for research, development and innovation. thirdly, public procurement has the largely untapped potential to support innovation in innovative products, processes and services. fourth, non-technological innovations, including design, services and cultural creativity, are also important factors. fifthly, the exploitation of research efforts requires the effective management and protection of intellectual property and the effective dissemination of scientific and technological innovations. finally, research and development policies and programmes and the instruments associated with them must be simplified and rationalised, as has been reiterated. and i welcome the very broad agreement with the position of the itre committee as presented in mrs carvalho's report. innovation partnerships should not add a dose of complexity, but should be part of a simplification process. the regional dimension is also essential for innovation. in this respect, european innovation policy should ensure that innovation actors, including small and medium-sized enterprises, receive appropriate support at regional level as well. the human factor is at the heart of research and innovation. europe needs to strengthen its capacity to retain its researchers and to attract talent from third countries. after these general considerations, i now wish to answer the four more specific questions you have raised. as regards the number of themes for innovation partnerships, although it has not yet decided, i think our council is quite unanimous in the fact that we must start with a pilot initiative. the commission has proposed to launch this pilot initiative on ageing in early 2011. the communication also mentions a number of other themes on which it would be prepared to table proposals in 2011, and some of you have taken up a number of these themes. and by definition, a pilot project can be started on an experimental basis and without necessarily waiting for all the conditions to be pre-defined. the selection of the topics for future partnerships is one of the major issues discussed in the council and, in this context, i would like to recall the exercise, launched by the council in 2008, of joint programming of research in europe in response to major societal challenges. at that time, criteria that will certainly be useful also in the context of innovation partnerships had already been set: the scale of the challenge at european level, effective engagement of stakeholders, european added value, the possibility of transforming the results of research into benefits for european citizens and for european competitiveness. i see a broad convergence between the previous council guidelines and the general conditions proposed by the commission in its communication. in addition, in the discussions we have had at this stage, my colleagues have often stressed the need for a bottom-up approach, particularly in terms of identifying the themes, simplicity, lightweight structures, the need to work with the private sector, in particular small and mediumsized enterprises, and the optimisation of existing financial instruments. i now turn to the timing and governance principles which are probably the most important and sensitive issues. the keywords will certainly be 'added value', 'consistency', 'flexibility' and 'lightness'. there can be no question of a single pre-established model. several initiatives have been taken to refine the concepts, including a seminar organised a few days ago, on 27 october, by the belgian presidency in collaboration with finland and the commission, and as regards the timetable, the notion of urgency is indeed present in the europe 2020 strategy. it is therefore also a factor in the initiatives which follow from it. the commission has made ambitious proposals to this end, but our resources are limited, and while remaining ambitious, we must ensure that we can control the process and learn the lessons in time. i would like to conclude, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with this idea of better governance of partnerships at national level. this is part of all the considerations of partnership governance, for which there is no pre-established model, let alone a single one. account must be taken of situations which differ objectively from one member state to another; the involvement of all stakeholders in the various member states is also needed: stakeholders at european, national and regional levels, including the public and private sectors. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced that research and innovation are not an option for europe, but an obligation if we are to achieve a sustainable outcome by preserving our social model and the sustainability of our environment. i therefore welcome the continuing interest of your parliament in these matters, and in particular your first intervention in this debate on the innovation plan. i think your contribution is all the more fundamental as the present context forces member states to make difficult choices where it seems to me essential to preserve research and innovation as an investment for the future, and i can assure you that i will inform the council of the content of this debate and i am at your disposal.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to draw your attention to the great opportunity that innovation partnerships offer for the economic and social development of the european union, which we so badly need, but also to the significant risk that misuse of this tool may further widen the innovation and research gap between the member states of the european union. i am referring in particular to the difficult economic conditions in various parts of europe, starting with my own country and making the same point as the honourable member, mr matias. the economic situation in too many countries in the european south and elsewhere is difficult, with the international monetary fund, the european central bank and the european commission demanding huge horizontal cuts in all government spending and with public investment in research almost zero. under these conditions, technological development and innovation are clearly being drastically curtailed as they appear to be the last priorities in national governments' rescue plans. the horizontal cuts in these countries, the brain drain they are suffering, the loss of skilled labour going abroad, and the underfunding of universities and research centres make the knowledge triangle we have just mentioned completely unbalanced. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. for example, according to the times higher education published two days ago, of the top 200 universities in the world, 82 are european. of these, 80 are in the northern countries and only 2, the universities of spain, are in the south. i would like to ask the european commission, the european union, the european parliament how we intend to deal with the emerging gap between the innovative northern europe and the european south.
member of the commission. − mr president, the proposal to transfer taiwan to the positive visa list was adopted by the commission on 5 july this year. taiwan is, as we all know, a well-developed and stable democracy. it meets all the necessary technical requirements. the proposal is a result of a periodic review of the visa list and based on suggestions coming from member states. the commission assesses a variety of conditions: irregular migration, public policy, public security, reciprocity, regional coherence and the external relations of the european union. we need to reinforce regional coherence in south-eastern asia. other similar developed third countries, such as hong kong, macao, japan, south korea and singapore, are already visa-free. in addition, a process has unarguably been set in motion regarding relations between taiwan and mainland china, which is also proven by the establishment of direct flights and the conclusion of an economic cooperation framework agreement between them. as was said by the rapporteur and mr kovatchev, the united kingdom, ireland, new zealand and south korea have already granted visa-free travel to taiwanese citizens, and canada is currently in the process of exempting taiwan from the visa obligation. any visa waiver granted to the citizens of taiwan should of course be reciprocated. taiwan has progressively eliminated visa requirements for nationals of a large majority of eu member states, and has committed itself to granting a full visa regime for all eu citizens. romanian, bulgarian and cypriot citizens will be free to travel to taiwan without a visa as from 11 november – which is tomorrow, so you can book your tickets! furthermore, taiwan will extend the allowed period for eu citizens to remain in taiwan to 90 days on the entry into force of the eu visa waiver. the proposal also covers the deletion of the northern mariana islands from the negative list, since the territory forms part of the us. visa freedom and visa liberalisation is a great way of bringing people together, closer to each other: students, researchers, ordinary people, the business community, researchers and others. this is a very important decision that we are about to take. procedurally, this is codecision – as you know – but i am glad to inform you that the council members have already expressed their very broad support for this. as i understand, and thanks to the work of the rapporteur mr díaz de mera and the shadow rapporteurs, there is also very strong support in this parliament so i hope there will be a good vote tomorrow. there was only one amendment to the commission proposal, proposed both in the council and in the european parliament, aiming to exclude the 60 000 so-called overseas taiwanese nationals. the rapporteur and member states in the council were of the view that these people need prior authorisation from taiwan to enter their own country. therefore, it would be a logical and reasonable step for the eu to exclude this category from the visa waiver. the commission accepts this amendment. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent support and cooperation on this file. i am sure that the full reciprocal visa waiver will give a boost to the very good relations between the eu and taiwan in various sectors, such as tourism and trade, and benefit all parties.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, first of all i should like to congratulate the rapporteur and all the colleagues who have worked on this report. their work is truly outstanding. the visa waiver for taiwanese is certainly a step in the right direction. firstly, it is positive that the legal obstacle of non-recognition of taiwan by all member states has been overcome; secondly, on the basis of a certain reciprocity, citizens of the member states of the european union will in future not be required to have a visa when entering taiwan, i.e. something similar to what we are doing for all 27 member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union has recently witnessed terrorist acts, such as the sending of trapped explosives from greece to embassies in various european union cities, and from yemen to various member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is therefore logical that when our fellow citizens in europe are informed that the european union is facilitating access to the european union for citizens of third countries, such as taiwan and others that we have previously approved, they wonder whether this poses a greater risk to their security. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to take this into account in his report. we know very well that we have the mechanisms to deal with any problem and to safeguard the safety of our fellow citizens. and that is exactly why we are making this decision. we have information exchange systems, we have the capability to deal with any problem. so i would like to conclude by saying that we are happy to make this decision. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to welcome the annual report and congratulate president caldeira and all the members of the court for their excellent work. allow me especially to thank mr o’shea for the excellent cooperation we had concerning the agencies. our role as a parliament is accountability towards the citizens, so we have to make sure that taxpayers’ money is used properly, transparently and effectively. i expect that the findings of the annual reports concerning the agencies, to be published later, will follow the same trend as in recent years. the situation is getting better, but there are still control systems to be improved, problems to be tackled and solutions to be found. in the current major economic and social crisis, the significance of monitoring has become more important than ever before, and we in parliament and the court of auditors are together committed to dealing with, and solving, the problems in order to achieve even better results.
madam president, i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her extremely effective work on such an important report. the report provides an important technical tool for financing and implementing energy projects that will help boost the economy in difficult times, complete the internal energy market and achieve the european union's 2020 climate and energy targets. the creation of the energy efficiency and renewable energy fund is particularly important, even with this small initial funding of 146 million. i am pleased that the european parliament remains firmly committed to promoting renewable energy and energy efficiency projects. finally, i would like to focus on the attention that must be paid to the balanced geographical distribution of future programmes so that all european countries can benefit. my country only got 1.5% of that for gas pipelines. i hope the distribution will be more equitable in the future.
madam president, there are two threats at the moment to world livestock and food. on the one hand we have the seed monopolies - and we have seen in this sector the mutations and their devastating effects in india. on the other hand, we have the games played by financial institutions with commodity prices. in 2008, we had the world's largest grain production. in 2008, which is absurd, if we don't explain it in terms of financial games, we had the biggest food crisis ever. a food crisis that has led to social unrest and the loss of many of our fellow men. we have to check these two things. we must strengthen local resources, ensure free access to seeds for farmers, lower prices for livestock farmers and regulate the operation of financial institutions.
in writing. the over-culturation of the financial system, its speculative and opaque role, was one of the causes of the economic crisis. the response to the crisis and to crises in general requires structural changes, a different way of operating and the avoidance of the injection of toxic products into the economy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. but neither the commission directive nor the european parliament report provides for effective supervision and control of the activities of hedge funds and private equity. with the many exceptions and conditions set out in the report for the supervision sought, the regime of speculation and lack of transparency is certain to continue. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. in the name of fighting terrorism, all citizens are potentially guilty of having their personal data recorded in violation of basic human rights and institutionally guaranteed guarantees of respect for them. the amendments proposed by the left euro group which would have improved things somewhat were unfortunately not accepted . that is why i voted against.
in writing. the european parliament, in a joint resolution adopted today, calls for the renegotiation of pnr agreements and the adoption of strict data transfer criteria to ensure passenger safety, but always with respect for the protection of passengers' personal data. the main objective is to collect, transmit and process pnr data in a restricted manner without using it for data mining and profiling.
in writing. i voted against the report. it is a very conservative approach to the demographic problem and to solidarity between generations. in many cases, such as extending working life almost indefinitely. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of measures to combat it. the problem of youth unemployment is growing. improving life expectancy and quality of life. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval.
in writing. the demographic problem makes lifelong learning as a product of intergenerational solidarity more relevant than ever. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. however, in the 2011 budget, increases in funding for lifelong learning programmes were meagre despite the declarations of strategy 2020 and despite the commitment of member states to invest in training for all citizens, regardless of age. the report recognises the need to create those tools which contribute to the continuing training of citizens and to strengthen those which already exist - such as the grundtvig and leonardo da vinci programmes. the resolution is moving in that direction and that is why i voted in favour of it.
commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate you on the excellent work you are doing in the case of haiti and on all that you have done for pakistan. we know you'll be there for us in any way we need you. the damage is really huge. we're talking over 1,000 dead, 15,000 sick, and the numbers are growing. the needs are enormous and we see that the money at your disposal is not enough. it is becoming increasingly clear that we really do need new financial instruments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need other financial instruments that can strengthen our efforts to meet the growing humanitarian needs. we must also look, commissioner, at what we can do to prevent the recurrence of the fact that people working for the un are transmitting diseases.
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you all for your engagement and discussion on a topic that is, unfortunately, going to be with us for quite some time to come. this is not an easy crisis to resolve. we have had some estimates about the scale of the problem over the coming months – including from our own experts – and i agree very much with those who said we need to deploy expertise from the european centre for disaster control in haiti. the estimates are that somewhere between half a million and 720 000 people will be infected before this wave of epidemics is over. the pan american health organisation estimate of 400 000 is a little lower but of the same order of magnitude. so we will have to mobilise. i agree with each and every one of you who spoke about immediate mobilisation and the need to help right now. let me make four points. the first is how we can best help. this is a time when we have to deploy true partner organisations and immediately give them the resources to act. we also have to call on the member states to provide in-kind assistance. since thursday, when i addressed the member states, we have been seeing support coming through, but more is needed in terms of healthcare professionals, water purification tablets and support for an awareness campaign, because – as many here have said – there is widespread misunderstanding of what this disease is and how it can best be treated. as a result, people die unnecessarily because they are scared to go to treatment centres: they are afraid of catching the disease there rather than being treated for it. secondly, a number of speakers have talked about the pledged money and what is happening with reconstruction in haiti. the pledge made by the commission has been honoured. the commission committed eur 460 million and is delivering according to the timetable which it announced, and the high representative and vice-president, cathy ashton, and commissioner piebalgs are about to take stock with member states on where we stand with the money we have promised to provide. i can assure you that this is going to be taken very seriously, because the reputation of the international community is at stake at a very difficult time. however – and this is my third point, which is a very important one – there is a limit to the absorptive capacity in haiti, which i believe i talked about with some of you. when i first arrived in haiti i thought that, terrible as this disaster was, it was not haiti’s worst problem. haiti’s biggest problem was the many decades of lack of development and the absence of a functional state which, among other things, also means the absence of a functional health service. i saw people in camps queuing in front of a doctor, not because they were sick, but because they had never seen a doctor in their lives and were taking advantage of a health service being offered in the camps. this total lack of the skills and capabilities of a functional state creates problems that are making this epidemic worse. we are still struggling to get the government to authorise space for the disposal of dead bodies – without which the epidemics can, of course, spread further – and to dislodge latrines so that sanitation can improve. so i cannot stress strongly enough how critical it is for us to understand that haiti’s problems are not easy to resolve, because at the heart of this problem is these decades of lack of development and the absence of a functional state. a question was asked about the elections and whether they should still be held. the haitian authorities prefer to stick to the timetable. it is difficult for me to give an answer. i have not yet been to haiti, but my feeling is that cancelling or postponing the elections might actually destabilise a very difficult situation. there may be something to be gained by holding the elections but, as i have said, this is based on what i have heard, not on what i have seen. my fourth point concerns engagement. you called for the commission to be very directly engaged: we are and will continue to be so. baroness ashton will very probably be in haiti tomorrow, and i am planning to go myself because at this point, mobilisation, good coordination and, frankly, also giving hope to people there and to our own staff are important. our own people are struggling with a very difficult situation: they are in places where the haitian health officials become scared by the epidemic and just leave, and they then have to handle a massive increase in cases. what we need to do now is to make sure that we retain a calm presence and try to steer the course for people which gives them the most hope. one member spoke about the haitian people being very resilient. they are, and they deserve all our help at this very difficult time.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the joint debate on:- report by mrs izaskun bilbao barandica, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) on a long-term plan for the management of the stock of blue whiting in the bay of biscay and on fishing activities in that stock [cod/0170/2009] [cod/01809-07-0057 (cod/0112/2009) ] (a7-0299/2010) and- report by mr pat the cope gallagher, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of a multiannual plan for western sandeel and the fisheries exploiting that stock in the bay of biscay and on the long-term plan for the management of that stock in the bay of biscay and on fishing activities in that stock [cod/01809-0170-07-0057 (cod/01909) ] (cod/01809-035) and on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) on the european parliament and council regulation (ec) amending regulation (ec) no 2009/157/2009 concerning the conservation of wild and migratory species in the waters of the gulf of biscay [cod/01809-015/07] (com (2010) 0155-0185 final report by mr joão marques, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and the council regulation (ec) on the proposal for a long-regulation of the european parliament and council regulation (ec) concerning the management of the fisheries of the stock of blue whiting stock in the gulf of sandeel of sandeel of sound in the sound in the bay of biscay and on the sound (cod/07-029/07-015/07-029
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but behind them is a clear mandate: the european parliament asks the other institutions, the commission and the council, whenever we decide on our fish stocks, on how we fish, to respect scientific data. it is not possible, when we are deciding how to catch each species of fish, to negotiate in a political way. it is not possible to have a political negotiation in the council or in parliament on matters which must be judged by scientific data. it is only on the basis of this data that we can know what is left over in our seas, what we can catch without irreversible impacts on both marine life and fisheries. the reform of the common fisheries policy is now upon us. what we are asking you to do with these reports is to move forward boldly in reforming the common fisheries policy, respecting this very principle: respect for scientific data, in order to take decisions that will ensure a sustainable future for our seas and fisheries.
madam president, the new nato strategic doctrine, adopted at the lisbon summit, marks a new era in the alliance's efforts to meet the new challenges. it is important in this context to recognise the uniqueness of the alliance's partnership with the european union, as well as the need for a more coherent approach to all aspects of european security. in any event, cooperation between the two agencies must be characterised by transparency, complementarity and respect for the autonomy of each. it is particularly important that we should work in synergy and avoid overlapping, especially in political missions, which would be a great waste of manpower and energy for both the union and nato member states. and this is key to efficiency, but also to saving resources. the way in which institutional cooperation between the two agencies will be safeguarded, the creation of a reliable consultation mechanism which will determine in good time the way and means of joint action, are very important issues. i would like to ask for a thorough discussion of this matter.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the electoral rise of groups and parties of the intolerant, xenophobic and very often racist far right has marked political developments in many member states, including sweden. it's a sign we can't ignore. the unprecedented economic crisis and the growing immigration problem are converging in a poisonous mixture that feeds extremes and extremism. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the union, and that the european parliament is able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the union. they must exhaust their capacity for consultation and coordination in order to deal more effectively with specific problems, such as migration, which are beyond the capabilities of each of them individually. the european parliament, madam president, must take up a new and strong joint initiative against xenophobia and racism in the europe of crisis.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have the honour to speak in this debate on behalf of lady ashton, vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. first of all, mr president, i should like to thank the european parliament for its constant interest in the subject of women, peace and security and to remind you - as you obviously know - that parliament was the first institution, just one month after the adoption of resolution 1325, to advocate its implementation by means of a resolution within this institution. ten years later, we can see that progress has been made. we now have a significantly strengthened international framework, in particular through the adoption of resolutions 1888 and 1889 in 2009. the appointment of the first un special representative on violence against women in armed conflict was a significant milestone. in addition, there are currently more than 20 national plans worldwide. however, the situation remains and the reality shows that the protection of women in conflict situations and their participation in peacekeeping and reconstruction processes are falling short of commitments and needs on the ground. violence against women and girls in conflict, and in particular sexual violence, continues to devastate many lives, with complete impunity in too many cases. the european union is strongly committed to the implementation of resolution 1325 and subsequent resolutions. today we have a strong european union policy on women, peace and security, covering all aspects of the union's external relations, from crisis management to humanitarian aid and development cooperation. i would like to mention a few concrete achievements. one of the actions is the exchange of good practice. to this end, experts from the institutions of the european union and the member states regularly participate in a task force. this process has led to an increase in the number of programmes at national level. ten member states now have a national action plan and two others are in preparation. the european union has a number of programmes that address the needs of women and girls in conflict and post-conflict situations, such as funding for medical services for victims of sexual violence. in less than two years, the programme has funded projects in 67 countries, totalling over eur 300 million. the european union has started to use a system to monitor gender aspects in these development cooperation programmes. the union has gender advisers or contact points in each of its 13 common security and defence policy missions, as well as gender contact points in more than 80 union delegations. we are currently finalising a report drawing lessons from the integration of gender and human rights issues into the common security and defence policy. the european union also works closely with civil society to promote women's participation in peace and security. in 2011, we are planning specific projects to support women's networks in crisis-affected countries, with an estimated budget of €2 million. several union delegations held open days to mark the 10th anniversary of resolution 1325 and to meet with local women's groups, for example in kosovo, bosnia and herzegovina and iraq. in mid-october, the european union and the african union organised a civil society seminar in addis ababa to make recommendations for joint eu-african union actions. and as regards renewed and measurable commitments, we envisage developing, before the end of the year, standard elements of training on gender human rights, children's rights to be used for training staff for common security and defence policy missions, developing local strategies for 2013 to implement resolution 1325 in development cooperation in at least 60% of countries in conflict or post-conflict, and finally reporting regularly on the implementation of the union's commitments on women, peace and security, using the 17 indicators that were adopted in july 2010. the first report is being finalised. on 26 october the european union took part in a debate in the security council on the tenth anniversary of resolution 1325. the belgian presidency had previously organised three events at ministerial, high-level and expert level in brussels, new york and geneva to raise awareness and formulate recommendations. the european union therefore strongly advocated the strengthening of international monitoring of resolution 1325, in particular by highlighting the set of indicators developed by the secretary-general. the european union therefore now calls for the rapid and operational implementation of these indicators.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank the belgian presidency of the council for its comments on this subject. the commission fully supports what the council representative has just said and i would like to add three specific points. first of all, i would like to say that i fully agree with what the president-in-office of the council has said: there is clear progress with more than 20 national action plans being implemented worldwide, in addition to the appointment of the first un special representative on violence against women in armed conflict. the second point i wanted to make to you all is that we in the commission believe that more work needs to be done on preventing violence against women and girls in conflict, and in particular sexual and gender-based violence, which continues to happen and destroys the lives of many people. and thirdly, the european union must set an example by implementing resolution 1325 and the resolutions which build on it. we need to continue to pay attention to the needs of women and girls affected by armed conflict and also in post-conflict situations, through programmes that fund, for example, the provision of medical services for survivors of sexual and gender-based violence, through working in tandem with civil society to promote women's participation in peace and security building, and, of course, working closely with the united nations in the development of the indicators that the secretary-general has developed. the european union must also take other steps, for example, the vice-president of the commission and high representative, catherine ashton, has appointed the first female european union special representative for sudan, mrs rosalind marsden.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr president, it is ten years since the united nations security council resolution 1325 on women, peace and security. and it's an important anniversary, more timely than ever, because women, like children, are still the biggest victims of conflict. the thousands of cases of rape in war zones prove that rape and sexual abuse are systematically used as a weapon of war to humiliate and demoralize the enemy. in many cases soldiers, guided by their superiors, systematically commit rape, which, if public, inflicts an even greater blow on the enemy. victims of these practices, usually women, are stigmatized, rejected or even murdered by their own community in an attempt to restore honor. we must all fight this battle together. we must put an end to this disgrace to humanity, these war crimes. we must also increase controls everywhere, and among the blue-collar workers themselves, because their own responsibilities, direct or indirect, are also great. the commission is also proposing to introduce a new system of penalties for those who commit such acts. it takes training, control, rigor and a clear message. finally, we must show as an international community that we mean what we say. women, as resolution 1325 says, can and should participate equally in the promotion of peace and security. the aim of all of us must be to empower women with access to international courts, with programmes for their economic, social and psychological reintegration. their emancipation and protection is the necessary condition for ending the use of sexual violence as a weapon of war.
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am of course in agreement with parliament on a great many points. how can we not agree, in particular with the comments by mr juvin and mr tarabella, that the creation of the european external action service should be a major opportunity to strengthen the union's policy on women, peace and security? in the process of setting up the service, the ongoing challenge of ensuring greater representation of women at all levels, including staff, and especially at the highest level, must be recognised. lady ashton is very clear about that. it has taken steps in this direction, for example by appointing the first female eu special representative for sudan, ms rosalind marsden. in september, it appointed 29 people to senior delegation posts, including 7 women heads of delegation, representing a 50% increase in the number of women at this level. while the union is making significant efforts to strengthen its capacity for women's participation, peace and security, we believe it is important to take steps to raise awareness in other organisations and countries. this goes hand in hand with specific training activities. many of you have spoken on this point too. under the european instrument for democracy and human rights, the union supports the united nations in implementing resolutions on women, peace and security in particularly affected countries and regions such as pakistan, afghanistan, georgia, armenia, azerbaijan and the ferghana valley, which extends over uzbekistan, kyrgyzstan and tajikistan. finally, the european union continues to believe in the importance of strengthening accountability at the global level. the union considers that the security council should establish a working group to review progress in the implementation of resolution 1325 and make recommendations to the council to address challenges and shortcomings and to accelerate the implementation of this resolution. the union therefore called on the security council to redouble its efforts to combat impunity. targeted and graduated measures should be imposed against any party to a conflict responsible for serious violations of women's rights. i am convinced that the european parliament will continue to support the efforts of the union and the member states in this area.
i have received six motions for resolutions from the respective political groups on this subject. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 25 november at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the report by mr bernhard rapkay, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on state aid facilitating the closure of non-competitive coal mines (com ((2010) 0372 c7-0296/2010 - 2010/0220 ((nle)) (a7-0324/2010)
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i repeat what i said in my opening statement: the commission and i take very good note of all the arguments put forward here by all of you and we will take very good note of parliament's position once mr rapkay's report has been voted. i think that a distinction must be made - and this has been made in virtually all interventions - between coal as a primary energy source and, a different matter, the regulation which should regulate public aid for coal extraction from uncompetitive coal mines. our proposal, which we are debating today, which the council will be debating in the coming weeks, is about this second aspect, about non-competitive coal mining and not about the use of coal, which is another debate that we have had and will continue to have in the european union, of course. our position is that the non-competitive extraction of coal, which requires the continued use of public subsidies, must be stopped within a given period. that position is clear, it is not the first time it has been expressed - as some of you may remember - it comes from ancient times. the problem is that the deadlines that were set have not been respected by all. our proposal is to ensure that these deadlines are met once and for all. we are at a point where, unlike the environment in which we have debated in the past, we must take into account the aid to coal mining. two additional elements must be taken into account: firstly, the challenge of climate change, which we have discussed on numerous occasions and for which the european union has very precise objectives; and secondly, the consequences on our public budgets, on national public budgets, of the crisis and the debt generated as a result of the crisis, which puts even more pressure on public finances. but these are not the only elements to be considered. we must also consider - and you have done so in virtually all your speeches - the time limit within which public aid for the extraction of coal under non-competitive conditions must be abolished. and there is a debate, there is one in this parliament - we have heard different positions - there is one in the council - and we will wait for the council meeting at the beginning of december to see what the council's position is - and there has undoubtedly been one in the commission and there will be one again. as you know - mr langen said earlier - this is a council regulation, parliament's opinion is very important, but the treaty says that in the case of state aid, the regulation is a council regulation. the council shall adopt its position. at the moment, at the last coreper meeting, it has adopted a majority position in favour of a deadline for the final abolition of such aid of 2018, which is longer than the deadline set in the commission proposal, but our rules also state that, unless the council decides unanimously, the commission proposal cannot be legally amended. it is practically certain that the council will not decide unanimously, whatever its decision, but the commission will listen very carefully to the council's position, just as it is listening very carefully to the arguments of parliament and will listen to the position that parliament sets out in its vote. and on the basis of this analysis of the respective positions of the council, in accordance with its prerogatives under the treaty, and also of parliament, on the basis of the debate on the rapkay report, the commission will adopt its final position. i should simply like to say that the commission does not share the arguments in favour of unlimited aid for the extraction of uncompetitive coal and to point out that, if there is no new coal regulation as a result of the commission's proposal, what would come into force as from 1 january 2011 is the general state aid regime, which is considerably stricter than the commission's proposal or the proposal that will emerge from the debates in the council or the opinion that will emerge from this parliament.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m. today. (the sitting was suspended for a few minutes) written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is voting.
this is precisely the point which was discussed yesterday and the debate is closed.
mr gallagher, in other words you are invoking rule 156(5), and you are taking over amendment 29 as in the voting list, which means that we have to vote on it.
in writing. the report on the annual report of the european central bank highlights the european parliament as the most consistent advocate and supporter of the capitalist attack on workers across the eu. in essence, it repeats the anti-people decisions of the eu summit in october to create a supervised bankruptcy mechanism, tougher conditions in the stability pact and its strict implementation, sanctions on member states that do not comply with these conditions. it welcomed the provision of eu and member state-wide cash in the financial and other sectors of capital to support the continuation of profitability in the context of the capitalist crisis. it supports all the barbaric measures against the working class and the popular strata implemented by the bourgeois governments in all eu member states. to "get" the eu out of the capitalist economic crisis, the political representatives of capital propose to accelerate the capitalist restructuring in all the member states in order to maintain the profitability of the monopoly groups, at the expense of the workers who are called upon to pay the burdens of the crisis. ireland is the most recent and certainly not the last example of the tragic consequences for workers of the development of the domination of monopolies and their profitability.
in writing. the ecb's annual report refers to the bank's response to and exit strategy from the crisis during 2009. on the other hand, in its report - which i voted in favour of - the european parliament attaches particular importance to the gradual withdrawal of the exceptional ecb measures implemented in 2008 as a result of the financial crisis (interest rates at 1%, increased liquidity in the markets and an inflation rate below 2%). this is particularly important for greece and other euro area countries, as in these cases the economic recession not only did not end in 2009 but developed into a severe fiscal crisis. any change in the ecb's stance should therefore take account of the new data and be carried out in close cooperation with the member states currently affected by the debt crisis.
in writing. the european parliament's report on the development of the eu's political-military capabilities highlights the repugnant imperialist face of the eu and the political representatives of capital. it is a macabre manual for the implementation of the eu's imperialist interventions, for the commission of crimes against peoples. it openly subscribes to nato's "new doctrine" of "linking internal and external security", calling for the eu to organise and design its political and military forces so that it can intervene directly with combined political and military inside in every corner of the planet, in the name of so-called "crisis management" and "peace-keeping". without wavering, the political representatives of the monopolies are proposing a series of measures to make the eu's military missions more effective, in order to strengthen its position in the inter-imperialist competition, which is raging with unprecedented intensity, both at the global level and within the eu. permanent eu operations centre, 'single crisis centre', establishment of 'unified police units', better use of the european police force, establishment of 'crisis response policies teams', closer cooperation with nato, deployment of 'eu political capabilities' to nato, alignment of eu 'capability development' with nato standards.
in writing. the stockholm programme aims to ensure the fundamental rights of citizens in an area of freedom, security and justice. however, differences in the legal systems of the member states create obstacles to the development of european legislation. the european parliament has therefore voted in favour of the resolution proposing the convergence and harmonisation of civil, commercial, family and private international law, as it focuses on cooperation between the different legal systems of the member states through: • developing a common european judicial culture; • training and educating judges, prosecutors and other judicial staff with a view to mutual understanding of the legal systems of other member states and the resolution of cross-border disputes; • creating a regular forum for judges in cross-border cases to consider possible difficulties or legal disputes with a view to building mutual trust; • establishing a european contract law; • cooperation between the courts of the member states in the taking of evidence in civil or commercial matters.
mr president, your recent joint statement after the eu-us summit was the first statement in a long time where the commission exhibited gravitas, optimism, power and solidarity, and also coherence. here we have the paradox of not finding common ground on the budget. if we want europe to be an international power, as we are indeed, we do not have the luxury not to have a budget. this is what i wanted to say, and keep up the good work.
in writing. the intransigent stance of a small minority of member states is essentially a clear refusal to lay the foundations for timely and effective solutions to basic needs of european citizens now or at any time in the immediate future. we must take a responsible approach to matters which concern european citizens. let us not forget that, in addition to the new eu responsibilities after lisbon, member states are constantly proposing and adopting new policies and strategies, such as europe 2020, which the eu is called upon to implement, and on the other hand they are reluctant to allocate the funds for their implementation, condemning them to failure before they are even implemented. i would also like to stress that the ep is not asking for an increase in expenditure or for more powers than those provided for in the lisbon treaty. parliament is clear that the eu must have sufficient resources at its disposal to implement policies that are seamlessly complementary to member states' efforts to boost employment, investment and overall economic growth. the parliament's position is that the eu budget is not part of the crisis but the response by investing in critical sectors to deal with it.
on behalf of the efd group. – mr president, since creation of jobs is one of the priorities in the programme we have, i would like to draw the commission’s attention to a new era of emigration from southern europe. but i am afraid nobody in the commission is listening to me. already in greece we are seeing huge numbers of young skilled and highly skilled workers emigrate to australia, canada and the emirates. the same thing is happening in ireland. on one hand, germany has announced that it has a skilled labour shortage. what i would like to say is that germany does not have to import skilled labour from third countries. member states that face economic problems could provide skilled labour to germany. i would very much like to propose an initiative, to be taken up with the commission, developing the notion of added value. why not adopt a labour market with european added value? within the member states we have to face supply and demand. we have to strengthen europe with a european skilled labour force. this is missing in the programme and i strongly propose it.
member of the commission. − mr president, today there are 23 million unemployed people across the european union, corresponding to an unemployment rate of about 10%. this situation emerged as a consequence of the financial and economic crisis and we have to face dramatic consequences, but this situation did not deter the european commission from proposing ambitious objectives in the europe 2020 strategy, and the european union has set ambitious targets to meet in the not too distant future. we have a headline target for an employment rate of 75% for men and women by 2020, and today the commission adopted yet another flagship initiative under the europe 2020 strategy: an ‘agenda for new skills and jobs’ outlining how we intend to make progress towards full employment. it is complementary to the flagship ‘youth on the move’ adopted in september. both should contribute to reach our 2020 employment and education targets. yes, the crisis has wiped out millions of jobs. yes, we face increasing international competition, but that is no excuse to shy away from taking action. on the contrary, it is a call to act and shape our future. creating more and better jobs is in our hands. employment policy is largely a member state responsibility but, as eu policy-makers, we in the commission together with the european parliament and the social partners must do our bit. we must enable everyone who can work to actually do so. we need to allow the workforce to generate new ideas and set up new businesses. we need to ensure that the younger generation can benefit from the social model we have developed. we need better job quality and working conditions for all employees. an agenda for new skills and jobs sets out action in four areas: functioning of labour markets; skills; job quality and working conditions; and job creation. the agenda proposes 13 specific actions at eu level to be carried out in partnership with governments, social partners and civil society. first, we have to make sure our labour markets function better by carrying out labour reforms that ensure the necessary flexibility and security. one of the lessons learned in the past two years is that flexicurity policies have contributed to weathering the crisis. we now propose to discuss with member states and social partners all components of flexicurity and how to improve them, building on the eu common principles of flexicurity. the agenda points to flexible, but reliable, contractual arrangements, comprehensive lifelong learning, active labour market policies, and modern social security systems. there are highly segmented labour markets in the eu where employees with permanent safe contracts co-exist, and sometimes work side by side in the same workplace doing the same job, with employees who live under temporary contracts with few social safeguards and slim prospects of a permanent job. to improve the situation and reduce existing disparities, one possible avenue for discussion offered by the agenda adopted today could be to extend the use of open-ended contractual arrangements. these would have a sufficiently long probation period and a gradual increase in protection rights, access to training, lifelong learning and career guidance for all employees. over time, this would allow employees to acquire full rights while firms would have sufficient, but decreasing, flexibility during the probation period, removing the inhibiting elements that often prevent employees from taking on new recruits for the long-term. second, we need to equip people with the right skills for the jobs on the market today and in the future. we know that even now some employers are struggling to fill vacancies because they cannot find people with the right skills. this reveals not only that we need more skills and the right skills, but also that there are persistent mismatches in the eu labour market between available skills and needs. in the foreseeable future, there could be even more serious shortages of workers than today – ict practitioners, doctors, nurses, researchers, as well as people with the green skills to help us move towards a greener economy. ‘new skills and jobs’ proposes practical tools in this respect. we will bring more transparency on skill needs and promote better matching, namely through the eu skills panorama to help people see more easily which skills are most needed now and in the future. commissioner vassiliou will be able to say more about this. what is clear is that we must work closely with all relevant stakeholders to bridge the gap between education and training and the working world. third, we propose to improve the quality of jobs and ensure better working conditions. the eu has very ambitious legislation in this field which needs now to be reviewed. experience with implementation tells us when and where there is room for improvement. we need to make sure the legislation works better, that it is in line with new working patterns and new technology and that it is easier to understand and apply for people and businesses. in practice, we propose to review the working time directive and make a legislative proposal aimed at improving the implementation of the posting of workers directive and we will also make proposals in the area of occupational health and safety. in addition to reviewing eu legislation, the agenda on new skills and jobs proposes an integrated approach that includes so-called soft instruments from codes of conduct and recommendations to implementing guidelines, benchmarking and exchange of good practices. i look forward to discussing these issues with you and i am confident that together with the european parliament, the member states and the social partners, we can make them work better. last, but certainly not least, we need to create more jobs. job creation is needed for growth, but there are too many obstacles in the way. we propose to improve the framework conditions for job creation, especially in fast-moving and r&d-intensive sectors by reducing the administrative burden and taxes on labour, and by helping entrepreneurs. we also propose action to foster entrepreneurship and support people who are in the process of setting up a business or have done so recently. in this respect, one can never reiterate too often the importance of the new micro-finance facility as a tool to help people set up their own businesses. the european union has plenty of talent. let us make sure that the ideas and innovations around lead to the creation of quality jobs. today the commission has presented its priorities on how to make progress towards full employment. an agenda for new skills and jobs can make a real difference if we all work together. i call on you all to play your part in moving forward in our endeavour to reach full employment in europe.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am particularly glad to present, together with commissioner andor, this new flagship initiative ‘an agenda for new skills and jobs’. better education and training is fundamental for equipping people with the skills they need to find work, stay in work and prepare themselves for the jobs of the future. this is the reason why we need to invest in people and in their capacity to innovate, to create new enterprises and new jobs. without significant and sustained investment in high skill levels and education, our economies will struggle to emerge from the crisis quickly. skills are at the heart of europe 2020 for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. this is the reason why two flagship initiatives, ‘youth on the move’ and ‘an agenda for new skills and jobs’, have important education and training as well as employment dimensions. today, with this initiative, we want to reflect on how education and training can contribute to reaching a 75% employment rate by 2020. jobs occupied by highly qualified people are expected to rise by 16 million between now and 2020, while those held by low-skilled workers will decline by around 12 million over the same period. there are more than 80 million adults in europe hampered by severe deficiencies in basic skills. urgent action is therefore needed, especially on the education side. firstly, we need to recognise life-long learning as one of the crucial pillars of flexible security strategies in order to make sure that our labour market functions better, as commissioner andor has said. we all agree on the diagnosis. skills can secure and improve transitions in the labour market, but life-long learning is not yet a reality in europe. upgrading skills should not be a luxury for the highly qualified. it is a necessity for all. the low qualified have very few opportunities to participate in continuous training in all member states. this should change with the joint effort of all partners, governments, employers and citizens. secondly, we need to provide people with the right skills for employment. europe needs not only to upgrade the skills of people already in the labour market but also to ensure that people get, from the start, the right mix of skills to adapt and evolve in a fast-changing society. we need, firstly, to forecast better the skills needed in the labour market. with that aim in mind we will present an eu skills panorama which will not only tell us what skills employers are looking for now but will also forecast what skills will be needed in the future. in order to prepare our young people for entering the labour market and to adapt and work in jobs that may not even exist yet, we need to focus on education systems delivering the right mix of skills. specific emphasis should be put on basic skills in reading, mathematics and science. it is of the utmost importance to fight especially against low educational achievement and early school leaving. this is the reason why i decided to launch a high-level group on literacy in january. moreover, in order to develop a knowledge-based society, we need our children to be better at science, maths and technology. but we also want to focus our effort on the acquisition of transversal skills, which are crucial for employability: for example language skills, digital literacy or entrepreneurship, and initiative-taking skills. it is, i believe, equally important that we act in order to ensure that we develop the competences which the jobs of the future will require, for example in renewable energy, green building, smart transport and e-health, just to name a few. finally, even in times of crisis and high unemployment rates, some employers are reporting difficulties in recruiting. the agenda calls, therefore, for better matching of people’s skills and job opportunities and capitalising on europe’s potential. to this end i will propose a european skills passport, which will enable citizens to record their skills in a clear and comparable way. this will build on the popular europass cv. my last point is that neither education nor employment alone can deliver the right mix of skills. we must seek new forms of cooperation and partnership with education and training providers, business and other stakeholders, including trade unions and public employment services. mr president, honourable members, with europe 2020 we set our targets and our aspirations. now is the time to make progress towards our aspirations and to determine our reform strategy. the agenda for new skills and jobs explains how europe can contribute to reaching our targets. the way out of the crisis is to develop a competitive, knowledge-based economy in europe providing more and better jobs in europe.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr president, i was very pleased to hear the two commissioners' comments. in times of crisis, and of crisis, we need vision. the two reports have given us a vision. they're ambitious. they gave four objectives which i think every european citizen wants to support. but - and there is always a "but" to every good thing - i want to stress the issue of safety first. flexibility and security must go hand in hand and our view is that security must be a priority. the issue of education and training is very fundamental because, as commissioner andor very rightly pointed out, not only do we need new skills, but we also need to guide old skills to where they need to be. there are the business issues. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i would like to conclude by referring to the very nice thing that the commissioner from basle said: a european passport for skills. but then i immediately think of posted workers and i think and ask: if i have a highly skilled passport and i come from country a and i go to work in country b, will i have solved the problem of my employment relationship? we will stand by your side, watch and fight with you.
in writing. – according to the joint statement of the november eu-us summit, job creation is a priority in the euroatlantic context. the commission should be alert, however, to the increasing phenomenon of external migration that is being recorded in greece; young, skilled and highly skilled members of the labour force are emigrating to canada, australia and the emirates. it seems that the same process has started in ireland, as well. on the other hand, germany has announced that it needs skilled labour. there is no reason for germany to import such labour from third countries. it could collaborate with the southern member states to employ a skilled european labour force. is the commission willing to initiate a sensible employment policy among the member states supporting the european labour market with a european labour force?
member of the commission. − mr president, two months ago the commission presented the ‘youth on the move’ flagship initiative as part of the europe 2020 strategy. this sends a clear signal that the commission has a special concern for young people. ‘youth on the move’ has three objectives: to improve education, increase employment and foster mobility for young people across the european union. it will involve action to make education and training more relevant to young people’s needs, encourage them to take advantage of eu grants to study or train in another country and overcome obstacles to entering and making progress in the labour market. the two labour market problems which the honourable member has raised, namely traineeships and labour market segmentation, are among the topics ‘youth on the move’ takes up. i am grateful for the opportunity to explain the commission’s views and aims regarding these two topics. i want to stress, first and foremost, that both fall within the member states’ national competence in terms of practical implementation. let me start with traineeships, or internships as they are also sometimes called. i know that the european parliament regards these as very important, as ms turunen’s report earlier this year showed. the underlying problem is that employers are reluctant to recruit young workers with little or no practical experience. this is why acquiring first work experience through traineeships has grown in importance for young people over the years. however, they must be of high quality and have clear learning objectives. in addition, they should not replace normal jobs or probation periods at the start of a work contract. the commission intends to develop a quality framework for traineeships but, as a first step, we need to improve our knowledge in this area. the commission will soon be launching a study to gain an overview of existing legal arrangements and practice across the member states. this is part of a pilot project involving measures for employment maintenance, for which parliament has provided the commission with an extra budget for 2010. a second set of issues is labour market segmentation. young people are in a difficult position in terms of job security. too many have short-term contracts, often alternating with unemployment, and many young people – even those who are well qualified – have little chance of getting more stable contracts. we need to tackle labour market segmentation as a matter of urgency, in particular because it affects young people and their employment prospects most and because it endangers the future competitiveness of the european economy. a report on employment in europe, to be released by the commission in a few days, finds that temporary workers are paid 14% less and receive less training than workers on permanent contracts. this has a negative impact on productivity. this applies to young people especially. those with temporary jobs account for 40% of the total, against 13% among the overall working-age population. this means that young people bear the brunt of adjustment. in addition, young people are experiencing more and more difficulties in getting into the labour market. the percentage of young people who are not in education, employment or training ranges from about 4% in denmark and the netherlands to 16 to 20% in italy, cyprus and bulgaria. reducing labour market segmentation is first and foremost the responsibility of the member states. the commission has identified this as one of the priorities the member states should focus on in line with the common flexicurity principles under eu 2020 and the european employment strategy. in practical terms, the commission proposes that member states with segmented labour markets should consider introducing an open-ended single contract that provides for a sufficiently long probation period and a gradual increase in protection in place of the current legal disparities between permanent and temporary contracts. the youth employment framework under ‘youth on the move’ gives guidance on how policy makers, stakeholders and institutions can make progress in this area. closer policy coordination under the european semester, which we are currently preparing with the member states, will offer the right framework for stimulating the development of policy and reforms that will benefit young people.
i am very grateful to you for your reply, commissioner. today i read in the european commission's communications on the adoption of the agenda for new skills and jobs. today's communications mention, among other things, the decision to promote open unilateral contracts, the so-called 'open single contract', which aims to replace the various types of temporary and permanent contracts. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a good one. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
vice-president of the commission. − unfortunately, given that the negotiations on the programme that has been requested are ongoing during these days and hours, i cannot go into details. what i can tell mr mitchell is that these restructuring plans for the financial institutions in ireland, and in general the programme to finance the financial needs of ireland at these difficult times, will hopefully have the positive outcome of putting an end to this very difficult and challenging situation in order to put the irish economy back on the path of recovery and sustainable growth, as was the case in the past. ireland was one of the best examples of economic success in the euro area and in the eu. this is the way to tell irish taxpayers that their money which is now being used for this restructuring, together with financing that hopefully will come after the adoption of the programme from the two european mechanisms, plus the imf cooperation in this programme, will be returned to them as the positive result of a successful solution to the present irish problem. i cannot go into the details. i also ask for your understanding on this. what i can say is that there are other financial institutions, other irish financial institutions, under the restructuring plans being negotiated, or that have been analysed by the commission. you have seen our state aid rules competences. in the case of bank of ireland, we adopted a positive decision on the restructuring plan. in the case of the allied irish bank, we are also negotiating the conditions of the restructuring plan. in the case of two building societies, ebs and inbs, we are also considering the restructuring of these financial institutions. i have to say that in two cases, the anglo irish bank and the inbs building society, we are working on a winding-down scenario. in the other cases, the restructuring will hopefully put those financial institutions in the market in better conditions, in viable conditions, after their restructuring is decided and implemented.
member of the commission. - the mr president, the commission fully agrees with the honourable member on the great importance of transnational mobility of artists and cultural professionals. we are also working to remove the obstacles to this mobility. these efforts include social security coordination, visa regulations for artists from third countries, taxation and, of course, improved information on mobility issues. cultural experts discuss ways of promoting mobility in working groups involving member states and cultural sector representatives with a view to implementing the objectives of the european agenda for culture. through the culture programme 2007-2013, the commission supports projects and activities that promote the transnational mobility of people working in the field of culture, encourage the transnational circulation of artistic and cultural works and enhance intercultural dialogue. in 2009, around 80% of the projects funded by the commission focused on the circulation of cultural works and the mobility of cultural professionals. the commission is of course still making sure, as i said, that access to the programme is facilitated. the programme guide, the timetable, i.e. 2008-2013, good examples of projects and the cultural contact points in each country all contribute to facilitating access. the experience gained to date will be used to develop procedures for the future culture programme. following an initiative voted by parliament, the commission also implemented pilot projects to encourage the mobility of artists in both 2008 and 2009. the aim of these projects is to enable european artists to expand their activities and reach new audiences, as well as to exchange experiences and learn from each other in order to develop their careers. the results of these pilot projects will contribute to the work of the future culture programme and, of course, to the work of the member states' expert groups under the open method of coordination. in the long term, all of this will help to create a common european consciousness among the citizens of the european union.
mr president, i thank the commissioner for her detailed reply. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration. the european union is not only a europe of numbers, a europe of technology, but also of the voices we look forward to in a europe of culture, education, art, the mobility of artists, the encouragement of transeuropean artistic creation. i am one of those who believe that it is these foundations, the cultural foundations of europe, which can be the sure stabilizing factor for further dynamic promotion of the process of european integration. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr president, for his report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the commission, mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the commission, mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the commission, mr president of the commission, mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the commission, mr president of the president of the commission, mr president of the president of the commission, mr president of the president of the european
member of the commission. − let me start with the last question. commissioner barnier is dealing with this question. of course, i will follow very closely what he does. i understand he is going to present a green paper in 2011 in order to start the consultation on this very important issue. i assure you that because of my interest in my portfolio, i will follow what happens very closely. as i said in my introduction, i am going to present a communication on sport. it will be the first ever communication presenting the political agenda on sport – hopefully at the beginning of january – and all the issues mentioned by the honourable member will be discussed in this communication. the first presentation and discussion will take place, as i said, during the structured dialogue in the context of the sport forum in budapest next february.
member of the commission. − as the honourable member is aware, greece has introduced a number of tax policy measures to reduce its deficit. this economic adjustment programme was agreed with the commission, the imf and the ecb. it conditioned the eur 110 billion financing that is being provided by the euro area member states and the imf. on 6 august 2010 a report was submitted by the greek government to the council and the commission discussing the implementation of those tax measures, as well as of wide-ranging structural reforms. the honourable member can refer to the communication from the commission to the council of 19 august 2010 for a detailed and thorough assessment of the measures adopted in the first half of 2010 by greece to comply with council decision of 2010/320/ec of 10 may 2010. this assessment mainly concludes that the budgetary execution shows positive developments over the first half of 2010 with a deficit declining faster than planned, mainly as a result of lower-than-expected expenditure. moreover, within the framework of the planned fiscal adjustment, the choice of the mix between expenditure and revenue measures made by the greek government takes into account important social and economic aspects, in particular in terms of potential complementarities with a package of structural reforms and measures to improve the microeconomic environment and the functioning of the public sector.
in addition, commissioner, i would like to ask the european commission, as a party to the memorandum, what recommendations it intends to make to greece, given that the current high level of taxation has already led to the closure or relocation of businesses to other more favourable tax neighbours, and at the same time to a reduction in the inflow of investment capital, the return of capital and a reduction in entrepreneurship in general.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to refer to a point raised by the honourable member in his question. the increase and the tax policy pursued by the government on the basis of the memorandum have led to an inflation surge in greece of over 6%, the highest rate in europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax system is not distorted. i would like to ask you whether the commission considers that these tax measures have indeed led to this explosion of inflation which is undermining the competitiveness of the greek economy and what measures do you propose to the greek government to deal with this issue.
madam president, the european union's alarm programme has identified unsustainable land use practices and the use of agrochemicals as the main pressures causing the worrying loss of pollinators in europe. but in a written question i had put in january i received a very disappointing reply from the then commissioner, mr boel. we know that 84% of european crops depend to some extent on pollinators for their fertilization and that to protect them it is necessary to create mandatory ecological recovery zones and to further strengthen agri-environmental measures through the restructuring of the cap. the commissioner has said she is satisfied. but the measures have failed to address the problem of bee loss. since agri-environmental measures represent only 8% of the total cap budget until 2013 and each member state applies them differently, we insist that agri-environmental measures need greater strengthening and uniform implementation and control for correctness. it also requires an emphasis on biological and ecological methods. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's beekeeping industry is not left behind.
madam president, commissioner, the present situation in beekeeping, with the mortality of bees threatening the pollination of fruits, vegetables and so on, and therefore our own food, is indicative of the impasse into which we are being led by the actions of modern man who ignores or is indifferent to the interactions between economic sectors and with nature itself. our development interventions and changes in land use, our farming choices and practices, and even the shaping of needs, habits and demands in our daily lives have all contributed to the disruption of the balance in nature. the results are sometimes estimated in unexplained mortality of bee colonies and the appearance of new diseases, sometimes in an increase in production costs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account in its proposals for the future. the new common agricultural policy must therefore provide for the whole of beekeeping by strengthening support programmes and veterinary coverage of the sector, highlighting its quality characteristics, but also safeguarding biodiversity and mitigating the effects of climate change and the degradation of natural resources.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, and it is therefore important that the commission should be able to take action to combat it. the most likely causes are both the genetically modified products and the nicotine pesticides. we must now, in the face of this great threat, take immediate action. we can no longer experiment with what we grow and what we consume. we should immediately put a moratorium on gm products until we can be sure that they are not responsible for the death of bees, for this threat to our diet. we must take action now, before the economic cost and the cost of survival is insurmountable.
mr president, if there is one key conclusion to be drawn from the decisions of the last european council, it is that they have failed to convince the markets, they have failed to appease the markets. and since markets today have the first and last word, we have to ask ourselves why. why is it that, in addition to the stricter rules of fiscal discipline, the markets are perceiving that we are not only not addressing, but are widening the gap in economic and political cohesion within the euro area? why is it that the manipulation of an otherwise correct idea by a group of states, such as the creation of a permanent crisis management mechanism, seemed to cancel out in practice the added value of such a mechanism, sending the wrong message to the markets and risking a self-fulfilling prophecy of controlled bankruptcy? and if we are so keen to involve the private sector, to share the burden, why are we so stubbornly refusing to go ahead with a financial transaction tax at european level? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and this gap could be filled if we finally decided to seriously consider creating a mechanism for the joint management of part of the member states' debt by issuing eurobonds.
mr president, it is obvious that the permanent support mechanism that has been decided upon is certainly a positive step. however, the strategic planning which should include economic union and obviously economic governance is still lacking. the european union was created thanks to the powerful governments of the time. the economic crisis was made possible by weak governments that allowed the economic automation of economic globalization to replace the political decisions that our society needs to keep it running. europe has secured 50 years of prosperity and we are today obliged to continue to secure this prosperity for the citizens. it is clear that growth must continue. the question is what is growth in an age when everything is changing in the global system? what is europe ? what will it be? the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the small and mediumsized enterprises in the community. we need a stronger europe instead of the suspicion and intergovernmentalism that have been so frequent lately. it is clear that some countries have not complied with the stability pact, but as mr reinfeldt told me in december last year, only one country has complied with the stability pact in full. all the others, they didn't keep their promises. the european union is not a party to the gatt, but it is a party to the gatt, and it is not a party to the gatt. because, in the final analysis, where does the power of the big countries lie? i think it is the common presence of the small countries within the european system. the cost of non-europe is, after all, absolutely unbearable for all of us.
the g20 summit was certainly a very important event, but a second reading raises important questions on certain points. specifically ? 20 developed countries issued a stern warning to countries that implement uncoordinated economic policies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so i try to understand what the meaning of such a statement is and who it is ultimately addressed to. because it's extremely hard for me to believe that this message has a reception in countries that have little relevance to the global economy. but if the g20 has made such a statement to itself, then we really have to think that there is a very serious question of political consensus in an economic period where the reactions have to be immediate.
mr president, the g20 summit in november, in my view, did not produce any real results. it has once again demonstrated the dominant position of the united states and china's attempt to make a meaningful step up in the international arena. as is well known, the severe global financial crisis since 2007 has been manifested when investment banks in the united states, one after the other, have experienced liquidity problems. apparently - and it is world-famous - the american government was forced to issue new money; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in contrast to this attitude of the united states in the monetary field, europe and particularly the eurozone has remained firm in the principle of fiscal discipline, in strictly controlled monetary policy, thus leaving room for speculative games in the markets at the expense of the less resilient economies of europe and particularly the eurozone. i propose, mr president, that we consider the issue of new money in europe, either in the form of banknotes or in the form of eurobonds.
in writing. the european commission's initial proposal for a directive on the provision of information to the public on prescription medicines opened the door wide to pharmaceutical companies to advertise their medicines. the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity, and it is not a matter of the member states being able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the rules are applied. i voted in favour of all those amendments which brought about significant improvements to the original text, shifting the focus of the legislation from the right of the pharmaceutical industry to advertise its products to the right of patients to reliable, objective and independent information. i also voted in favour of the amendments which prohibit the provision of information on medicines not only by television and radio but also by the print media. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. i abstained from the final vote because i think it would be better if the commission reviewed the proposal for a directive in the light of the guidelines we gave it today. it is not by chance that the member states are almost unanimously opposed to this dossier in the council.
in writing. the committee of the regions voted against the two proposals for regulations and the relevant reports of the european parliament because they transfer the responsibility for responsible, reliable and high-quality information for patients from the competent state services to multinational pharmaceutical companies. patient information is not an individual responsibility but a state responsibility. the profits of the pharmaceutical monopolies and the protection of public health cannot coexist. the recent vaccine fraud for the so-called "new influenza" pandemic is a prime example of how targeted information is being turned into billions of dollars in profits for international pharmaceutical companies. we argue that the responsibility for informing citizens about medicines in general and not just those prescribed (as provided for in regulations) should be exclusively state-owned. this is only a basic measure to protect patients and workers. because as long as medicine, research and the means of disseminating knowledge and information are in the hands of multinational companies operating solely on the basis of profit, workers and health professionals cannot be sure of the quality and effectiveness of the medicines, knowledge and information they receive. it is necessary to conflict with the above policy to abolish business in health and medicine; for the operation of a state agency for medicines; the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to provide the necessary information to the commission in order to enable it to assess the situation.
in writing. i voted today in favour of the resolution tabled by the epp and the esc on the anti-counterfeiting and counterfeiting trade agreement (acta) as such an agreement is intended to ensure fairness and fair competition. this agreement now establishes a comprehensive international framework to strengthen the fight against infringements of intellectual property rights. it also encourages the accession of other developing countries to the agreement, as acta membership is not closed. the negotiations on the agreement now take account of the ep's main concerns, including: • respect for fundamental rights and privacy • data protection • respect for the role of the free internet • defence of the role of service providers and • in particular the need to ensure access to medicines and the protection of public health.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i would like to congratulate mrs bobińska on the painstaking and excellent work she has done. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. it's the first time we've seen realism in a strategy. the commission is specifically and clearly mentioning the difficulties, delineating them and indicating what those difficulties are and what the gaps are that will make it difficult for us to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have two small pipelines: itgi and tap. they're ready, they're ripe. you may proceed. nabucco, because it's big, it's complicated, and it can be delayed. so, go ahead and run the two small pipes.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 25 november, at 12 noon. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on preparations for the cancun conference on climate change (29 november - 10 december).
mr president, commissioner, i agree with mr leinen that we have really gone from one extreme to the other. in copenhagen we had very high expectations and now in cancun we may have very low expectations. we are asking for two main items: the redd issue and funding. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if there is no progress in cancun, the whole negotiation process is in jeopardy. and that is why we are really counting on your efforts, on the efforts of the european union, to make progress on at least these two issues and not to jeopardize the negotiations as a whole. it was reported by many colleagues that in 2009 we actually achieved a 17.3% reduction in emissions. the 20% target by 2020 is not too far off; we could catch him in the next few years. there is no reason why we should not go to 30% and beyond in order to modernise our economy, create new jobs and become competitive again. the commission has also taken the initiative of proposing a new regulation on the use of the euro. he's absolutely right. it is absurd for the european union not to compare the lulucf emission reductions with those of 1990, but to use the business as usual approach, the excess emissions and how much less we are emitting than would be expected. we are really counting on you to have successful results on these two crucial issues in the cancun negotiations.
mr president, today there is a major environmental scandal unfolding which should concern the cancun conference. 60% of the allowances sold to the ets originating from cdm projects are for the destruction of an industrial greenhouse gas, hfc-23, at a cost 70 times the actual cost, paid mainly by european electricity consumers. so far we have wasted about 1.5 billion euros and if this situation continues, we will spend another 3.5 billion by 2013 for a real gas catastrophe value of only 80 million euros. this creates huge unjustified profits for a few companies around the world with no environmental benefit, since hfc-23 has increased in the atmosphere in recent years. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental impact of the kyoto protocol is not underestimated. in the context of cop 16, europe must raise this real problem, because a change in international policy on this issue offers serious possibilities for drastically reducing greenhouse gas emissions immediately and at very low cost, and ask countries such as china, which are currently releasing huge quantities of hfc-23 into the atmosphere, which could be zeroed out if china used a little of the money it gets in taxation from these unjustified profits, to participate more substantially in efforts to combat climate change. the waste of over 4 billion of european taxpayers cannot be tolerated. it is our job in the european parliament to defend the public interest and the interests of consumers.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. i am sure that your services have often explained to you that it is not possible to take and implement certain measures which are necessary for climate change. but the threat of climate change is so huge that the question is not what to do but how to find ways to deal with it, how to find ways to implement the necessary measures. one solution being discussed in terms of trade's contribution to climate change is border tax adjustments, which is taxing imports from countries that are not taking the same measures as us on climate change. we should also consider disincentives to trade in like products. water is a local resource. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the mr president, in march 2007 an environmental organisation asked for the correspondence between the european commission and the car industry to be made public as part of a consultation on the preparation of a legislative proposal on carbon dioxide emissions. eight months later the commission granted access to 16 of the 19 documents, refusing to release - without legal justification - three documents addressed to porsche. the environmental organisation turned to the european ombudsman who, a month later, drew up a draft recommendation to the commission asking it to reply within three months in accordance with article 228 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the commission requested five extensions to state in june 2009 that it was still unable - one year after the ombudsman's draft recommendation - to make public the correspondence with the car manufacturer in question because of ongoing consultations with it. by october 2010, the ombudsman had no evidence at his disposal. this unjustified delay led him to draw up a special report to the european parliament in which he denounced the commission for its frank and good faith refusal to cooperate, while pointing out the danger of undermining the ability of the two institutions to exercise oversight over the commission. the ombudsman's special report - the first on maladministration - which parliament is called upon to vote on today, resulted in the publication of the documents of the car manufacturer in question 15 months after the ombudsman's initial request. from september 2008 to february 2010, the commission reached a decision that had been presented to it in the ombudsman's draft recommendation fifteen months earlier, while at the same time it was shown that the car manufacturer in question had finally accepted the publication of at least part of its documents. it follows from the foregoing that the commission was certainly required to take account of the relevant article of the european parliament's regulation which provides that the institutions may refuse access to documents the disclosure of which would prejudice the protection of the commercial interests of a particular natural or legal person. however, since the ombudsman's office had already checked the letters and found that they did not contain any information which would have harmed the commercial interests of the car manufacturer in question, the commission had to proceed immediately to publish even part of them, following the ombudsman's instructions. if, however, it had reservations about the interpretation of the draft recommendation, it was obliged, in order to justify its choices, to adduce equally strong legal considerations from which it might be inferred that the car manufacturer in question could have brought proceedings before the courts under the relevant article of regulation no 1049/2001 of the european parliament. i would not like to comment on the complete silence of the car industry in question in the face of the commission's complaints. i think it is unacceptable, however, that the refusal of a private company to respond to such a request, which is almost disgraceful to the european institutions, should be used as an argument by this highest executive body of the united europe. this is all the more so because the content of its documents does not reveal any information which could trigger the application of the relevant article of regulation 1049/2001 of the european parliament and lead the commission to the courts.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, after reading the european ombudsman's annual report for 2009, i feel obliged to commend mr diamantoure for his representation and service to the institution that unites european citizens and gives them a secure sense of refuge. it is certainly the duty of the european ombudsman to ensure that any natural or legal person who may have problems with the institutions of the european union, with the infringements of those institutions and with what constitutes maladministration, should have recourse to him. but i have found from reading the report that the success of the institution and its staff is due to the fact that: firstly, most of the investigations, already 70% of them, were completed within one year and more than half, 55%, were completed within three months. this demonstrates the speed of action of the european ombudsman and his collaborators and therefore the smooth functioning of the institution. secondly, in 80% of the cases received, the ombudsman was able to help the person concerned to resolve his or her issue in the alpha or beta way, either by referring him or her to the competent institution or by giving advice on where to turn for a quick resolution of his or her problem. this proves the effectiveness of the institution. it should not be overlooked that 84% of the reports were submitted by private individuals and only 16% by companies and associations, which also indicates the prestige of the institution and its representatives to the european citizen who considers himself to be a victim of mismanagement. in particular, i would point out that nine of the cases decided in 2009 are examples of best practice. i would like to point out that i was particularly pleased to see that the preamble to the report expresses the european ombudsman's intention to help ensure that the conditions are in place for the european union to deliver the benefits promised to citizens by the treaty of lisbon. i would like to congratulate mr diamantoure.
madam president, we are discussing two very important issues here today. the first is the interest of european citizens; the second is the reconciliation of european citizens with the european institutions. the three reports by the three ladies, which are really excellent, and the work of the european ombudsman make me think, on behalf of the european citizens, of mr diamantoure as d'artagnan and the three rapporteurs as the three bodyguards for the interests of the european citizens. it is a pity that the european commission is not involved in this as much as it should be. the only positive thing i can find in the commissioner's statement today is the speed of his speech. and if the european commission had acted with the same speed, we would not have to have this debate today. it is very important that european citizens have confidence in the european institutions, that they see them positively and feel that they are working in their interests. fifteen months of delay - as mrs paliadeli says in her report - in the delivery of three letters from a car manufacturer specialising in high-speed cars, oxymoron shape! if the interests of a single european citizen were in the place of the car industry, would the delay be so great? i wonder! anyway, i think we should be honest. we must all work together, we must have confidence in what the commissioner has said, we must believe that the commission is willing to work with the european ombudsman and we must all really work in the interests of the european citizens. the commission should act with the same speed as it did in its speech and the commissioner made it difficult for the interpreters.
madam president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate the european ombudsman on the excellent work he has been doing all this time. i would also like to congratulate the rapporteurs. i would like to refer in particular to the report by mrs palia delis. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a directive on the emission of pollutants from motor vehicles. the issues raised are the objectivity of the commission's legislative proposals and whether the commission is truly independent of industrial interests. the report rightly proposes that, if the commission continues to practice this way, a part of the commission's budget should be committed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the madam president, mr diamantoure, commissioner, i think that the specific report by mr diamantoure, which i had the honour of presenting to the european parliament, does not capture the essence of the matter. it captures the type of the issue. and that's very important to me. i think that the 15 months delay in the reply and the final decision, the successive extensions of the original deadline, and above all the strange, in my view, decision of the commission not to communicate the letter it had prepared to the car manufacturer in question, telling it that it would make part of its documents public, are serious matters; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. if the commission had, after all this time - and it is not your fault, mr commissioner, you have only recently taken over responsibility for this sector - if the commission had decided to send mr diamantoure on 18 february the letter it was preparing to send to the car industry in question, this special report would not have been produced. mr diamantoro has decided to accept the successive extensions requested by the commission. i think, however, that it is thanks to this delay, to the commission's failure to inform mr diamantoure, that we have a report which records issues of both form and substance. i will not discuss the substance at all. but the commission must take very seriously - and i am glad you said so before me - that any difficulty in the work of the european ombudsman is detrimental to the unity of the european union, undermines citizens' trust in its institutions and damages the public image of their functioning. we are asking for a commitment to what you have said before, because we are all responsible. i am particularly grateful to mr diamantoure for his report, which has given us the opportunity to understand that the european parliament has the power to defend the issues which we consider to be of paramount importance for european cohesion.
in writing. once again a theatre is being played out between the political representatives of capital and the bourgeois governments for the manipulation of the people. the question is not whether or not we will have an increase in the budget, but where the money will go. and that's settled. we shall have cuts in cap agricultural subsidies to poor and middle-class farmers, while money from the structural funds goes to 'eligible' projects, which are nothing but projects that are directly or through public-private partnerships to large business groups. the money is also being channelled from the eu budget to the monopoly groups. on the other hand, any increase in the community budget will be directed to financing the anti-people policy and action of the eu, such as financing the newly created mechanism of the european external action service for the more effective political-military imperialist intervention policy of the eu. the eu budget is another instrument for draining the people's income and redistributing it to monopoly capital. the inter-imperialist contradictions within the eu are not about the peoples, but about the struggle of the bourgeois classes and sections of capital to secure a greater share of the spoils by robbing the people's incomes.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the evaluation of the monitoring of the application of community law today. the report focuses on assessing the effectiveness of the eu pilot programme, which aims to bring the commission and member states together to ensure the proper application of the treaties. the report stresses the need to establish a procedural code in the form of a regulation to enhance transparency and protect citizens' rights, setting out the main points of infringement procedures, such as notifications, time limits, the right to be heard and the obligation to state reasons. the commission, as guardian of the treaties, is hereby invited to provide all the information that will make clear the potential added value of the eu pilot programme in the process of handling infringement cases.
in writing. ensuring pluralism and pluralism in the media requires a smooth and non-discriminatory coexistence of private and public media. the success of this objective depends, however, on two conditions. first, to ensure that both public and private media are responding to the needs of the digital age by modernising their services without - and this is important - imposing any significant costs on consumers, and secondly, to ensure that in the new digital environment there is a viable space for broadcasting to coexist with other media such as magazines and newspapers, especially today, when the print media across europe are in complete decline. we need adequate funding and national planning in the member states. in both these areas, the eu can and should help by providing resources, for example through the investment fund for the digitisation of media, and by coordinating member states in the exchange of good practice in the digitisation of broadcasting media. i think that these points are sufficiently made in this report and that is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. i voted against the joint resolution on the tenth anniversary of un security council resolution 1325 on women, peace and security because it has a distorted logic on gender equality. in my view, equality is not achieved by women's participation in militaristic organizations or international police forces. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the situation in the countries of the former soviet union, and to provide information on the situation in the countries of the former soviet union. the resolution calls for the "employment of more women in the police, the army" and for the eu to appoint more women officers and soldiers in csdp missions". i also voted against the amendments tabled by the left group, which removed these formalities, and those concerning the additional participation of women in eupol and eusec and the strengthening of their presence in the democratic republic of congo.
in writing. i voted against the report on the new energy strategy for europe 2011-2020. the report is fully in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, which is also abolishing the last features of social europe. the strengthening of eu competitiveness, so strongly promoted in the report, has been shown to result in a reduction in wages and rights for workers in this sector. at the same time, in the midst of the economic crisis and while almost the entire european energy industry (production units, networks) is being privatised, the report provides for greater financial resources to be allocated to energy infrastructure, i.e. indirectly subsidising large industries. finally, i believe that the report only attempts to link the union's energy policy with its climate change mitigation objectives in a figurative way, as the references are vague and do not describe a strong political will.
in writing. the original form of the resolution on the cancun climate change conference was altered considerably and its content was greatly weakened by the incorporation of the epp amendments. however, i voted in favour of it because i believe that the need for rapid and coordinated action at international level to tackle climate change is becoming urgent and that the resolution as a whole continues to contain many positive elements and to be an important contribution from the eu side to the cancun conference. the report criticises the lack of preparation for the conference, stresses the need to reduce emissions by at least 40% and calls on the eu and member states to enforce the principle of 'climate justice'. the historic responsibility of the developed countries is also emphasised and their financial commitments are restored, as is the objective of official development assistance of 0.7% of gdp. the conservation of biodiversity and the ecosystem is put at the centre, the right of access to drinking water is recognised, as is the need to conserve forests and develop a forestry policy. finally, it is rightly pointed out that the potential for energy savings is not being exploited and the increase in energy efficiency in buildings and transport is emphasised.
the european support mechanism, mr president, creates additional obligations for the commission to safeguard european legitimacy. i am surprised to find that the opposite is true. i have in my hand a written reply from commissioner rehn to the memorandum with greece. he personally agrees that the sole initiative and responsibility for the terms belongs to the greek government. i have in my hand another written reply from commissioner almunia, who states unequivocally that he does not consider it necessary to provide the information we ask for in order to exercise parliamentary scrutiny. the commission seems to be deliberately creating grey areas for a number of countries in the implementation of european law and european policies. the democratic control is being displaced, as on the most basic measures the national governments hide behind the commission and the troika and the commission refers to the national governments respectively. the commission is thus no longer the guardian of the treaties but the guardian of an informal emergency which it has itself declared. in this difficult situation, the activation of the support mechanism cannot mean the deactivation of european legitimacy.
mr president, the intensification of the anti-people policy of the european union, the international monetary fund and the bourgeois governments in its member states has taken the form of a war against the fundamental wage, labour and social rights which the working class has won with many years of struggle: mass unemployment, poverty, abolition of state collective labour agreements, drastic reduction of wages and pensions, increase of retirement age, abolition of heavy and unhealthy occupations, increase of vat, looting of popular incomes by 25% in the private and public sector; the sale of state-owned enterprises, the intensification of authoritarianism, the brutality of repression against the workers' movement. the most striking examples are the imposition of the shameful measure of political conscription of striking seamen in greece, the state of emergency against striking air traffic controllers in spain, the beating of schoolchildren and students in england and, more generally, the questioning of fundamental civil liberties. on the other hand, during the same period, there is a subsidy freeze and tax exemptions which are provocative. the president is interrupting the speaker.
mr president, a difficult time is coming to an end for humanity and for europe, a europe that has been tested for its common currency and its cohesion. new institutions of protection and support were devised and implemented to shore up the common currency and to support two main countries with very different economic characteristics, greece and ireland. i believe that all of us, and especially the leadership of europe, have become more experienced in this crisis and we have all acquired a greater sense of solidarity with each other. i want to believe that. i therefore believe that the right moves will be made in 2011 to maintain social cohesion without the extremes that extreme budgetary discipline leads to. i must stress, mr president, that there is a contradictory economic policy in the united states. it must be understood that in the eurozone measures must be taken to create conditions for a smooth return to the markets of greece, ireland and portugal and to avoid a similar problem in spain.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, we all know that as of 19 december 2009 the visa exemption for holders of biometric passports of the fyrom, serbia and montenegro is in force. however, the european union countries and commissioner malmström have expressed concern about the increased number of asylum applications from citizens of serbia and fyrom, which could create a situation that would jeopardise the issuing of visas and the usefulness of the measure. my country, greece, is in favour of the abolition of the visa requirement for citizens of all the western balkan countries as a practical demonstration of the european perspective of these peoples. this was first formulated in the thessaloniki agenda in june 2003 and in the spirit of the greek initiative for agenda 2014. however, mr president, i must express my concern about whether the criteria of the road maps from these countries are being applied and whether the migration flows from these countries to the countries of the european union are being controlled, at a time when the european family is being shaken by the economic crisis and cannot tolerate other immigrants. it must be understood, mr president, that visa facilitation is facilitation of movement within the european union and not facilitation of immigration or other illegal activities such as trafficking in human beings.
i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative in this area and that it has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the visa exemption is not applied to all the countries of the community. it is a fact that since the beginning of this liberation there have been abuses and bad examples, bad texts, which we have identified and are rapidly addressing. the commission and the commissioner personally have a very important role to play in cooperating with the authorities of those countries which initially caused problems, and i am of course referring to both the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and serbia. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, the very fact that almost all our colleagues have congratulated mr díaz de mera garcía consuegra, our rapporteur, and all the shadow rapporteurs who have worked on this effort today, highlights the very serious effort that has been made and the very good results, and of course my congratulations to everyone. today's debate is very important because it shows that, at european level, in our efforts to manage migration flows, legal and illegal, in our efforts to coordinate and show solidarity between member states, we are making even better use of all the tools at our disposal. we've created the network of immigration liaison officers. as has been said before, some 130 countries are involved in this network and it gives us the opportunity to have good information. we have created frontex, we have recently created the european asylum service, we are moving forward with the readmission agreement, we are using all the european funds we have and we are increasing them as much as we can year by year. the fact that we are now reaching the point of using these tools and combining them, that is, seeing what the needs of frontex are, combining with the liaison officers' network, combining every means and every tool we have even more closely, these alone show that we are going even more effectively. of course, no one is saying that we have reached the desired level. when one sees that in greece we have 90% of illegal immigrants at european level, that alone shows that we have a lot to do. but this cooperation and the possibilities we have prove that we can go even further. they enable us to be as optimistic as we can be that europe has the potential and that with solidarity and close cooperation from all of us we can achieve even better results in the future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. do not have any such doubt that in any such initiative we will be helpful!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the reports are moving in the same anti-people direction as the strategic plans of the european union's monopoly groups and the bourgeois governments that serve them. the european union has not been cohesive in the past, mr president, and it cannot be, despite attempts to use cohesion policy to manipulate the people. the european union's policy is characterised by two main elements: the first is the profound imbalance inherent in the capitalist development process, and the second is that the community funds are not being used to satisfy the needs of the people but for projects and infrastructure to make money for capital and hot money for the monopoly groups through public-private partnerships. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. the reports and plans of the political representatives of the capital for the future cohesion policy serve the modern needs of business groups, the rapid promotion of capitalist restructuring, through the anti-people eu 2020 strategy, the savage attack on the labour, insurance and social rights of the working class. the european union and the capitalist mode of development are not able to meet urgent needs such as earthquake protection, education, health and welfare. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one.
mr president, commissioner, i should first like to congratulate and thank the rapporteur, mrs mănescu, for her excellent cooperation and for the fact that she was always ready to discuss and take into account the suggestions of colleagues on the content of the report. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in wine and the common organization of the market in wine, which is to be adopted by the council on 1 january 1993, is a step in the right direction. the challenges posed by the complex system of this management are met with one answer: multilevel governance. what i would like to stress is that, taking into account the future orientation of cohesion policy, as at least to some extent appears in the fifth cohesion report, multilevel governance in both its horizontal and vertical dimension will play a crucial role in the sustainability of any development initiatives and in the success of the policy. i also welcome the call for further simplification of the rules and for more technical support to local authorities from the european commission, as factors to ensure greater participation of potential beneficiaries in the programmes and the absorption of resources in a sustainable way. the evaluations now carried out by the european commission provide evidence of which bodies have persistent problems with their administrative capacity in implementing cohesion policy programmes. as the report notes, the additional technical assistance to these bodies combined with the support of the european commission's 'train the trainers' initiative will ensure that the administrative capacity of even the smallest local bodies is strengthened. finally, i believe that greater unification and harmonisation of the rules of the structural funds will make a decisive contribution to the efforts to simplify and to sound financial management.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat trafficking in human beings, including the introduction of a system of penalties for trafficking in human beings. i would very much suggest, since we in this parliament are in the habit of setting targets and saying '20%' or '30%', that you propose a single european law which sets a minimum prison sentence for traffickers of human beings of 10-15 years, and that this prison sentence is not to be paid for and is not to be reduced by anything. you'll see how effective it is! the european union must have a single law and a minimum of 10 to 15 years in prison! i think it will be the most effective measure we have taken. we cannot take action here on climate change, on pollution and not set measurable targets in the fight against this crime.
in writing. i chose to abstain on the report on the establishment of a union mechanism for rapid reaction to humanitarian disasters because, while it contains guidelines and elements that are positive, it also contains points involving this mechanism with military means and military presence. it is very positive that the report states that the use of civil protection resources, when deployed in any humanitarian crisis, should be needs-oriented and complementary and consistent with humanitarian aid...in order to ensure respect for the humanitarian principles of neutrality, humanism, impartiality and independence...and recommends that it should be of a non-military nature. but there are also points of logic which are quite the opposite and that is why i have chosen to abstain. for example, the possibility of dealing with 'military crises' or even the acceptance of the possibility of using military resources and capabilities to deal with disasters, even as an 'exception'.
in writing. i voted against the report on the creation of a network of immigration liaison officers because it is an additional strengthening of the frontex organisation, which further promotes the europe-fortress logic. it is a question of replacing the necessary progress in migration and asylum policies with repressive policies which are not only contrary to basic principles and rights, but are also ineffective and have harmful consequences for the host and home societies and for the lives of refugees and migrants.
in writing. the directive on the single permit for residence and work in all eu member states and the european parliament's report on the subject treat immigrants as cheap labour, vulnerable to the harshest exploitation of capital. a migrant will only have the right to stay in the territory of an eu member state if he is working to feed the profits of the plutocracy. otherwise, he'll be considered an illegal alien and treated as an unwanted object, imprisoned for up to 18 months and forcibly deported. migrant and local workers in the eu member states have nothing to separate. they are united by the common destiny of the worker, the exploited, the producer of wealth, who is seized by capital. the fight for the just demands of migrants, for their legalisation, the abolition of undeclared and uninsured work, higher wages and salaries, equal pay for work of equal value, full protection of social and political rights, for the abolition of the dublin ii agreement is a common one. the solution to the problems of migrants is through their integration into the working class movement, the development of its struggles against the anti-people and chauvinist policy of the eu and bourgeois governments, which are responsible for the poverty and misery of local and migrant workers in the eu and throughout the world.
in writing. i voted today in favour of the proposal for a directive on the adoption of a uniform mechanism to facilitate and strengthen the protection afforded to victims of crime moving between member states exercising their right to free movement. the directive will now protect victims from criminal acts which may endanger their life, physical, mental and sexual integrity and personal freedom with the ultimate aim of preventing similar acts from being committed in the future. following negotiations with the council, the directive is being improved with emphasis on the following points: - continuation of legal protection as the victim will no longer be obliged to start the whole legal procedure anew in order to benefit from protection measures when he moves to another member state - better and easier conditions for the issuing of the european protection order - limitation of the grounds for refusing to recognise or reject a european protection order - clear deadline for the execution of an order - protection not only of the physical integrity but also of the dignity of the victim.
in writing. the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has also called for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the rights of citizens and for the protection of the european union's financial interests. it is now the eu's constant aim to exploit the sensitivity of workers to gradually impose the notion of the alleged need for uniform and uniform criminal law rules in all sectors and in all member states. the imposition of criminal law harmonization in eu member states with the shamelessly declared aim of strengthening eu and state repression mechanisms to shield the power of monopolies is another heavy blow to popular freedoms. it is also an unacceptable and dangerous restriction of the sovereignty of the people and of the sovereign rights of the member states. the eu's interest in combating trafficking in human beings is a false one, since it comes from the capitalist transnational union of the eu which declares the capitalist system as the foundation of its existence. the transformation of labour power into a commodity in capitalism simultaneously makes people themselves into commodities, to serve the only value that the rotten system of exploitation recognizes: the profit of capital.
in writing. the report on the development of genuine territorial, social and political cohesion within the eu has as its main objective to increase the global competitiveness of eu businesses. the report is fundamentally wrong in that it assumes, without any analysis, that competitiveness and cohesion are not contradictory and incompatible concepts. in fact, competitiveness as it currently operates, also at european level, means a reduction in wages and workers' rights and a shrinking of the public sector to the benefit of large enterprises, while at the same time it is not in keeping with the concept of economic and political cohesion. the report describes the problems facing eu regions but fails to offer convincing and viable solutions, following closely the lisbon and eu2020 strategies. finally, it considers the economic crisis and the disastrous consequences facing most european regions as another phenomenon that the regions must deal with, avoiding to mention the causes that created it. in this way it effectively conceals the inadequacy and weakness of european cohesion policy before the crisis. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. it is true that the course of cohesion policy to date has contributed to the effort to reduce disparities between regions. however, economic times have changed and cohesion policy must adapt with them. as the most important community instrument of solidarity between the poorest and richest regions of the eu, the new role of cohesion policy must be to intensify efforts to prevent the creation of new economic islands - regions in the european construction. the challenge is therefore specific and clear. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. 1. the regions covered by objective 1 of cohesion policy; the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. regions at the threshold of receiving funding, the so-called 'phasing out' (attica is in this category), should be considered on a case-by-case basis with their most recent economic data, as the economic crisis may have overturned the data of previous years.
president of the commission. - on the fund, all the news that comes out is about the activities of member states, not the european commission. the member states must provide all the explanations and i am confident that they will do so, as democratic states they are. i know that in some member states initiatives have been taken to clarify public opinion on certain operations which have been accused of being carried out. as regards the commission's work, as mr carlos coelho has just acknowledged, the commission has done everything in its power to provide this parliament and the european public with as much information as possible. as far as mr. assange is concerned, i have no comment. there are criminal charges against him, which were brought by a member state which is a democracy, which is sweden, there is now a european arrest warrant against him, which is being examined by the british judicial authorities, and the commission obviously has nothing to say on this point, except for one obvious thing: that until a sentence has been passed, the presumption of innocence of any accused is always maintained.
mr. president, there is a real war going on on the internet right now. news reports have been circulating for a few days now that thousands of hackers have launched cyber attacks against companies that are trying to take down wikileaks from the internet or hit it financially and cut off its donations. companies like mastercard, visa, paypal have been hit by ddos attacks, which is thousands of computers trying to log on to the same page at the same time, overloading it and making it go down. we all know that this creates a general problem for citizens' transactions. and the question is clear: do we think that - at european level - we have a reliable safety net to protect these online transactions of citizens in such cases?
in writing. the impasse caused in the first draft of the eu budget for 2011 by the intransigent stance of a small minority of member states brought us very close to a possible adventure with dozen million and all the negative consequences of the implementation of such a system both for the budgetary situation of the economically weak member states and the possible long delay in the payments of european funds. to avoid this adventure, parliament is showing the necessary responsibility and is ready to accept a budget despite the fact that it does not fully cover its own positions and does not respond to the circumstances as it should and as european citizens would expect in order to deal effectively with the economic crisis. but the problem of how to address the budgetary needs of the immediate future for 2012 and 2013 remains, and i call on this small minority of member states to show the same responsibility and to work together with parliament to find a solution that will give the eu the necessary flexibility to address its needs and prevent a new budgetary crisis.
mr president, commissioner, poland recently introduced medical castration for paedophiles and rapists, using hormonal drugs to suppress their sex drive, following the arrest of a 45-year-old man who had fathered two children with his underage daughter. this measure, you understand, is provoking heated debate and reaction in poland as to whose rights come first, the society, which expects protection from rapists, or the convicted sex offenders, who may suffer a punishment that many consider inhumane. does the commission have a position on these issues and the legalization of chemical castration for sexual offences?
mr president, commissioner, i have heard your answer to my colleague's question, but i should like to tell you what is happening in practice: the figures for unemployment in greece in 2009 were 20% for men and 34% for women. newly unemployed! the situation has worsened since the entry into force of the international monetary fund. at the same time, two programmes funded by the european union within the national strategic reference framework have absorption rates of 1.9 and 3.2. so the question is: why is there this low absorbency in greece? is it the responsibility of the greek government? secondly, is the commission considering any additional measures to deal with this employment problem?
vice-president of the commission. − i fully agree with the analysis that many member states are missing the barcelona targets. only eight member states meet the barcelona targets for children aged 0 to 3 years and only seven member states meet the targets for children between 3 years old and the mandatory school age. as commissioner responsible for equality, i am not responsible for social affairs and i know that all these questions are on the agenda for the europe 2020 strategy. we will certainly have to look at all these questions because the problems are going to become worse with the ageing population. who is going to care for the elderly, too? women are going to have not only the babies to look after, but also the elderly. so we really have to have a look at that and also analyse why the member states are not taking up the money which is available in order to have more childcare facilities. concerning quotas, in my answer i did not, i think, use the word quotas, but i have said very clearly that if there is no progress then i will do something and i have said clearly what i mean by progress. progress means having on the boards of publicly listed companies 30% women by 2015 and 40% by 2020. i hope that we can reach those targets without the need for strong intervention at european level. if not, well, quotas are on the agenda and, while there are those who may not believe that i will do what i say, i am known for normally doing things which i have announced. that is also why businesses now have a big chance to make it unnecessary for me to intervene, because if they do things right, we do not need to intervene. i completely agree with the figures which have been quoted. we women make up 60% of new university graduates; that means we should also somehow hold 60% of the management positions, but we are far from reaching that level. that is the reason why we need to help women to get into management positions. there are many reasons why they do not make it: one is culture and that is the most difficult to change. that is also the reason why women in decision-making is one of the priorities of the gender equality strategy, just as is the gender pay gap – 17% on average at the european level, some countries being very high, some being very low. next year we are going to start a campaign to raise awareness of these facts. for instance, there is a very nice project in germany which we could generalise to other countries where in public spaces there is a meter measuring how much longer a woman has to work in order to reach the same medium salary as a man. of course, we also have to get the social partners into this discussion and we have to have transparency measures implemented. all this is on the agenda of the strategy for women and we are going to put that in place step by step – not in order to just speak about it, but to change things.
vice-president of the commission. − when i became commissioner i saw that a great deal had been done in the past on questions of security and very little had been done on questions of rights. that is why, having the tools of the lisbon treaty at my disposal and also having the stockholm strategy, where many points on how we have to advance have been put into place, we decided to act, and we acted very swiftly. first of all, let me thank the parliament for the excellent work which has been done on the procedural rights. we have already come to an agreement on the right of a person before the court to interpretation and translation in criminal proceedings. we are making good progress on the directive on the right to information in criminal proceedings: the famous letter of rights. if we want to become the continent of rights we will have to have the procedural rights established little by little. those come at a price but they are indispensable to safeguarding the rights of the defence for european citizens and also to making mutual recognition function properly. before we make any proposal, we always make a thorough impact assessment of the financial consequences of the eu legislation for member states. only then do we submit legislative proposals. this exercise was of course based on the figures provided by the administration of the member states. these figures reveal that the additional costs to be borne by member states should not be too great. regarding the right to interpretation and translation, the directive simply reiterates an existing obligation of the member states already in the convention on human rights of the council of europe, so it is not asking for something extraordinary. it is just asking for something very basic. the member states – and there are many who already comply with the strasbourg court obligations – are unlikely to have to incur any expenses in addition to what they already spend on this. regarding the right to information, the biggest share of expenditure will be in the initial one-off cost of drawing up a letter of rights. here the commission has already submitted a model as an annex to the directive in all the eu languages. member states just have to take this model and copy it, so the cost to them will not be very great. the commission does not have a budget containing any appropriation which would allow the institution to provide financial assistance to member states to meet those expenses. if member states make a calculation taking in the risk of a miscarriage of justice, the legal remedies and the retrials, the loss of reputation of a justice system as a whole and sometimes the damages awarded by the strasbourg court or by domestic courts, then it is much more expensive not to have these basic rights financed by a responsible state.
mr president, commissioner, thank you very much for your reply. you are absolutely right in what you say and i cannot but agree with you. but i clarify and ask again: in a country like greece or malta for example, where you know how much pressure we have from both illegal immigration and those people who might be in a criminal proceeding needing help, beyond the standard letter and the various standard documents that they will have at their disposal, in the event that the accused wants some documents from his case file translated, which as you understand is a specialized and every time multifaceted task, we estimate what the relevant costs will be, especially for some small countries that have such great pressures and so many great problems?
i have listened very carefully to your reply, mr president, commissioner, and i thank you for it, in the light of the facts. but on the other hand, commissioner, the reason for my present question was mainly that we have observed objectively in recent times that there is a surge of nationalism in albania. we in greece are very concerned and worried about this, because this should not be happening while the country is on the way to accession. we hope that these phenomena will disappear.
i would like to emphasize one point: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens is a very good one. the importance of a binding energy efficiency target for the european economy. in difficult economic conditions for a number of member states that need strong incentives to grow, protect and create jobs, a binding target will create the right investment environment to boost the competitiveness and export potential of european companies, mainly smes, active in energy-efficient technologies and services. member states will have the incentive to strengthen those markets which in each economy can provide the most added value and create the most jobs. in addition, households, businesses and the public sector will benefit from significant tangible economic benefits as they will enjoy lower energy bills. i would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report and call on the european commission to implement the proposals in the bendtsen report, while at the same time facilitating the exit of our economy from the crisis.
mr president, commissioner, the cancun negotiations were a relative success. the climate change negotiations are moving forward. countries like china didn't expect the result in cancun. they are taking action even after the failure of copenhagen. if we do not invest in things like energy efficiency and energy saving, then we will lose twice as much. on the one hand our households, our businesses, our public services will continue to pay unreasonable costs, on the other hand we risk losing the green frontier of the european economy. so we have to think: if today we have a hard time competing with countries like china, how will we be able to compete with a green china in the future? that is why it is really important to support a binding target for the european union of 20% energy savings.
mr president, as i heard the commissioner speak so freely about polycyclic hydrocarbons, carcinogens and toxic substances, i thought for a moment that he was a chemist and not the commissioner. i then remembered that he was the commissioner responsible for the subject, so the first thing he had to answer in detail was the question of the ce mark, the issue raised by the distinguished colleague evelyn gebhardt, the mark which is supposed to be the guarantee of safety for the toys with which our children play. but then i thought that there was a very specific reason why he didn't answer: on friday it will be exactly two years since the former commissioner signed a security agreement with retailers and importers of toys for our children in a toy shop outside brussels. it is a year and a half today since we had a new directive, however today we are again here as last year, which the president very rightly pointed out, to talk about the same issue, about the safety of toys, and this year things are even more serious, because we have a crisis and when we have a crisis parents who want to buy toys and do not have money will go to the part of the market that has lower quality toys. but when we have substandard games, we have three problems: firstly, that part of the market is not aware of the rules, secondly, it has no staff, thirdly, there are no controls, so we are still unprotected. but as we all know and as we all accept, children are our most precious possession and, as you rightly said, commissioner, they are our most vulnerable citizens. please answer for the ce, which is the security guarantee! i would like to ask the commissioner to give us practical answers so that next year neither you nor we will be here to ask the same question.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, exactly one year ago the greek drama of economic collapse and my country's involvement in the disastrous memorandum and the support mechanism began. mr langen, one year after these developments the country is on the verge of bankruptcy. social bankruptcy, as unemployment next year will reach 15%, while yesterday the government voted by law to abolish the collective agreements - today there is a general strike; secondly, economic bankruptcy, and listen, ladies and gentlemen, this time the deficit and debt were not increased by the lying greeks of pasok or nd; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if the council is preparing such a mechanism, it will plunge the countries into recession, unemployment and leniency for the banks and big business. so i ask myself: this is the european vision that mr barroso spoke of at the beginning, and he is not here to explain it to us.
madam president, commissioner, tomorrow marks the beginning of one of the most crucial european councils in the history of the european union and in particular of emu, and the question is whether the heads of state or government will be up to the task. we are very much in doubt about this, because the logic introduced by some leaders in the european council is not a logic of overcoming the crisis on the basis of solidarity and, of course, responsibility. it is a crisis management logic; it is a logic that focuses and is limited to the details of setting up the permanent mechanism. the european council will not be up to the task, mr president, because it will not send the message of economic and political cohesion that it should, not only to convince the markets but first and foremost to convince the european citizens who are being surrounded, who are looking at each other with suspicion, who are becoming xenophobic again; the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left to its own devices, but is instead a means of ensuring that the citizens of europe are not left to their own devices.
mr langen and mr hökmark, who are very fond of ideologising the debt crisis in order to target, obviously, the socialist governments themselves, i would like to ask you a simple question: have you ever asked your colleagues in the european people's party who ruled my country until a year ago and who gave official figures to you and the european commission - and ask mr rehn about this - that the level of greece's deficit for 2009 was 6.9% instead of the 15% that eurostat recently validated?
madam president, i would like to congratulate all the rapporteurs on their excellent work. we have decided to include in our european constitution, in the treaty of lisbon, the right of citizens to ask the commission to take legislative initiatives. our citizens believed in this and have actually already started the first initiative collecting over a million signatures. the subject they have chosen is one which really concerns us all, one on which, even if there were no signatures, the commission should take the initiative. the commissioner also stressed the need to ensure that the eu's environmental policy is consistent with the principles of the kyoto protocol and the kyoto protocol, and that the eu should be able to take action to ensure that the eu's environmental policy is consistent with the principles of the kyoto protocol. i call on the commission to take this initiative.
i am informed that the seating is done by the political groups in the plenary.
dear colleagues, we have a lot of explanations of votes so we will have to be extremely strict with the time. i will cut everyone off after one minute. i apologise for this but that is the way it is going to be.
ms ronzulli, sit down and stop talking please. this is not appropriate in the chamber of the european parliament. you do not have the floor and you may not disrupt other speakers in this way. please respect this. ms alfano, please continue. i shall give you another 30 seconds.
ms ronzulli, this is the last time i am going to say this to you. if you stand up again and interrupt the sitting, i will ask you to leave the chamber. is that clear enough? do not do it again.
mr silvestris, are you applauding me or are you asking for a point of order during the explanations of votes? that is a remarkable thing to do, but go ahead.
i hope that you appreciate the fact that i allowed you to speak, although what you raised was not really a point of order. my job is not to monitor what members decide to say. my job is to ensure that they say it when they have the time to say it, as opposed to interrupting each other and doing so, i might add, in a rather rude and loud way. so thank you for your comment. i will insist, when i chair at least, that members conduct themselves in a civil way with each other, and i will try to keep the time as best i can. what members say in the room, in a democratic room such as this, is their business, not mine. ***
in writing. the adoption of the community's 2011 budget by the ep, just a few days after its previous rejection, proves that the whole process is a malicious game of diversion from the essence of the budget, which is the even better service of big capital in an attempt to burden the workers with the burdens of the economic crisis and the intensified imperialist interventions of the eu. this well-planned game has at the same time highlighted the intense inter-imperialist rivalries and the confrontation of the community institutions over which one will serve the interests of the bourgeoisie more effectively after the adoption of the treaty of lisbon. it has long been decided to accept the reduction of the minimum funds that could be used for the poor peasants, workers and the self-employed, as well as the increase of funds directed to the monopoly groups, the services and infrastructures of politico-military intervention, persecution and repression of the workers' and popular movement. the political voices of the capital cannot be saved from being swept away by such trickery. their role is revealed daily. workers and the popular strata are intensifying their struggles against the policies of the eu and bourgeois governments, opening up new prospects for a popular economy that will serve their own needs and not those of capital.
in writing. i voted against the report on credit rating agencies. these rating agencies serve the interests of international speculators in an unveiled manner. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. by deliberately and arbitrarily downgrading the creditworthiness of countries, inside and outside the eu, they are leading them into a vicious cycle of devaluation - speculative lending. the increase in spreads means that the budgetary problems of the countries are being exacerbated and that they are being enriched at the expense of the markets. in the euro area in particular, the role and practices of credit rating agencies also contribute negatively to the stability of the euro. the eu has a major political responsibility, as it has given them the right to assess not only businesses but also the economies of the member states. i believe that effective measures must be taken immediately to put an end to the speculative nature of rating agencies and that regulation 1060/2009 must therefore be radically amended. the report contains some positive but unfortunately weak proposals and only makes tentative steps in this direction.
in writing. the agreement reached by the european parliament and the council on the regulation on the so-called 'citizens' initiative', accompanied by cowardly triumphal chants to strengthen the democratic institutions of the eu, is just another attempt to manipulate and provoke the people. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. apart from the procedural conditions agreed for the collection of 1 000 000 signatures requesting the commission to take a legislative initiative, the substance remains: the commission has no obligation to propose a legislative initiative and no commitment to its content. on the contrary, this kind of "citizens' initiative", guided and manipulated by the mechanisms of capital and the bourgeois political system, can be used by the eu institutions to present the most anti-people and reactionary choices of the eu and the monopolies as a so-called "people's demand". moreover, such "initiatives" will be used to countersign the signatures, the memorials and the petitions to the organized popular and workers' movement, to the mass militant popular mobilizations and struggles, to the variety of forms of struggle. the various 'civic initiatives' cannot hide the reactionary face of the eu, nor will they prevent the intensification of the class struggle and popular struggles.
in writing. i voted in favour of the citizens' initiative report, knowing full well that it is merely a means of expressing the will of the citizens of europe and not a powerful tool for participation or overturning existing policies. the commission has tried to limit this right of citizens to the last, and the final text does not meet the real expectations, for example by introducing very complex procedures for the implementation of the right. unfortunately, important amendments by the euro left group were also rejected, with the result that eu residents cannot sign initiatives if they are not nationals of a member state, which excludes equal participation of all residents regardless of nationality, and also does not ensure that signatures will not be identified with the identity number of the signatories. however, the draft text is a much better version of the one originally proposed, since it sets the threshold at one quarter of the member states, proposes the immediate registration of initiatives and the obligation for the commission to hold a public hearing for each successful initiative, as well as ensuring full transparency in the financing of each initiative.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the eu today. this report adds value by clarifying the role of the eu institutions in the new european architecture of fundamental rights, especially after the lisbon treaty, and by proposing to enhance transparency, democratic scrutiny and access to documents between the union institutions. as regards the charter of fundamental freedoms, which is now binding and covers a wide range of rights, the commission is invited to draw up an annual report on compliance with the charter's provisions and an evaluation of the implementation of the various rights.
madam president, the new 2010 employment in europe report underlines that young people have borne the brunt of the crisis, that young people are facing more and more problems, with unemployment affecting mainly those aged 15-24. it is not enough to identify the problem, madam president; we have to figure this out. we have three million unemployed in the european union. commissioner, please, what are we going to do? i appreciate all the efforts you have made to document the problem but the problem must be solved and your role is historic. the worrying thing for greece, the country from which i come, is that unemployment among young people aged up to 24 has reached 27.5%, an astonishing, very dangerous figure, and the most worrying thing is that unemployment rates do not decline with the acquisition of more formal qualifications. you know, employment is not just a living; it's the basis of human dignity. we must give our young people dignity.
in writing. the economic governance package proposed by the committee provides for the strictest discipline in the stability pact, budgetary surveillance, and even proposes sanctions for 'unruly' member states. it is the recipe, in a worse version, that has led the eu into crisis and recession and dramatically exacerbated social problems. the commission's approach, which calls for institutional changes, is leading to a further worsening of social and regional disparities. the most adverse social effects, which my colleagues are asking about in their question, are therefore well known. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the economic and social consequences of the single market. the european parliament must oppose this policy which, in addition to the harsh austerity measures and the cuts in labour rights, also undermines its role and that of the national parliaments. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
i should like to congratulate mrs andrikienė on her comprehensive report. i have to remind all of us that the ancient greeks 2,500 years ago said, "man is the measure of all things". the latins, the romans, two centuries later had said "homo homini lupus" (man to man is a wolf). i would like to see, madam president, whether the ancient greek saying is philosophical rhetoric or whether we have moved on. we have certainly made progress, but we have not achieved the desired result in safeguarding human rights, and unfortunately the economic and financial crisis that has broken out in europe and throughout the world has created a huge problem and has mainly affected the poorest social strata, depriving them of the human right to basic self-respect. we must not stop at words, madam president, mrs ashton, we must do something, we must take the necessary measures to protect the social fabric, to combat social exclusion and, above all, to provide employment for young people. i remind you again: employment is not a livelihood; the european union is not a political entity, but a political entity, and it is not a political entity.
the european union, madam president, in accordance with its principles and values, defends human rights in the world. but there is still a lot to be done, and the treaty of lisbon is going to improve our efficiency in this area. it is the conviction of all of us in the european parliament that action for human rights defenders must continue. the correct application of existing tools can provide a framework for their protection. the ratification of all international treaties against torture and other inhuman treatment must be given high priority. the inclusion of a human rights clause in all trade agreements with third countries and the monitoring of its implementation are essential pressure measures and we must insist on them. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens is a welcome step towards the creation of a european union directive on carcinogens and mutagens.
madam president, the situation in afghanistan is of great interest to the international community, not only because there are military forces there but because there are forces developing and will develop in the future that will launch terrorist attacks and create problems for the international community. the truth is, and we have to admit it, that in afghanistan since the 14th century there were still forces of this kind, fundamentalist and terrorist. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the drug problem cannot be suppressed by crops. the united nations crop program has actually failed. it is precisely afghan opium, which is considered the best, as experts say, that funds all the activities in afghanistan and pakistan and elsewhere. so it needs repression, but above all it needs what you yourself said, namely an effort in development, an effort in the health sector, in reducing child mortality, namely to show these people a model that they will love, like and want for their quality of life afterwards, so that they can integrate it into their perception. and of course, such a model will help women, because it's a monumental case the situation the taliban have led women into. the commission has already taken the initiative in the area of the fight against racism and xenophobia. things would be even worse there. the european union must remain, baroness ashton, and your interventions must be continuous and must remain with its european face, which is precisely what you yourself have mentioned.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the outcome of the nato summit in lisbon.
the historic nato summit in lisbon, madam president, was a turning point in the future course of the alliance. twenty-eight allied countries took important decisions, adopted a new defence doctrine, laid the foundations for closer cooperation with russia, clarified the question of the missile shield, approved an action plan for afghanistan, reaffirmed the importance of cooperation with the european union. but that is the overall and optimistic picture. it should not be forgotten that these texts, as a result of consensus, express the minimum common denominator of positions and opinions. it is well known that in the post-cold war environment there are divergences and different degrees of threat perception, e.g. differently eastern european states view relations with russia, differently turkey treats iran's nuclear programme. the commission is also aware that ankara has fought a diplomatic battle to ensure that there is no reference to it in the lisbon texts. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the peace process, and that the european union is able to play a full part in the peace process. i therefore believe that the european union must make full use of the new possibilities offered by the treaty of lisbon while retaining its autonomy in decision-making. we must strengthen the weight and effectiveness of the union's international presence. we need a stronger europe to have a stronger atlantic alliance.
madam president, i agree with the high representative's assessment of the lisbon meeting. it is indeed a significant turning point and a significant moment. i would like to stress that the transatlantic relationship is the key to world security and development, but on the other hand the european union must have its own voice and its own structures when necessary. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. europe must have its own defence and security system and its own voice, because only then will it be able to deal with problems such as those with turkey or other problems arising from nato member countries or non-members who deal differently with russia. i think that the commission's proposal is a good one. i think it is a matter which europe as a whole can handle at the same time as the american side. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, thank you again to all those who have contributed to a very wide-ranging debate. i will, if i may, try and pick up some of the key points that were made and at least begin to give you responses to that. the first thing to say is that i am committed to trying to find ways forward in the relationship between the european union and nato, but i do not underestimate the political issues that sit at the heart of this question. my objective is to find practical and pragmatic ways in which increased collaboration can help support our people on the ground. the people in theatre, the people in operations, are those who are most in my thoughts when i look at how we can collaborate together. but i do so with the knowledge that turkey has an important role to play, and i do so in the knowledge that i represent 27 member states, and i work closely with the member states who are most interested and affected by the issues at hand. we are moving forward to try and achieve that as swiftly as we possibly can. but i do not underestimate the challenges, and i am always looking at and interested in ideas for how we might do that. i accept that we want also to look very carefully at what we do ourselves and make sure that what we do is complementary and not duplicating other work. actually the areas that we are working in are indeed very complementary. the example that was given earlier was of ocean shield off the coast of somalia and the work we are doing with operation atalanta. honourable members who have visited the area will know it is a huge expanse of sea, where there is plenty of room for complementary activity and very little risk of duplication, and indeed the services work very well together. commander howes who is in charge of operation atalanta at the present time was speaking with the defence ministers, making this very point that indeed there was a lot of connectivity in communication, but an awful lot of work that can be done satisfactorily together. mr gahler raised a number of points which were not connected to this debate and i would just like to suggest to him that if he writes me a quick note about those issues i am happy to come back to him, but i did not want to take parliament’s time this evening on issues that were not on this debate itself. concerning questions about missile defence, as far as i can see what happened was that a balance was found during those negotiations on nato’s new strategic concept between the issues of missile defence and nato’s nuclear posture. it is clear that nato will want to retain its nuclear deterrents while keeping with the objective that it set itself on a nuclear-free world. that is the approach we are taking today but of course we do not participate in all aspects of nato for exactly the reasons that have been well understood in this house. we were not participating, for example, in the nato-russia council meetings so it is not possible for me to comment on what happened there, only, as i have already done, to comment on the issues that came out of it. in terms of start, the progress we have seen between the united states and russia on demilitarisation is to be welcomed and i believe will pave the way for better coordination with nato, which was certainly the objective that the secretary-general has set himself. finally, structured cooperation: will it happen, what is being done? it is indeed for member states to come forward with ideas. there are already examples where member states, such as the uk and france, or in the letter that has come to me from the weimar triangle group, have been looking at ways in which they can enhance that collaboration, partly through the european defence agency as well, where we have opportunities to try and develop those synergies as appropriate. i hope and expect to see more of that in the future. particularly i expect this with the forthcoming presidencies, especially with poland which has made defence issues something they wish to focus on. there are no examples i can give the honourable member that would suggest there is an opportunity to join in, but i hope that we will see objectives coming forward that enhance the possibilities of being able, in this economic crisis, to use our resources most effectively.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
in writing. – for the first time since the second world war, russia has been invited to join the missile shield effort, something which can only be marked as a milestone for the alliance. russia’s answer remains to be seen, and there is potentially a real partnership with the us, whereby both would have to come to the table committed. furthermore, this project needs major european financing, and this is not going to be easy with european defence cuts. lastly, afghanistan will be the big political test for nato in the years to come. the us acted quickly to reassure russia that the missiles were in fact not targeted at them. it was crucial for the us not to aggravate russia, and they proved they had no such intention by also inviting russia to take part in the missile shield scheme. secondly, the us was wise enough not to mention the name of iran or, to put it correctly, granted the wishes of turkey, which threatened to back out if its neighbour (iran) was mentioned. the problem is that only 21 of the 27 eu member states are in nato, posing a threat to the development of european defence.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in côte d'ivoire.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, i will be brief because i think that all one might have wished to say has been expressed very well. mr preda, again, thank you to you and your team for your courage and your work during the elections. i commend you. there are two quick points i want to make. of course i have kept in touch with ban ki-moon throughout. he and i spoke at the very beginning of this crisis and discussed how outrageous the situation was, and we agreed to collaborate very fully. equally i have been ensuring that the eu representatives on the ground are cared for: we have contingency plans in place for their safety, as you would expect. i also want to answer the specific question that was raised about the sanctions. i am expecting the list to be ready within the next few days. we want to get on with this as quickly as possible and to keep the pressure on as much as possible. there is a real danger of violence and there is a real danger of ambiguity around what is happening. we need to be very firm and very clear and to work as collaboratively as possible with the international community to keep the pressure on as heavily as we possibly can, and to do the things required to get a satisfactory resolution. i am extremely grateful for the support in this house for the work that we are doing.
i have received six motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 110 (4) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 16 december 2010 at 12.00 noon. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the mr president, commissioner, the formation of a european consciousness that respects and defends multiculturalism is a major challenge for the european institutions in their efforts to achieve broad cohesion and solidarity among the citizens of the member states of the european union. knowing our history, becoming familiar with our multicultural cultural heritage and informing the younger generation about the ideas and people who led the way in building the european union can help to bridge the gap between the european union and its citizens. the european commission, under a mandate from the council of the european union, has undertaken to draw up a proposal to convert the intergovernmental european cultural heritage label into a community institution. the results of a wide public consultation and an impact assessment showed that the inclusion of the institution in european initiatives would help to improve the visibility and credibility of the label, subject to clearly defined criteria and with an emphasis on the symbolic rather than the aesthetic character of a monument or site, to declare that european history is the result of a rich and complementary common cultural heritage and that the european union is rooted in strong values such as freedom, democracy, respect for human rights, cultural diversity, tolerance, solidarity. we initially approached the mark very ambitiously; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has been able to take a number of initiatives in this area, and whether he is aware that the commission has been able to take a number of initiatives in this area. - and off our continent. at present it seems more realistic to use it as a means of deepening the cohesion of the peoples of the union and to limit it initially to the territories of its member states. in the commission's proposal for the award of the label to a maximum of 27 venues per year, we proposed that the procedure be repeated every two years in order to safeguard the institution's prestige and to allow time for the selection of venues and the evaluation of their progress after the label has been awarded. we agree that transnational spaces should be favoured because of the symbolic value of the label as a factor contributing to european integration, because they support cohesion, promote networking and encourage cooperation between states or regions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quota is not exceeded. for practical reasons, one member state will be the coordinator in contacts with the european expert group and the commission. we have seen the conversion of the label not as an administrative transformation of the old intergovernmental institution, but as a new institution with clearly defined selection criteria and binding obligations on the part of its recipients in order to preserve it. the expert group, networking, symbolism and monitoring of the brand owners suggest a different approach which should not be considered identical to the previous one of the transnational institution. for this reason, and in order to preserve the existence of the old institution and to promote the prestige of the new one, we considered that the transitional provisions of article 18 in the commission proposal were not necessary. we also looked at ways of strengthening the role of the group of twelve in the commission's text, by adding another member to be nominated by the committee of the regions, and we tried to involve the group more in the process of awarding or withdrawing the label. in the same context, and in order to strengthen the role of the european parliament, we insisted on the commission's obligation to publish a complete list of pre-selected sites before the final selection and to inform the european parliament and the council thereof. this will give the european parliament and the council sufficient time to react in case any issues arise. in conclusion, i should like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, the commission and the council for their creative contribution to the report which you are about to vote on. i hope that we will cooperate in the same spirit in the next stage of the consultation.
mr president, i too would like to congratulate mrs paliadeli, our rapporteur, on her excellent report and on all the work she has done so far. the new sign for our cultural heritage is intended to highlight our culture, to highlight the european spirit and to answer all of us who often visit certain places in europe and think that it is a pity that we do not highlight this supervalue of europe, all these monuments that we so need to highlight. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. the european union is a great example of the european union's ability to act in a democratic way, and it is a great example of the european union's ability to act in a democratic way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
member of the commission. − mr president, it seems that the majority of members who took the floor stressed the importance of this european initiative and the real added value of it. they stressed the importance of this initiative in promoting europe, the common european history and heritage, the educational value of this initiative and its significance in creating and encouraging more cultural dialogue. i am very pleased and very grateful for this approval. i would like to make it clear that the experts who are going to be appointed for the decisions on this important initiative will certainly have the highest professional credentials to make sure that they choose not only the best and highest value sites, but also ideas. let me remind you that this heritage is not only about sites, but also about intangible cultural heritage. for example, in portugal we have the decree which was the first decree in europe abolishing the death sentence. that was included with the list of labels, so this heritage can be intangible as well. i also want to clarify that our purpose is indeed to have a simplified procedure – quality but simplification is important. that is why we have not accepted the council’s proposal that after the experts’ group the initiative would go to comitology, as that would create red tape and waste valuable time for the decision to be adopted. i would like to finish by saying that in these times of economic crisis which create divisions between the peoples of europe politically, socially and economically, we need initiatives like this which will bring the people of europe together. they will have a sense of identity, and we have to stress the importance of our common cultural heritage whose richness does indeed lie in its diversity. common but diverse cultural heritage is what will unite us. i would like to thank you once again for your support, especially ms paliadeli and the shadow rapporteurs for this excellent cooperation we had, and i am looking forward to the final adoption of this important initiative in the near future.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the mr president, i should like to start by saying that i share the view expressed in the impact assessment on the heritage label and its political added value. the sign alone cannot bridge the gap between citizens and the european union. it can only contribute, along with other initiatives, to tackling the problem. i cannot, of course, ignore the fact that in times of crisis, such as the one we have been experiencing in the last year with a savage attack on the euro and the european union, its citizens do not look to culture alone to solve their basic problems of life. however, knowledge of history and respect for multiculturalism can be a tool for cohesion and a driving force for the development of local communities, inviting them to cooperate at local, regional, national and transnational level, as the commission proposal states and we have accepted. in this respect, the idea of a european union cultural heritage label - thank you, mr ivan, for recalling the original proposal - which aims to raise the awareness of european citizens of their common heritage while supporting cultural tourism is a positive step in this direction. values such as democracy and freedom which date back to europe's cultural past are as important as transparency and solidarity for our times, especially if we wish to bridge the gap between the european institutions and the citizens of the member states of the union and the gap between the citizens of the member states themselves. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is no doubt that the institution will operate with absolute purity.
mr president, i fully recognize the need to ensure a level playing field within the union for producers who have complied with the increased requirements imposed by the directive. at the same time, however, we must support producers who commit themselves to compliance but are unable to cope with the high cost of adaptation within the time-limit. it is envisaged that non-compliant products will not be allowed to be legally disposed of and traded within the community as from 1 january 2012. at the same time, products with lower animal welfare standards will continue to be imported from third countries. at the same time that many plants in the union are in danger of being closed down in order to improve animal welfare, products from third countries will be imported which do not even meet the standards currently in force in the union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal welfare system is properly implemented.
mr president, commissioner, although all european producers should respect community legislation and make the necessary adjustments in good time, it is estimated that 30% of egg producers will not have made them by 1 january 2012. this is unfortunately the reality that shows us that the european commission has failed to convince producers that this means a benefit for them, and a policy which has not convinced the very people directly concerned to protect it is difficult to succeed, whatever police measures are imposed. we believe that an integrated approach, linking the cost of investment to the benefit to both producer and consumer of the use of enriched cages, would be more persuasive for producers to adopt the measure and certainly such an approach cannot but secure the distinct differentiation of the european product on the basis of quality, safety and animal welfare characteristics, in order to protect it against unfair competition on unequal terms from third countries, as we fear may happen.
in writing. the two reports on human rights in the eu and the world are a challenge to workers, who in conditions of capitalist crisis are groaning under the brutal attack of eu-capital-bourgeois governments against their rights and lives, to pay the burden of the crisis by saving the profits of the monopolies. it takes great courage for the political representatives of the capital to proclaim the eu as the guardian of human rights, at the same time as the eu adopts the new, even more reactionary doctrine of nato 2020, takes the lead in the exploitation of peoples and natural resources, supports inhuman and reactionary regimes. at the same time, labour and social rights, won through hard and bloody struggles, are being slaughtered in all eu member states, popular and workers' struggles are being brutally suppressed, the persecution of migrants and racism is intensifying, fundamental civil liberties and democratic rights are being curtailed, in a number of member countries, communist parties are being declared illegal and communist symbols are being banned. the usual references to the alleged violation of human rights in cuba and other countries that resist the plans of imperialism, have the character of crude threats, blackmail and pressure to crush the resistance of the peoples, so that they give up their right to freely determine their own destiny.
in writing. i voted against the report on the new strategy for afghanistan. the report does indeed contain a number of positive points, it acknowledges the unfavourable aspects of the reality and the responsibility of the international community and more specifically of nato, the eu and the member states which have been involved in various ways in the war in afghanistan and the 'management' of the 'reconstruction'. the report also highlights that the distribution of money and international aid is not reaching the afghan people. it also shows how negative and irrational the presence of foreign troops in afghanistan is, since, apart from the human casualties, it also shows the worsening of the situation in terms of the poverty of the afghan people, the level of respect for women's rights, the exponential growth of opium cultivation or even the creation of mafias and corruption through the privatization of security by the us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the eu welcomes the "new counter-insurgency policy" by adopting president obama's timetable, calls for greater eu alignment with nato and the us, recognises the effectiveness and need for troops to provide security in the region.
in writing. the war against workers, the self-employed and small farmers is a strategic choice of the bourgeois governments and the eu in order to support the profitability of capital. the debt and the deficit are just the pretexts. all national governments in the eurozone and eu member countries are called upon to accelerate the adoption and implementation of even more savage, barbaric anti-worker and anti-people measures in a coordinated eu-ecb-imf manner. the summit will create the 'support mechanism' which is essentially a bankruptcy mechanism. the debate on resources and the involvement of private capital is ashes in the eyes of the workers. the aim is to prevent the plutocracy from going bankrupt. the capitalist class is making the markets the ultimate regulator of community mechanisms and is amending the treaty of lisbon to that end in order to ensure its profitability by the excessive exploitation of workers and the plundering of the wealth they produce. it imposes enhanced economic governance to control capitalist restructuring and intensifies the attack on the lives and rights of workers. this full-scale attack by capital and the plutocracy makes it imperative to rally the people and radically overturn the correlation of forces in favour of the people's alliance, the disengagement from the eu for the people's power and economy.
