mr president, ‘let us not allow fear to guide us’, we often say. some people question whether our airport security measures are too tight. well, the detroit terror attempt made us realise that our security systems are not excessively tight, but are still rather unsatisfactory. as you all know, the slovakian secret service placed plastic explosives in the bag of a slovakian citizen. the passenger, as well as the bag, got on board without any problems and landed in ireland. no doubt the test was spectacular; but certainly it did not strengthen the belief of citizens that security on the one hand and the right to privacy on the other hand are taken seriously by the authorities. citizens are flooded with conflicting information and misinterpretations in the press on a daily basis. after detroit, to give you an example, the spotlight is on body scanners as the best solution. (the chair cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, in principle, the union is founded on the principles of liberty, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the rule of law, which are common to the member states. but unfortunately only in principle, because slovakia violates the fundamental principles of the european union on a daily basis, and that is why i am calling on the european parliament to take the necessary legal steps to suspend slovakia's membership of the eu until it withdraws its extremely racist language law that humiliates hungarians on a daily basis. but in the carpathian basin, unfortunately, not only slovakia is in violation of the principles of the european union, but also in romania there is a political offensive to suppress the hungarian minorities. the exclusion of the hungarians in the region of over 300,000 people has made it time to make the issue of self-determination in the region of mýrdal, in addition to the autonomy of the szeklerland, the subject of public discussion.
mr president, the spanish presidency is in fact launching a new institution in the european union – the trio presidency. there have of course been earlier trios, but this is the first to have elaborated a coordinated programme and, equally, the first under the lisbon treaty. the two other member states making up the trio presidency are belgium and hungary. from the hungarian perspective, what is particularly valuable in the new institution is the opportunity to offer our own distinctive contribution to the process. among other questions to be dealt with by the trio presidency and of particular concern is the growing problem of water shortage in europe. for the first time in its history, europe is facing a potential water shortage. given its strategic location, hungary is uniquely placed to put this issue on the european agenda.
three short questions. first, the scientist who led iran's nuclear research was recently murdered in a brutal act of terrorism. what is the european union's position on this issue? interestingly, that was not the case today: i missed her very much. second, why exactly is iran's nuclear capability a bigger problem, a bigger threat to peace, than, say, israel's? why is the european union not doing something about it? third: in hungary, in 2006, the then socialist and liberal government fired into a crowd of peaceful protesters. including the eye safety of 14 people. many people have gone blind. despite our repeated requests, the european union was not willing to deal with this at the time, nor has it since. what's the difference? nor do they deal with the hundreds of political prisoners in hungarian prisons. there are still dozens of political prisoners in hungary. thank you very much. i'll wait for your answer.
it was a shock to me when i was at a food conference and i saw a sign in the hands of the african delegation that said, "don't feed africa". we better realize that africa doesn't need aid, it needs food self-sufficiency. in a peculiar way, the interest of the african farmer and the african population is the same as the interest of the farmers and the population of, say, the post-communist countries of eastern europe, or it is absurd for the french farmer and the population to have the local farmers themselves decide what they want to produce, how they want to produce it, and sell it on the local market. and it's in the interest of the local population to have access to locally produced, healthy, high-quality food. two different logics, the logic of liberalized global free trade and the logic of food self-sufficiency. we should be much more firm in our support for food self-determination.
as a hungarian and a criminal lawyer, i should be ashamed that in two cases, when speaking here in the european parliament today about the lack of legal guarantees in criminal proceedings, my colleague, who is also of a different political persuasion, mentioned hungary as a deterrent example. although i am ashamed, i am forced to agree with them because i have had similar experiences myself and i ask them and all of you, the few representatives who are still here in the room when this important issue is being discussed, to think through that if such serious violations were experienced by foreigners who are completely indifferent to the hungarian state and the hungarian government politically, then what must be the position of those who are opponents of the hungarian government because they are political opponents of the government. now 15 people are in prison for nine months in pretrial detention, who tried to speak out against the corruption cases of the hungarian government. they were retaliated against, incidentally, by a terrorism charge, a criminal charge that has no basis in fact. to this day, no evidence has been found, because the authorities feel no obligation to flag any evidence, and they are being held in pre-trial detention, under circumstances such as those you have experienced, away from their families, the public, the press. i ask that we all come together and do something to normalize the situation in hungary, and that the lack of legal guarantees for criminal proceedings cannot be abused for political reasons, and that such guarantees should be in place in hungary.
in writing. although two existing european laws deal with trafficking in human beings and its victims, in practice eu member states often regard these persons as illegal immigrants. it's very important to distinguish between the two. illegal immigrants are often forced by economic or social circumstances to leave their own country and arrive illegally in the eu by their own choice. but those involved in trafficking do not have a free, informed decision about this. they are to be treated as victims. eu member states need to provide adequate protection for victims. not only should they be provided with legal or physical protection, but also medical, psychological support, social rehabilitation and residence permits for those who cooperate with the authorities while the trafficking case is being investigated. it is also important that the commission, through information campaigns, helps people who are potentially at risk to know their rights, opportunities and risks, both within the eu and in third countries, and that it does everything possible to ensure that member states properly transpose and implement the relevant european law. given that the issue of trafficking in human beings is also closely linked to the remit of several commissioners, including the commissioner for home affairs and justice, the commissioner for human rights and the commissioner for labour, it would be worthwhile to consider the appointment of an interdepartmental coordinator to effectively mediate in order to address the problem appropriately.
in writing. – women and children are the principal victims of human trafficking. when a new council framework decision will be formulated regarding human trafficking, women and children have to be put at the centre of action. therefore i agree with opinions stating that gender-specific violence data must be collected throughout the european union as soon as possible. victim protection costs money, and this life-saving money should be spent wisely. we should bear in mind that without reliable and comparable data we will not be able to locate resources to the appropriate places in an appropriate manner. we also have to be aware of the fact that different member states and especially different cultures handle the problem differently. there are member states where victim protection is well organised and reachable for everyone, like in spain, and there are member states where it is almost a non-issue. that means that we not only need to locate resources wisely, but we also have to come up with practical and statistical solutions (namely with a minimum european standard at least) in order to tackle the latency problem, and in order to draw attention to this question where it is needed.
it is very significant, and symbolic, that the prime minister of a country which now has the highest unemployment rate in the european union is talking about the importance of job creation. i would therefore like to ask the president of the spanish government what are the most important measures, very specifically, to achieve the objective of reducing unemployment, not only in spain but also in europe. the spanish government's programme is enormously ambitious. it wants to adopt a new strategy for growth and employment. at the same time, the lisbon programme, which envisaged the transformation of europe into the most competitive region in the world, is being forgotten. how can a new strategy be envisaged and prepared within a month if the reasons for the failure of the previous programme are not analysed beforehand?
i would like to highlight the common objectives of recovering from the economic crisis and creating jobs. we all know that there are already signs of recovery in some countries, but this is not yet felt in the employment situation. in the union, citizens need jobs most of all. this is the only way to renew the lisbon strategy. we must ensure that the new eu 2020 programme does not repeat the mistakes of the lisbon strategy. we don't know yet what makes it different, more authentic than its predecessor. so far, all we're hearing is some pretty big slogans and a very tight approval process. if we involve the european parliament in the process, it is impossible to complete the procedure before the end of the semester. what is needed is a mature and coordinated program, not a sudden, confused communication effort. so let us consider the following. how do we divide responsibility between the member states and the union? how do we monitor the implementation of the strategy? who are we trying to position with this new strategy? how will it represent the interests of all the regions of the union, rather than just certain sectors, companies or countries? how do we combine cohesion and structural policy? i'm sure there's no time to answer all these questions in a hurry. haste is the price of quality. i would like to draw attention to two issues of pan-european importance among the objectives of the forthcoming hungarian presidency. one is that we are preparing a sustainable european water management strategy, because water is a common resource. this is linked to the danube as a green corridor concept. the other objective is to position the european regions. we need to tap into the power of these communities.
i too would like to wish the spanish presidency, the first of the trio of presidencies under the treaty of lisbon, every success. the 2020 strategy has been repeatedly described as key to overcoming the crisis. however, this is a matter for the member states, whose policies are within their competence, and they bear a very heavy responsibility. i would like to point out that we have community policies, we have a community budget, which can also serve as a means of reducing the effects of the crisis. in this respect, it is very important that the negotiations on the new budgetary period start as early as 2011 and that the commission submits its proposal in this respect so that we can develop these policies, and i would ask the commission to make sure that this happens in time.
i would like to thank you, mr. president zapatero. you talk about the importance of change, and you cite the global economic crisis as the reason, which you say is the worst in 80 years and has cost 8 million jobs. the measures listed are worth supporting, but they do not represent a real turnaround. the lessons of the crisis need to be learned and a real change in economic policy is needed. do you agree that a liberalised market is incapable of self-regulation? do you agree that liberal dogma needs to be reviewed? do you agree that the regulatory role of the community needs to be increased and that state intervention is essential even in the midst of a market economy? i'd be honored if you'd answer.
in writing. i was pleased to note that the objectives of the spanish presidency include the promotion of equal opportunities for men and women, both in the european labour market and in agricultural development and in relations with third countries. it is also welcome that the programme focuses on combating gender-based violence and protecting victims of such crimes, and that it highlights, among the general objectives, the role of gender equality in the growth of the european union. it is a very important development that in the chapter on action against discrimination, the presidency promises to reduce the gender pay gap, to promote the roadmap for gender equality 2011-2015, to set up a european observatory on gender-based violence and to organise a forum to assess the achievements and future challenges of the un's beijing plan of action. while the programme does not mention its plans for the social inclusion of roma, i sincerely hope that the presidency will continue the work started by its predecessors and, in particular, in the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion, will make every effort to promote the social and economic integration of europe's largest and most vulnerable minority, the roma. i also hope that the spanish presidency will make a significant contribution to the summit in córdoba on international roma day, so that we can bring the emerging european roma strategy to a head as soon as possible.
in writing. i welcome the 'innovating europe' programme presented by the spanish presidency, as it has identified as a priority the acceleration of tourism policy-making, including the promotion of the tourist's perspective on eu policies affecting the industry. to this end, the presidency is working towards a european tourism model, including group tourism. i would like to point out that the interests of disabled people must also be taken into account. the presidency also proposes that we should support intelligent transport systems in the field of transport, which i agree with, and i take this opportunity to reiterate that we should break with the legal practice that the european union has introduced and maintains as many transport regulations as there are means of transport. at present, people with different needs do not receive the same standard of transport services, although everyone is entitled to the same passenger rights. i suggest that the presidency take note of the statement made by commissioner-designate siim kallas, in which he called the right to free movement, embodied in modern transport, the fundamental freedom of european citizens. the commissioner-designate agreed to the initiative and promised to draw up a uniform code of conduct for all transport sectors. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the union's external relations.
in writing. as a hungarian representative as part of the spanish-belgian-hungarian presidency trio i welcome the spanish presidency. we have rarely heard from visiting prime ministers such a clear vision of the future of the eu, of the presidency's programme as that presented by mr zapatero this morning. i agree that without economic union, europe's global competitiveness is in jeopardy. the four priorities mentioned by mr zapatero for the next ten years are indeed the most important strategic directions. it is in the interest of the community as a whole, and in particular of the new member states, including hungary, to reduce energy dependency. without green economic growth, the digital market, the creation of a common innovation potential and the substantial development of european education, the union has no capacity for renewal. the spanish presidency is particularly welcome to intensify the debate on the future of the cap. time is running out: we must first develop the framework for the new cap so that we can allocate the budget to it, and not the other way around. otherwise, not only the cap is the beneficiary, but the community as a whole is the loser. the hungarian academy of agriculture is an important forum for dialogue on the future of the cap in hungary, and i hope that the spanish presidency will be present at its 2010 event.
madam minister! i have some surprising news for you. the copenhagen climate summit is over. you spoke of goals, of illusions, as if we were still ahead of it. the result is failure. no eligible signed commitments were made. and a good example of what volunteering means is kyoto. we know what the commitment of the united states means, but canada's example is worth mentioning. he signed the kyoto protocol, then he increased carbon emissions by 26 percent without any consequences. copenhagen is an unmistakable message about the world we live in. the world today is defined by economic fundamentalism. when human social interest conflicts with the interest of the global economy, the latter always prevails. of course, behind the global economy is a narrow power elite. to prevent irreversible climate change, another climate change is needed. to change the political and moral climate. until that happens, until people are for the economy and not the other way around, until the eco-social market economy becomes the accepted guiding principle, then other conferences like this are doomed to fail.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. copenhagen showed that it had not found partners for the eu's ambitious ideas. the eu must not lose sight of its future objectives, its commitment to 20% three times over, but at the same time it must radically rethink its negotiating positions and its mandate, because we cannot continue with the policy of the ostrich. we need to withdraw the copenhagen declarations. that mandate has not proved successful. we have not understood the commitment of china and the commitment of other developing countries. we didn't understand president obama's range of motion, and we couldn't speak with one voice. as president verhofstadt said very rightly today in the debate on the spanish presidency, there was no single voice for europe. we can't bury our heads in the sand like the ostrich. we cannot pretend that we cannot do the same politics after copenhagen as we did before copenhagen. until the mexican round, the european union must reposition itself, formulate a new mandate. first of all, we need to look at how we can achieve the 2% celsius target, which is the result of copenhagen. european diplomacy in the coming period must seek to establish a position of flexibility in order to succeed. thank you for your attention.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. let's not sugarcoat it. copenhagen is a failure. but i don't want to deal with that. i want to deal with the fact that instead of criticizing others, we sweep our own front yard. let's face it, one of the reasons for the failure was that there was no common european union position in copenhagen. not on the co2 quotas, not on the financing. i agree with those who say that a prerequisite for successful negotiations is a united european union position. that's right, you did. what do you need? this requires that both the commission and all the member states of the union adhere to the letter and spirit of kyoto. hungary, poland, romania, bulgaria, the baltic states, slovakia and the czech republic have exceeded their kyoto commitments. that's why they can sell their co2 allowances. it is not fair, it is not fair, it is not right for the commission and the other member states of the european union to want to deprive these countries of this opportunity. in copenhagen, poland and hungary made a compromise proposal. the idea is to keep the quota sale option after 2012, but to sell a certain amount each year and use the money for green investments. we have made a compromise proposal for a common european union position. now it's the commission and the 15. moreover, if only because without hungary, poland, romania and the other countries, the 15 would not be satisfied with the fact that we have fulfilled our commitment, since instead of the 8% commitment, they would only be at 5.5%. thank you for your attention.
in writing. the current liberal trade rules encourage the maximum carbon emissions. developed countries are making significant efforts to limit their carbon emissions by introducing emissions trading, promoting renewable energy sources and investing in energy efficiency. these measures represent additional costs for the companies. energy consumption in these countries is also being hit by increasing taxes. meanwhile, many developing countries are doing nothing to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. in fact, it's continually increasing its carbon dioxide emissions. instead of encouraging energy efficiency, it provides electricity at a discount to the largest industrial users. many people now say that the main comparative advantage of these countries is not cheap labor, but cheap energy. new international trade rules should therefore be introduced to prevent trade from leading to further carbon emissions. we need not just fair trade, but green trade. to that end, effective legal sanctions should be allowed to be applied if a country fails to comply with its commitments under climate agreements.
in writing. the copenhagen climate summit has not lived up to expectations. no binding commitments were made to define the future framework for international climate action. the situation is aggravated by the fact that the european union, contrary to its intentions, was unable to exert a significant influence on the outcome of the negotiations. the failure of the summit cannot be a reason for inaction. we have to accept the idea that until we have a binding international treaty for all, the focus will be on regional solutions. accordingly, the european union should also work to further fine-tune its own internal climate protection regulation. the eu legislation needs to be made more effective so as not to put european industries at a competitive disadvantage. the eu's current climate policy should not, however, put the new member states at a disadvantage, as was the case with the recently adopted internal burden-sharing legislation. in climate action, we must look for solutions that have many other side effects in addition to reducing emissions. urban transport improves quality of life, energy efficiency investments create jobs and r & d funds improve competitiveness. these aspects should be reflected in the next seven-year budget. europe cannot afford to be the victim of international climate negotiations. it must continue to play a leading role. even if it's the era of small steps in climate policy instead of big fights.
i would like to welcome the minister's statement that he would like to highlight the good examples. we all know that the european union is a seriously ageing society and that companies have a responsibility to preserve the health of people who are retiring. does the council plan to encourage companies to use the skills of retired people in the civil sector? so that they stay active and don't stop after retirement.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, the danube is one of the key ecological corridors of hungary and the union, the seventh corridor of the pan-european corridors. the role of the danube river is therefore of paramount importance, and jobbik is therefore supporting the international commitments previously undertaken by the republic of hungary in order to implement a high priority project designated by the eu commission until 2020. this development is well in line with the concept of the motorway of the sea, which was also envisaged by the union in the transport white paper. but i would like to draw my colleagues' attention to the fact that, unlike others, the movement for jobbik hungary does not want to do this for profit, but with the utmost respect for international environmental rules and regulations, so as to ensure the optimal width of the channel for the water to drain and the amount of water required for river navigation. without thereby damaging the water bases and natural values along the danube. we are convinced that the danube region can remain a stable region of europe only if we abolish the beneš decrees that discriminate against germans, austrians and hungarians once and for all. thank you for your attention.
madam president, fellow members of the house of representatives, it's a popular wisdom often quoted by politicians that we don't inherit the earth from our grandparents, we borrow it from our grandchildren. it is our responsibility to ensure that our children, our grandchildren, our great-grandchildren can breathe clean air, drink clean water. beneath the danube's banks lies a vast treasure of fresh water. my priority, and hungary's priority, is to protect this freshwater from all kinds of pollution. transportation, tourism, culture, preservation of tradition, all of these are important, but for me, the preservation of the water treasure comes before all of these. i don't know if the initiative for the danube region, which we are discussing right now, will be successful. what we agree on now are more principles, more evidence. but as we know, the devil is in the details. so i want to make it clear right now that if we're going to go beyond the principle and start arguing about the details, for me, there's a principle that i'm not going to let go of. the danube can only be used for interventions, investments, developments, that's my position, that don't threaten drinking water sources. i would like to look my children and grandchildren in the eye and tell them, without blushing, that the danube, and this is true of other european rivers, such as the tisa, has been preserved as we borrowed it from them. we didn't destroy it, so they can use it.
i would like to welcome the danube strategy. this is also taken into account in the design of several eu policies. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment by the placing on the market of certain dangerous substances. in connection with the development of the danube, the issue of education, social inclusion should not be forgotten. the strategy states that the tens should be supported. i would also like to stress the importance of ecotourism, which is the key to ensuring the future of the danube. for me, the danube connects cultures and it also connects majority cultures, which is one of the fundamental principles of the european union. i would also like to stress that we must remain on the ground of reality. we should not pursue ambitions, but only include achievable goals in the strategy, because we have known since 1830 that it requires a policy beyond nations. and it did, because count széchenyi, one of the greatest hungarians, did a lot to help make this a supranational policy. the danube strategy proves that the danube is indeed transnational.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. freshwater and food will be as strategic commodities in a decade or two as oil and gas are today. water management and water conservation are therefore of great importance for the european union as a whole, but especially for the danube region. we are currently struggling with floods, with floods, and at the same time, these waters are flowing over us, and you can see, for example, between the danube and the tisza in hungary, in the sand dunes, a very serious desertification. the danube strategy is therefore an important priority for the hungarian eu presidency in 2011. that is why i am pleased that today's debate has shown that, in a complex approach, we can simultaneously promote regional policy, environmental protection, navigability, economic development, job creation and tourism, and that the danube - as today's debate shows - can bring about reconciliation and peace between states that are in a state of mutually distorting tension, as the poet joseph attila said.
i'm glad to see the commitment that you're showing here, which is perhaps the first step in actually making what we're talking about here today a reality. the danube is of great importance to hungary. this is also reflected in the formulation of the 2011 presidency priorities. hungary is a country that lies entirely within the danube watershed, with corresponding dangers and opportunities. some of these things have been discussed. i would like to mention another aspect that also came up in our conversation today. if this strategy is successful, it can contribute to the formation of a danube identity, which can help to overcome historical injuries, traumas, help the coexistence of the danube peoples, to civil cooperation become much more intensive than before. we sincerely hope that we can move in that direction.
the next item is the commission statement on eu-tunisia relations.
the following is a list of the groups' statements.
i didn't get a signal that there was a tunisian delegation, but they waved when you told me. i'd like to welcome you to the court.
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution on the recent cases of persecution of religious minorities in egypt and malaysia. see the minutes.
it is very recent news that a few days ago the egyptian authorities arrested several coptic rights activists who had travelled to the scene of the bloody events to protect and support the coptic christian community who were killed in the najd' hammadi settlement on christmas day. the egyptian authorities, sympathetic to the muslim majority, are trying to minimize the violence against the coptic minority, and now they are also obstructing the legitimate self-defense of christians with discriminatory bias. the united states government immediately raised its voice against this. the european community should take more decisive and clear action than it has already done in defence of the nearly 1,500 coptic christians who are the indigenous people of egypt, who are often subjected to brutal repression.
i would ask the president or the presidency of the european parliament to inform the european commission that in the course of my work i have written to the commission twice in the course of six months. in the first case, i received a reply with a serious delay, and in the second case, i submitted my question on 30 november and have not received a reply to this day. i think it would be important to have a proper dialogue and communication between the institutions within the european union. please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please,
mr. president, my dear officer kovács. it's a very good thing that the european union will finally have a face in quotation marks, secretary of state cathy ashton. in his hearing, he made a statement about china, the global significance of which need not be stressed in this circle. it was shocking that a single member of parliament who had the right to ask about china did not ask about china, when recently, at the copenhagen climate summit, the union was dealt a big slap that the united states and china had agreed behind our backs. it is also shocking that the european council has never discussed the eu's relationship with china in its history. i therefore ask you, mr president, to call on the european council to put the strategic relationship between the union and china on the agenda and on the european parliament to deal with this issue in future in a way that is commensurate with the weight of china.
a few minutes ago, anna záborská, a member of parliament, mentioned the mega-investments, the various casino investments, investments by foreigners in hungary, which have been protested by györgy budaházy, the well-known leader of the opposition outside the hungarian parliament, and 12 other colleagues from the so-called opposition group hunnia, who have been in pre-trial detention for almost a year. they have no right to know the evidence against them, and because of the specificity of the hungarian legislation and the violation of the right to habeas corpus, the judge who prolongs this pre-trial detention does not take into account or examine the incriminating evidence against them. i find it outrageous that this can happen in the european union and i repeat, i object to it many times.
ladies and gentlemen, 4% gdp decline, 21 million eu citizens unemployed, 20 member states are facing deficit procedures, the national debt is 80%. in view of the situation in the eu, i ask: can we afford the luxury of billions of taxpayers going unchecked? it is unacceptable that, while we are making a lot of efforts to preserve jobs and stimulate the economy, there has been no progress at eu level so far, for example on how to promote the recovery of cross-border tax debts from the shameful 5% level. or whether we can extend automatic exchange of information uniformly across all income streams, which would avoid governments having to look for stolen media about the untaxed income of their citizens being placed here and there. the scale of tax fraud in the union is currently two and a half times the size of the total eu budget. i believe that the tax authorities of the member states should cooperate in order to detect tax fraud. we must now stop hiding behind bank notes and eliminate the quasi-tax havens within the union. even if it hurts the member states concerned. the european interest must take precedence over partial considerations. eu citizens who pay fairly expect us to make the rules binding on everyone, not loopholes. the domenici report considers how these loopholes could be closed. it is not tax harmonization that is on the agenda, but the ability of each member state to collect its own taxes, if necessary with the help of the others. all the other elements of the tax package before us are designed to do just that. i have attached to the domenici report, on behalf of the european people's party, a number of proposals which have been supported by the other groups. first, i initiated the creation of an incentive scheme to ensure that, when cross-border tax debts are recovered, the member state acting in favour of the other country also shares the tax collected. this could give a boost to the currently fledgling cooperation between tax authorities. secondly, the comparative profit method could be particularly effective against multinationals that operate with transfer pricing for the purpose of tax avoidance. i know that commissioner kovács has some doubts about this, but i think we can start work. finally, i am pleased that the commission supports the idea that the tax information requirement for 12 countries under the oecd model convention can be tightened to an agreement requirement. i think these are the paths we can take to a more equitable tax policy.
madam president, it appears that the main law or the main rule of globalised neoliberal capitalism is for a small group of the rich to privatise profit and to nationalise the losses and the damages and have it paid for by taxpayers, most of whom are poor people. what does this have to do with justice? what does this have to do with morality? or are these not concepts that can be used in the context of the economy? is this not a system that is fundamentally wrong? is there not something structurally wrong with this system? and should we not as the european parliament and the european union start reconsidering the whole structure – the whole system as such?
i would like to propose a radically new approach to the abortion issue to the european parliament. i'm asking that we end this incredible lie that abortion is somehow good for women. perhaps the measure of a woman's freedom. no, you can't. as many women and men know, abortion is a painful and harmful procedure on a woman's body and soul. so instead of talking about making abortion as easy as possible, let's talk about preventing abortion, and let's focus on helping women do that. let's help women to face planned pregnancies, and if an unplanned pregnancy occurs, an unplanned child, let's make sure that that child is also one that women, couples, can bring into the world and raise in love, because they have all the help and support to do that.
mr president, the economic crisis has underlined the fact that women’s rights and gender equality are interlinked with ongoing economic issues. in countries that have introduced gender-equality-friendly legislation, women’s representation on the labour market tends to be significantly higher, as well as the percentage of birth rate. these states tend to have a healthier economic, social and pension situation. besides, women’s salaries are of crucial importance in the family. it is clear that the upcoming eu2020 strategy needs to outline a clear commitment regarding gender-equality mainstreaming in all european policies. the strategy has to be coordinated with the new road map for gender equality and also with the future charter for women’s rights. as my colleague marc tarabella put forward in his report, women’s health and sexual rights are an equally important tool for women’s socioeconomic empowerment as well. we need to provide access to knowledge, information, medical care and assistance to give all women the choice and position of equal rights and access. i would like to say thank you for the five years i have worked together with vladimír špidla, because this is the last chance to say hello to him. thank you very much for an excellent contribution from you and from your team.
in writing. the main task of the european union's policy on promoting equality between men and women is to assess the successes and failures of the four-year roadmap that expires this year and to define the outlines of the new strategy. the roadmap for the future should as in the present place adequate emphasis on the phenomenon of multiple and sectorial discrimination and pay greater attention to the women's rights aspects of the situation of ethnic minorities. the report rightly points to the adverse effects of the global economic crisis on the situation of women, in particular in terms of employment and the gender pay gap. it is therefore essential that the new strategy takes account of the economic importance of gender equality, as gender exclusion is not only unfair but also economically disadvantageous. member states and the undertakings concerned should therefore be encouraged to integrate the gender dimension in their crisis management strategies and to avoid financial restrictions that are detrimental to equality of opportunity between men and women. the post-2010 roadmap should maintain the priorities of the previous strategy and give greater attention to poverty and social exclusion, especially in the context of the european year dedicated to this objective. the new strategy must be a real action plan with realistic, measurable objectives and much more effective coordination between the european commission and the member states in implementing them.
the european commission is the union's main decision-making body. the requirement for commissioners should be that they be the right man for the right job, the right career, the right skill set. however, the way in which commissioners are nominated and elected ensures that this positive outcome is only a matter of chance. governments don't offer you a job, they offer you a position. the nominee shall unless he resigns be the commissioner of the union. the president of the commission is trying to find a job for this person, so the order is reversed. that means i want to find a coat for the button. it is also worth mentioning that there is no vote after the hearing, but a small circle writes a letter about the hearing. you talk about democracy all the time, yet you're afraid of direct voting. whether it's the constitution of the union, a referendum, or a committee decision on a possible candidate. during the hearings, the commissioners-designate were hardly specific. they didn't want to commit, they didn't want to be held accountable. however, it is clear that they are not breaking with the previous commission, they want a centralised europe, they have not learned the lessons of the financial crisis and they are pursuing a liberal economic policy. that is why many of us will not vote for this commission, and that does not make us anti-european, but simply do what our electorate - millions of european citizens - expect of us.
mr president, mr barroso, you are a very good man. in a significant number of european languages, when something works, it is "working" and when something works, it is expressed by many similar words. we are now at a moment for the european union when we can say 'back to work europe', let's go back, let's work, let's work. the foundations for this are provided by the new treaty of the european union, the treaty of lisbon, a newly created parliament and the commission now in place. it is time to put the period of institutional debate and institutional rule-making behind us and really address and focus on the concerns and questions of the european citizens. this is crucial because we need to win back the support of the people we've lost along the way. and ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of parliament, we all have a role to play in this. you haven't always been worthy of the last few weeks and months of your procedure. for example, this parliament did not give one of the commissioners-designate the opportunity to be heard fairly. so let us criticize the commission, let us criticize the council, let us work with it, but let us also look at ourselves sometimes. the results require close cooperation between these institutions. ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the commission, i too wish you success on behalf of my party, because when i wish you success, we are not wishing success to a few individuals, but to the citizens of europe. so that europe can finally be seen by its citizens as a model of jobs, prosperity, development, active presence in the world, of equity, and so that europe can truly grow into itself under the new constitution, the treaty of lisbon. ladies and gentlemen, when my computer is down, i press the reset button. now there's even new software on this computer, called the lisbon treaty. ladies and gentlemen, let's hit this restart button.
mr president, greece is on the verge of fiscal collapse. spain and portugal are also struggling with increasing difficulties. if the european commission, the european central bank and the european council do not act, then the threat is now the disintegration of the eurozone. what we can see in this situation is the sub-optimal allocation of portfolios among commissioners. joaquín almunia, who was a safe pair of hands in managing monetary and economic affairs, is now transferred to competition, which is not his cup of tea. olli rehn, who was a very distinguished commissioner for enlargement, is now dealing with economic and monetary affairs, which is not his expertise. why is it in the interest of europe to weaken the intellectual firepower of the commission precisely in times of crisis?
the new member states are rightly concerned about the growth of national egoism and re-nationalisation within the european union. without solidarity, cohesion and the catch-up of the less developed new member states, there can be no european union. the 2020 programme must also be designed by the commission under mr barroso, not to dismantle but to preserve - reform - and strengthen existing community policies. in particular, cohesion and regional policy and the common agricultural policy. we are seeing alarming attempts to undermine these policies, in particular the common agricultural budget. the commission should develop concrete actions to prevent the global crisis from turning into an employment and social crisis. finally, the tragic situation in greece must not be allowed to lead to the conclusion that we should not further strengthen the euro area and continue our enlargement to the western balkans.
i am pleased that my colleagues in the house are so outraged by the gross human rights violations that have been committed in guantanamo in the name of counterterrorism. but i can only take this outrage seriously if you, on the occasion of my second speech, commit yourselves to an eu-wide investigation of the guantanamo issue in hungary. i repeat, in hungary, twelve people belonging to the political opposition have been in pretrial detention for nearly a year on terrorism charges, under the same conditions and with the same violation of their criminal justice rights as the guantanamo detainees. please raise your hands, fellow members, to indicate who among you would be willing to take this matter seriously and participate in a detailed investigation. i'm waiting for the president and my colleagues to shake hands.
i would like to welcome the amendments to the european regional development fund and congratulate my colleague, mr nistelrooy, on his report. the erdf funds a number of programmes that could significantly improve the living conditions of the roma, europe's largest and most excluded minority, not forgetting other groups in similar social and economic situations. it has long been a stated aim that housing measures should no longer be confined to cities, that they should extend to the construction of new housing, that these subsidies should be available to the old member states, because the problem is europe-wide. the lack of access to the eu's external borders and the lack of access to the eu's external borders are two of the main obstacles to the eu's external relations. a significant number of roma live in disadvantaged areas across europe, whose development has been supported by substantial funds. immediate and complex intervention is required. to this end, consideration should be given to allocating resources at union level exclusively for the harmonisation of certain planning statistical units of the lau. it is essential to include an integrated approach in the regulation, ensuring that the measures are carried out in the context of a wider, complex development, taking into account education, economic activity and public service aspects. in line with the european parliament's resolutions, a comprehensive community action plan across parties and cycles is needed to achieve, with adequate financial resources and binding legal force, a substantial improvement in all the relevant indicators of social exclusion.
i too would like to welcome the amendment to the erdf regulation and i think that it is now a concrete instrument that will help us to find solutions at a truly european level to improve the situation of roma communities, even though this instrument is not only for roma communities but also for other excluded communities. and i want to say to my colleagues who have spoken about immigration that, after all, when inequality decreases, when living conditions improve, that is specifically counter-immigration, and i think that's what is expected of it. i would like to mention a few aspects which must be taken into account in the regulation, in the implementation of the regulation. it is very important that these resources can be used not only in urban but also in rural environments, that they can be used for renovation but also for replacement by new housing, that reducing segregation is an important goal, that the approach is integrated, that it is done together with education, employment programmes, and in a sustainable, lasting way. let me also say that the trio presidency has a serious priority in improving the situation of roma communities. the spanish presidency is taking serious steps and the hungarian presidency will continue to do so.
in writing. – i strongly believe the commission was right to propose amendment of regulation (ec) no 1080/2006 on the european regional development fund as regards the eligibility of housing interventions in favour of marginalised communities. furthermore, i think that the council also realised the importance of the proposal in terms of underlining the need for a new integrated point of view. in central europe, and especially in hungary, there are many seriously disabled persons who are living in old, dilapidated buildings. a lot of places had served as castles or mansions before the second world war, but communism forgot them, along with the abandoned people they placed in them. i know that a lot of disadvantaged groups have special circumstances and problems, and i feel strongly that we must take the consequences of financial and economic crisis into account. we should support such amendments – in accordance with the views of civil stakeholders – that allow for much better integrated projects involving the building industry, tourism, the labour market, rural development and social integration at the same time. we cannot let european taxpayers’ money be spent on dead ends; we must focus on the real solutions.
i would like to speak to the croatian and macedonian reports. i think it is important to say that the progress of the accession process of the countries of south-eastern europe is of the european union's eminent interest, because the stability, prosperity and progress of reforms in this region are important not only for the candidate country but for the european union as a whole. for both countries, neighbourhood disputes have hindered or continue to hinder progress. i think it is very important that there is political wisdom, courage and mutual goodwill to solve these problems, not only on the part of the countries that want to join, but also on the part of the european union member states. this has been the case in croatia, and i sincerely hope that the commitment of the spanish presidency will be a major help in making progress on the macedonian-greek name dispute. hungary, as the third member of the trio, would like to take this process forward and help.
i am very pleased that commissioner füle will be a central european politician dealing with enlargement, since he knows best how much south-eastern europe, the western balkans, is burdened by ethnic and inter-ethnic conflicts and bilateral neighbourhood disputes. the western balkans and the balkans, apart from the brief period of yugoslav titanic rule, have never been stable. accession to the eu is the only way to stabilise the region, as accession in 2004 and 2007 proved, for example, by its significant positive impact on hungarian-romanian relations. at the same time, i would like to draw the attention of commissioner füle and the house to the fact that all interethnic problems, all major problems and neighbourly relations must be settled before the battle, because after accession the union is powerless. look at the unresolved problem of the russians in latvia, or look at slovakia, where the policy of the fico government has exacerbated the relationship between the slovak majority and the hungarian community. therefore, in the case of the western balkans, where these problems are even more complex, it is particularly important to address this for all countries. as a neighbour of hungary, it is extremely important that croatia should become a member of the union as soon as possible. it's very important that he face up to the responsibility of the war, the return of the refugees. this is a very important case. the negotiations with macedonia should start as soon as possible, as mr thaler has already indicated in his excellent report. finally, in the case of turkey, until the kurds are granted the widest possible autonomy, until the rights of women and sexual minorities are resolved, and until turkey apologizes for the armenian genocide, turkey cannot be a member of the union.
madam president, i should like to welcome commissioner füle and the minister. everybody will be pleased by the progress that croatia is making in the completion of its accession process. key areas of governance must be adapted to the requirements of the acquis, and some of these changes – let us be clear about this – are likely to go against the grain of tradition and expectations. so, negotiating the transformation demands a major act of political will. let me add that the effort is well worthwhile, especially for a relatively small state like croatia or, for that matter – and the same applies – for the other states of the western balkans. eu membership – i think we can take this for granted – provides a set of advantages in political, economic, cultural and security terms. the greatest problem of adaptation, though, lies elsewhere. it is one thing to change the structures of governance but it is a very different matter to change the attitudes of society to something radically different to the forms and content that have been developed in the european union. the two are frequently far from each other, and there will certainly be elements in society, some quite powerful ones at that, which will see only disadvantages for themselves in the new dispensation. let there be no illusions about this. the croatian authorities have not only to complete their negotiations with the european union but, at the same time, they must also do what they can to change social attitudes. that may turn out to be the harder task.
we need to clarify one fundamental question in connection with turkey's accession. what do we think of the european union? do we still value the values we share in europe? these values are based on christian teaching, regardless of the proportion of religious practitioners. do we value europe's cultural heritage as a unifying force? if the answer is yes, then turkey has no place in the european union. of course, we must seek the best partnership with them. another aspect is that joining would set a precedent. the israeli foreign minister said that they were patient, but they wanted to join the eu. i have to say, israel has no place in the european community.
in writing. − trafficking in human beings is one of the most serious forms of human rights violations, taking many forms, ranging from sexual exploitation and forced labour to organ trafficking and domestic servitude, and particularly affecting women and children. the community legal framework for combating trafficking in human beings is currently inadequate and it is therefore essential that the european union, on the basis of the powers conferred on it by the treaty of lisbon, take much stronger action against the phenomenon, in particular with a view to protecting and assisting groups already victims or at risk, in particular children. in this respect, the initiative to establish a european coordination post against trafficking in human beings and the call on member states to impose penalties that are dissuasive and reflect the seriousness of the crime are welcome. as a very important development, the motion for a resolution states that the consent of the victim to exploitation is irrelevant to the prosecution and that the victim is entitled to assistance regardless of his willingness to participate in the proceedings. it is also important to involve civil society as fully as possible in institutional activities to combat trafficking in human beings and to initiate information and awareness-raising campaigns for the most vulnerable groups. it is hoped that member states will soon transpose an integrated approach to prevention, retaliation and protection of victims into their domestic legal systems and take a major step towards the eradication of modern slavery by ratifying the relevant legal instruments.
in writing. − i would like to draw your attention to a seldom-emphasised aspect of evaluating the progress of the countries in question: the situation of roma. realising the importance of establishing the legal framework for anti-discrimination, by 2004 the eu managed to enforce some real improvements through hardening the accession conditions for new member states. i am happy to see that the progress reports are rather critical about the achievements of these three countries, revealing that only croatia was able to attain some slight improvement in fostering the social inclusion of roma. candidate countries must be involved in the european-level pursuit of roma integration before now, since accession negotiations grant an unparalleled opportunity to trigger a substantial shift in the governmental attitudes towards granting equal access to roma in employment, education, housing and health care, promoting political participation and empowering the romani civil movement. all european countries - present and future members of the european union - must engage in a concerted effort in order to overcome the historical social exclusion of the continent’s largest ethnic minority and sign up for a community action plan, which provides the proper legal leverage to force the participants to comply with their own pledges.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. my fellow members of the house of representatives! the range of security measures at international airports is constantly expanding as aviation security, our security, faces new and new challenges. however, many elements of the measures already taken or planned and tested to improve aviation safety go beyond the strictly necessary aviation safety measures. these issues should therefore be examined in their full context. safety is the key to our lives, the most important thing. but we feel safe only if, in the process, our rights are not disproportionately restricted, our privacy is not violated, our health is not harmed where appropriate, and, overall, the measures taken to ensure our safety are not disproportionate, unavoidable and sufficiently effective. we need tools, the use of which can be useful in body scanners: - ensures effective control of passenger traffic; - is essentially voluntary, taking into account, among others, travellers with vital medical implants (e.g. electric heart rate regulators or metal implants); - is not harmful to health, neither to children, nor to pregnant women, nor to persons who travel frequently; - does not record visual data, but is only used to provide an appropriate alert in the event of a risk. therefore, any further debate on the introduction of test scanners is only meaningful if the impact studies have been prepared which adequately analyse the above conditions. only the use of appropriate means can be acceptable to us.
in the debate on the current situation in ukraine, i ask the commission to call for a consistent and precise stand for the rights of national minorities in its relations with ukraine, in its system of relations, and to demonstrate this in all other areas, because what we have heard here today, the number of areas where there has been a setback in ukraine in recent times, is particularly true for minority persons, for education in minority languages, for the use of the mother tongue. we need to be precise and consistent because the union has the power to influence all areas of ukraine's neighbourhood policy, including its legislation on national minorities. what we've seen is that consistent signals, consistent resistance, can hopefully help to correct these problems in the right way. i suggest that any future agreement with ukraine address these issues specifically, including the right to education in the mother tongue, as it is a fundamental condition for the survival of national communities.
in writing. a new chapter in eu-ukraine relations after the presidential elections one of the main areas of cooperation will continue to be energy supply. this is no coincidence, as the increasingly dependent union is channelling a significant proportion of its energy imports through its eastern neighbour. in order to ensure energy imports, i believe it is appropriate for the european union to assist ukraine by all possible means in maintaining and renewing its energy network, in particular the vital gas pipeline system. however, in line with the conclusions of the eu summit in june, i believe that the financial support has one basic condition: ukraine must start reforming the industry, make the gas industry more transparent. the commission has also found that the ukrainian authorities have not provided any evidence that the union industry has been affected by the anti-dumping measures in force. however, efforts to increase storage capacity should also be supported. in fact, backup training is one of the main guarantees of uninterrupted european gas transit during the cold winter period. the european parliament is expected to give its blessing to the new eu gas regulation in the spring. the legislation will require member states to adopt, in consultation with each other, action plans in the event of gas supply disruptions. i believe that not only do member states need to coordinate their action plans with each other, but that ukraine also needs to be involved in the consultation process. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the eu's trade policy is not distorted by the threat of a trade war.
in writing. the european union must play a more active role in ukraine, breaking with the practice of recent years, when the european union has dealt with one of europe's largest states with uncertainty and half-heartedness. ukraine is a key partner of the european union's eastern neighbourhood policy and the most important transit country in our relations with russia. with the election of viktor yanukovych as president, ukraine has a strong, calm leader who is open to both europe and russia. the new president's main task will be to bridge the political divisions that divide the country, to build a stable government and to initiate long overdue comprehensive social and economic reforms. the european union's priority now is to make its presence in ukraine more felt than ever and to put cooperation on a new footing. the eastern partnership provides an excellent framework for this and the external action service established under the lisbon treaty provides the appropriate tools. i would like to emphasise that hungary, whose largest neighbour is ukraine, has a strong interest in creating and maintaining political and economic stability in ukraine. we also have an interest in the consolidation of relations between ukraine and russia. we also strongly hope that ukraine will abandon its anti-minority policy which has undermined the rights of transcarpathian minorities, including the hungarians.
i want to talk about two issues: the trade deficit and co2 emissions. the article rightly points out that the growth of the trade deficits of the european union and the united states contributed greatly to the global economic crisis. the european union increased its trade deficit from 75 billion to 243 billion between 2004 and 2008. triple in four years. this means that each european citizen consumed €500 more than he or she produced in 2008. such a trade deficit, consumption exceeding production to such an extent, cannot be sustained. so we need to take action to reduce the trade deficit, because if we don't do it consciously, the laws of economics will spontaneously force it out. and the social cost of that is much, much higher. what is happening in greece right now is an example of this. as regards energy, it is not only protectionism but also price support for energy sources that distorts world trade. many developing countries promote the use of oil, obtain it at a lower price than the world market price, and also support the use of electricity from budgetary resources. meanwhile, in europe, producers have to pay taxes, they have to pay carbon quotas if they want to use energy for production. it became clear in copenhagen that the developing countries are blocking the climate agreement, they are not willing to accept the sanctions that come with the reduction. measures to circumvent this need to be taken, because now several economists point out that china has a greater comparative advantage in cheap carbon emissions than in cheap labour. if we don't reduce our energy consumption, we risk being repeatedly... (the president shall withdraw the floor. )
the fundamental question is whether global free trade, the current system led by the wto, is good for people, or whether we should think about a new governing principle that would not necessarily be called protectionism, but rather economic self-determination. i would suggest that we look at exactly what these two different governing principles mean in three areas. what does global trade in its current form and scale mean for job creation and retention in europe, especially when we think of the retailers, small businesses, family businesses, small farmers in european countries who are losing and losing their opportunities because of the current global, liberalised world trade? so when we think about solidarity, is it good for poor, developing countries to have to open up their markets instead of developing their agriculture, their industry? is it good for the environment to have to transport it over such distances? i would suggest that as a first step, at least in terms of agriculture and food, we think hard about introducing the principle of food self-determination, which means that communities, countries, have the right to decide what they want to produce, how they want to produce it, how they want to sell it. and consumers have a right to good quality, healthy, nutritious food, which we know is not food shipped thousands of miles away, but food that is locally grown, locally processed and locally sold.
in writing. the contraction in world trade has particularly affected the countries of central and eastern europe, as the decline in demand has been concentrated on products (automobiles, consumer electronics, etc.) which have played a significant role in exports. at the same time, these countries were also strongly affected by the credit crisis. in order to overcome the difficulties of the double constraint and the resulting social problems (e.g. rising unemployment), it would be very important to boost exports. in this respect, the financing of exporters in particular appears to be a significant obstacle, given the delayed payment deadlines, the increased cost and difficulty of obtaining credit and the deteriorated conditions of credit insurance. therefore, programmes should be developed for these countries, in particular for eu member states, which could help overcome these difficulties.
i would like to extend a warm welcome to commissioner barnier, who i would like to wish a good job. ladies and gentlemen, fellow members of parliament, allow me to sum up my remarks in three points. first of all, in today's world of mass media and the internet, in this world of expert analysis, gambling, and especially online gambling, cannot be talked about without its social, cultural and mental health effects. it is also clear from the parliament's decision adopted a year ago that online gambling has clear harmful social consequences. it is enough to talk about the effects of addiction, of organized crime, of money laundering, and not to forget the poisoning effect of sports betting, and through sports, because we are still living in a terrible european football scandal, which unfortunately is related to this issue. secondly, i think we're on the wrong side of the horse when we think of the regulation of online gambling as a free-market issue. this is primarily a consumer protection issue. in my view, the regulation should focus on consumer protection issues. and last but not least, let me make two suggestions. common regulation at european level is needed, one that starts from the point of view of consumer protection and puts prevention at its core: preventing the development of addictive diseases, preventing the link between online gambling and organised crime and also preventing the 'fair play' scandals. last but not least, there is a need for the european union to initiate a cross-border, cross-sector regulation, because the issue of online gambling is a global issue, so i think we need to address that as well.
the rapporteur. - i just want to say a few words. on the one hand, to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their help in these very difficult negotiations, the help of the committee and, very importantly, the help of the spanish presidency. the stalled negotiations were brought forward by the spanish presidency at the beginning of the year. the essence of the compromise is that the council accepted the text of the microfinance instrument voted by parliament at first reading, which was essential because of the rapid start. the other important element of the compromise is that eur 60 million will be transferred from progress and eur 40 million from the margin, while up to a maximum of eur 20 million of funding may be returned to progress on a proposal from the commission. i would ask the council, which has made a statement to this effect, to read the text of this statement and it would be important that it be published when the text of this statement, the text of the agreement, is officially published in the official journal. we're about to get a very important crisis management tool. i would like to ask everyone to help get this information out to the member states, as many people in difficulty as possible use this tool to start a business, and i can promise on behalf of the committee and myself that i will be monitoring how the programme starts and how it works in the future. we sincerely hope that it will be successful.
my fellow members of the house of representatives! as a member of the presidency trio, as the hungarian representative, i am following with great appreciation the activities of president van rompuy, and the strong european commitment and faith with which he has taken up his new role. it is now up to us to decide how the presidency of the european council will function. i believe that europe, in its crisis, needs a strong hand and a strong direction. the credibility of the new programme is also a matter of concern, as it will not suffer the fate of its predecessor, the lisbon strategy. i say this as a representative of a former communist country. there is a natural resistance to loud, long-term plans in that part of europe - perhaps understandably. i have an institutional and a substantive comment. the institutional one: we need to decide who is the target of this strategy. if you're the leaders of the union, then what's happened so far is appropriate, and the tight schedule is good. but if we think that the target group is the citizens of the union, whom we want to win over, with whom we want to build a union that is stronger, more competitive and able to offer more to its citizens than it is today, then we must act in accordance with the treaty of lisbon and fairly involve the european parliament and, i would go further, the national parliaments. today's debate is no substitute for dealing with the subject, the rapporteur's assertion, in the usual way in the committees and in the political groups in this house. and as far as content is concerned, the main objective should be job creation. it's the only place to start any new strategy. how we do that, we don't know much about yet. we know that there are fewer priorities, identifying bottlenecks, closer economic policy coordination. that would be fine, but i want you to consider the following: number one, don't throw away what's worked so far. the eu has been made stronger by the policies it has adopted and it is contrary to the founding treaties to abandon the cohesion and agricultural policies which serve the interests of the citizens of the union. secondly, the new strategy is in the interest of all regions, not just individual companies or countries. cohesion also increases the union's competitiveness. third, we tailor the strategy to the country, and that's how we make it credible.
in writing. the european union's 2020 strategy can only succeed if the member states show sufficient commitment to its implementation. in addition to strong national commitments, the key to the success of the new strategy is the community policies and the use of the resources allocated to them for containment, rural development and agriculture, which contribute to economic growth, job creation. the emerging top-down approach, based on the prime minister's political accountability, also offers a greater guarantee of success than the lisbon strategy. the 2020 strategy also sets out the priorities for the next budgetary period, without the possibility of a detailed debate now. accordingly, the importance of the common agricultural policy and cohesion policy should be emphasised now in the seven-year budget starting in 2014. without economic, social and territorial cohesion, there is no strong, competitive european union. convergence between regions strengthens the eu's competitiveness.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen of the house. the european union is facing a major challenge in the revision of the lisbon strategy and, in this context, in the fight against poverty and exclusion and the strengthening of social cohesion. the eu 2020 initiative, which is one of the key pillars of the spanish-belgian-hungarian presidency trio's programme, must respond to the continent's long-term demographic and social challenges, which can mean nothing less than a rethinking of the european labour market and education system. in the face of the failure of the european employment strategy so far, the eu 2020 programme should indeed create more and better jobs, with the priority objective of increasing the participation of women and vulnerable groups in the labour market. it is encouraging that both the european commission's working document and the programme of the successive presidencies focus on factors that are essential to the success of the programme, such as tackling undeclared work, the black economy and early school leaving, and improving self-employment conditions. as socioeconomic exclusion is the result of the interaction of many factors, the only solution is to create a comprehensive action plan that addresses all areas together, rather than the project-based approaches that have been used so far. instead of isolated initiatives, these measures need to be combined to succeed in a balanced policy package that focuses on early intervention and can deliver substantial improvements in each of the local indicators reflecting the real extent of social exclusion.
in writing. the eu 2020 strategy should be based on two pillars. on the one hand, solidarity between member states, which guarantees that no member state is left behind in the crisis. on the other hand, individual member states must also show solidarity with the community by implementing the obligations defined jointly. in the debate on the future of the european union, we must always keep in mind the community policies that are already in place. the common agricultural policy and the cohesion policy are the real fruits of european integration, symbols of solidarity between the member states and nations. as a representative of hungary and as a politician from a new member state, i consider the new priorities set out by the european commission to be important: building a knowledge-based society, promoting innovation, strengthening social inclusion, creating new jobs and taking stronger action against climate change in the context of sustainable development. however, the strengthening of cohesion in these areas must not come at the expense of the weakening of previous community policies. food and food security guaranteed by the cap will become increasingly important in the 21st century, when food and freshwater have become as strategic as oil in the 20th century. if we really want to strengthen the eu's global competitiveness, we cannot allow some regions to fall apart because of their lagging infrastructure, poor education, social and health services. a strong cohesion policy based on solidarity is therefore still needed.
i'll close this discussion. written declarations (rule 149)
mr president, as the co-chair of the intergroup for traditional minorities, national communities and languages, i strongly condemn the actions taken by the belarusian authorities against the largest polish minority organisation and the members of the minority community. as we hear today, these were mostly elderly people. the facts show clear violation of not only minority but also basic human rights. these actions prove the undemocratic nature of the political system and we, those meps who have witnessed the communist regimes, clearly recognise the methods. since its establishment, the intergroup consistently has stood up for the rights of national minorities and holds any violation of minority rights to be unacceptable. we ask the commission, the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, to take concrete steps in order to send a clear message to the belarusian government that, without engagement in respecting human rights, including minority rights, sanctioning of the relations between the eu and belarus is not foreseeable. minority rights as part of human rights cannot be considered an internal matter. this issue cannot be considered a polish-belarusian internal affair. it is an eu matter because, as has been already said, this is about our neighbourhood policy, about our eastern partnership. so we ask the commission to send a clear message and take clear steps.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, in 2010 we mark the 15th anniversary of the launch of the beijing platform for action. this is a moment of reflection where we need not only to evaluate what we have achieved so far but also to think about new ways of attaining the goals set out in 1995. the beginning was reassuring: in 1995 a global consensus was reached according to which women and men were equal from all points of view, including political, economic, legal and social. however, despite this consensus, the sequel is less stirring. many of the goals of the beijing platform for action are still far from being reached. in many countries women are still not sufficiently empowered and poverty has a feminine face. moreover, even in the 21st century, even in developed countries, we notice again debate on some basic issues, questioning already-established rights such as sexual and reproductive health rights. i am very happy that the european parliament is not following such trends but, on the contrary, committing itself to these basic rights. nevertheless, the political debates, the conservative attacks on human rights are alarming and they clearly underline the fact that the fight for women’s rights is far from over. i do not think that human rights can be subject to compromise. we must not put up with the lowest common denominator. therefore, when we go to new york in a few days’ time, we have to make efforts so that all women have the same rights and that these rights are protected. i will personally do this under the motto ‘my body, my right’, which we have to convey to all the women of the world.
in writing. every day, a member state or a large company announces major investment plans in the energy sector. there are dozens of different gas pipelines, offshore wind farms and power plants on the drawing board. however, coordination between future investments leaves much to be desired. this is the only reason why the regulation under discussion should be supported, which would provide a uniform structure for the reporting obligations of the member states in relation to energy investments. the legislation to be adopted will allow for the coordination of regional investments and facilitate joint planning. it can thus strengthen the eu's single energy market and security of supply. i consider it important that the reporting obligations in the present proposal do not impose an excessive administrative burden on the authorities of the member states. it should be ensured that the method of reporting complies with previously adopted standards. in this respect, it is worth recalling that the eu directives on the internal market for electricity and natural gas already require the preparation of 10-year investment plans. the original proposal of the european commission did not address district heating investments. the amendment proposed by parliament's committee on industry to include this as one of the areas subject to reporting obligations should therefore be supported. we must not forget that district heating plays a particularly important role in the provision of health care in the new member states. in hungary, for example, it provides food for some two million people. investments in district heating cannot therefore be disregarded when coordinating energy policy investments.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, although the implementation of investment projects in energy infrastructure is already subject to serious uncertainties and the current economic and credit crisis is creating serious difficulties for investment projects in the energy sector, it should be clear that major investments in energy infrastructure in the european union in the coming years are crucial for the new european energy policy aimed at securing energy supply, mitigating the effects of climate change and maintaining competitiveness. it is an important tool for the development of the common energy policy. we cannot effectively support european energy policy at eu level without having sufficient information about our energy infrastructure. i therefore see it as our common objective to ensure that the community is accurately and regularly informed about investment projects in the eu's energy infrastructure; to alleviate the burden of notification; to increase the usefulness of the analysis carried out on the basis of the information received by the commission; and to alleviate the burden on private sector economic operators, who are playing an increasingly important role in infrastructure development investments.
mr president, can i ask you for a two-minute break while people are leaving the chamber? or a one-minute break?
the regulation aims to collect positive energy infrastructure data from the member states, systematize it and make it available to economic operators at community level, thus intervening very correctly in the functioning of the market. however, parliament adopted a completely opposite proposal, which it regards as the political objective of the regulation. quote: at the eu level, all measures must be neutral and not interfere with the functioning of the market. this parliament, the majority of it, has learned nothing from the financial, economic world crisis. it is a consistent supporter of neoliberal dogma and believes in market self-regulation in such a strategic area. that's unacceptable, which is why i voted no.
in writing. − the objectives of the beijing platform for action adopted 15 years ago have not yet been met and little progress has been made in most areas of gender equality. it is regrettable that there is little emphasis on combating the misery and multiple discrimination faced by women, both at member state and eu level. there is a need for much better coordination in the implementation of the beijing targets agreed at the un and the new eu roadmap for equality between men and women. in the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion, it is particularly important to ensure that women living just above the poverty line are adequately protected, as they are at increased risk of becoming impoverished as a result of changes in their employment or family status, such as dismissal, divorce, widowhood or even childbirth. it is gratifying to note that the programme of the next spanish-belgian-hungarian presidency trio places great emphasis on monitoring the implementation of the beijing goals and on a comprehensive approach to preventing and combating poverty among women and children. these aspects will hopefully be given due weight at the un meeting in early march. at the same time, gender-disaggregated and reliable data are needed to evaluate and review policies to achieve equality of opportunity between men and women, and the introduction of standardised common indicators to measure gender inequality should be considered.
i would like to draw the attention of my fellow members to the fact that it is a huge mistake to speak in general terms about european women and the rights of women in the european union and not to notice the second-class status of women in the post-communist countries of central and eastern europe, which are newly joining the union. it is time for the european union to carry out fact-finding research into their special deprivation of rights and to use this research to remedy the serious discrimination between women and women in europe. let me mention just two areas. both of these areas are linked to globalization, neoliberal economics, liberalized free trade and its consequences. first, multinational companies and large european companies registered in the european union apply very different standards of labour law and health and safety at work in their companies. i'm thinking of companies like big retailers, hypermarkets, even on both sides of the austro-hungarian border. the same company has very different standards for rest periods, lunch periods, termination. he practically enslaves his female workers from eastern europe, some of them hungarian. the other area that is completely unexplored is the migration of women within the european union. second-class central and eastern european women - such as hungarian women - live in the ranks of domestic workers, as economic refugees in western european households, where they are often forced to go as domestic workers, leaving their children behind. their situation, in terms of their rights, in terms of their dignity, is much more similar to the situation of women in developing countries in the third world than to the situation of their sisters in western europe who are citizens of a member state of the european union. this needs urgent attention.
mr. president, i have to go. i have the same complaint. i haven't heard from him in six months. i don't know the rules. we always sit here for the trial and do nothing. for half a year i have not had the floor. i do not know of any regulations so i sit here in vain.
i would like to draw the attention of the honourable members to the excellent efforts we heard about at the hearing of siim kallas, the new commissioner for transport. for me, it was a great principle that i heard, that the free movement of persons is one of the most important freedoms. to this end, it is necessary to harmonise the rights of the different transport modes and to place them in a single charter. we need transparent systems. i would like to point out that this is one of the priorities of the spanish presidency. why is that so important? because the 20-year-old directive does not take into account the rights of disabled people when they travel in any area. nor is it for group travel. there are no opportunities for the disabled. so i'm going back to my original comment. the provision of a single passenger charter would enable everyone, including disabled persons, to enjoy travel services, including group travel services. if this is achieved, then we can truly say that everyone is free to move around within the european union.
i'll close this discussion.
the following item is the debate on the question for an oral answer on financial transaction taxes (o-0025/2010 - b7-0019/2010) by mrs sharon bowles, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, to the commission:
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commissioner is here. i welcome the fact that we are taking a position in this parliament on a matter which could facilitate the travel of legally resident third-country nationals within the union, and i congratulate my colleague mr coelho on the excellent work he has done here in parliament on this matter. this proposal aims to facilitate and make tangible the travel within the union of third-country nationals holding a so-called d visa, which entitles them to stay for a long period in one of the member states. this will provide a solution to situations where, for various reasons, some member states are unable or unwilling to issue residence permits in good time to third-country nationals residing on their territory. so they are not using the schengen framework properly. and i'm glad we can move forward on this issue. our aim is to ensure that third-country nationals who enter the european union do not experience the fortress of impenetrability. integrated border management and visa policy should serve these objectives. as the hungarian representative, i urge that the external borders of the union be open to travellers of good faith. do not restrict the communication between people on both sides of the border. it is in the fundamental interest of third-country nationals living in the neighbourhood of the union, including members of the hungarian minority, to be able to reside legally in the territory of the member states of the union without any bureaucratic or administrative burden. however, this requires appropriate legislation at both community and member state level, but one that does not limit the scope of the other but reinforces the objectives of the other. i hope that the new community legislation will not only be clear in principle but will also make it easier in practice, particularly for young people, university students, who wish to study in the member states. they should be the primary beneficiaries of the regulation. and in this context, i can only agree that the commission should report on the implementation of the regulation by april 2012 at the latest and, if necessary, propose amendments to the regulation in order to meet the objectives set.
mr. president, i have to go. i would like to say that i agree with and support the rapporteur and mrs malmström in finding a solution to this issue that respects the rule of law, respect for human rights, data protection and, of course, security. so much has been said. i'd like to emphasize a few things. for this regulation to work, we first need to study and know more about the practice in each member state. we know that some member states can issue residence permits for a limited period. these good practices can mean a lot to us. we need to coordinate the practices of the member states, which obviously has a confidence-building effect. it is absolutely essential that all countries use the sis system we know that not all countries use it today and above all it is urgent that we can introduce sis ii as soon as possible and that the vis system works, because this will be the guarantee in the long run. it is in the european interest that students, businessmen and researchers from third countries who are here can move freely.
we hungarian mps are in a special position when we have to decide with our votes whether to allow citizens of countries outside the european union to move more freely within the eu or, on the contrary, try to prevent this. hungary lost a large part of its territory as a result of the tragedy in trianon, and a very large number of our hungarian brothers live beyond the current borders of hungary and thus beyond the current borders of the european union, in the south, and in transcarpathia. these brothers and sisters are in extremely humiliating situations when they study in the territory of present-day hungary, when they live in their own country as researchers or other workers, and when they cannot leave the territory of hungary. this is an extremely bad and intolerable situation that we must act against, so we, hungarian emotional, hungarian representatives will vote yes to help eliminate this impossible situation.
the proposal, as was stated in the debate, would facilitate travel within the union for third-country nationals who hold a so-called d visa, which allows them to stay in a member state for a long period. this was necessary because some member states were not able to issue residence permits in time for various reasons or did not make proper use of the framework provided by the schengen rules. the hungarian fidesz delegation abstained from the final vote on this legislation because hungary has transposed the legislation correctly so far, this has not caused a problem and we could ensure this more effectively by making proper use of the opportunities offered by schengen. at the same time, we would like to emphasise that it is in the fundamental interest of third-country nationals living in the neighbourhood of the union, members of the hungarian minority, to have the opportunity to reside legally in the territory of the member states of the union without bureaucratic burdens, but this requires that we have legislation at both the member state and community level that does not limit the scope of each other but reinforces our objectives.
on behalf of the ppe group. as well as more effective application of international and national anti-discrimination legislation, as the commissioner has said, the economic aspects of roma social inclusion will have to be given a strong focus in cordoba, as roma integration into the labour market and education is also a primary economic interest of the member states. in recent years, several international organisations have developed forward-looking plans, but these have not been implemented in the member states due to the lack of adequate binding force, the prospect of possible sanctions and the lack of appropriate budget allocation. the european union is able to ensure that a community strategy beyond the so-called soft low instruments is developed and properly implemented and evaluated on the basis of clear indicators. as rapporteur for the european roma strategy in the european parliament, i consider it extremely important that the strategy identifies crisis areas in the member states where immediate action is needed. social disadvantages are unevenly distributed across geographical areas and micro-regions with a high density of roma and non-roma people are concentrated in poverty and social exclusion, which is a serious obstacle to social development in europe. such areas should be lifted out of the competitive fray and developed through intensive programmes tailored to their specific needs. in line with the principle of subsidiarity, the monitoring and control of the strategy should be carried out by local organisations and i would suggest that extensive surveys of the needs of local target groups should be carried out, similar to the irish agricultural tenders. the collection of ethnically disaggregated and independently evaluated statistical data is also essential for evaluating the outcome of the programme. the european people's party believes that these are the key points towards which we feel the cordoba high-level meeting should point.
because i speak in my native language, i use the word "gypsy" instead of "roma", which is not a pejorative term, and is also written in our constitution. the subject of the agenda is the exclusion and discrimination of the roma. the social integration of the roma is a fundamental condition for the solution. school is an important means of doing so. in many cases, separate employment is justified, if you like positive discrimination, to overcome disadvantages. minority rights advocates are quick to call for segregation, when the goal is to integrate as quickly as possible. in some regions of hungary, generations of roma are growing up with families who live on welfare rather than on work. there is no way out without creating jobs, so we must break with neoliberal economic policies. nor can a difficult social situation justify breaking the law. in hungary, the proportion of roma in crime is high. this calls for a strong response, not only from the majority of society, but also from the decent majority of the roma. as occam, we have never identified a bloodline, a genetic cause. we're not talking about racism, we're just talking about specific socio-cultural circumstances, like background. so if we reflexively label those who say that as racist, we're just sweeping the problem under the rug. we have to find a way out together. to do this, the roma need leaders - because they can't do without them - who are credible in their own circles and in the eyes of society as a whole. we do need a common european strategy, but one that faces all aspects of this issue and is sincere about its solution.
i think the second summit in cordoba is a really good opportunity to take account of what has happened in recent years in terms of the inclusion of europe's largest and most vulnerable community, the roma community. first of all, i would like to stress that we have taken very important steps towards making this a truly european issue. it is not a central-eastern european issue, but a pan-european one. to find solutions, we have to treat it this way. the adoption by the european parliament of a resolution on the need for a roma strategy was an important step in this direction. it is regrettable that this has not yet happened, and we sincerely hope that serious progress will be made in this area during the presidency of the trio and during the term of this commission. the 2009 european parliament report on the social and labour market situation of roma was also important, as was the programme for the roma decade, which we are now about halfway through. for the strategy to be successful, it is necessary to see how the structural and cohesion funds have been used, whether they have really contributed and under what conditions to the social inclusion of the roma community. we need data, but we know that ethnicity data is always sensitive data, and we have to be careful when we ask for it and how we handle it. while there are many positive steps, we see that there are many problems with the implementation of readmission agreements. we've already had kosovo. i sincerely hope that the summit will help to resolve these issues.
as the drafter of europe's first roma medium-term government programme and rapporteur for the 2002 council of europe roma report, i agree that this is one of the most complex issues in europe today. i do not envy the commissioner, because there is no more complex, more complicated issue in europe today. there is evidence that the roma are not simply an ethnic and national minority, but a socially disadvantaged minority in many ways. however, it is not clear what the distribution of responsibility is between the majority and the minority. responsibility is asymmetric between the majority and the minority, because the majority has a much greater responsibility, but the minority has a responsibility, the roma have a responsibility. fourth, very important, we need integration without assimilation. and finally, it is not a question of budget, it is not a question of resources, but it is a question of whether there are people, mechanisms, both from the point of view of the majority and the roma society. as a former secretary of state, i have to say, the minority issue worked where there was a committed local majority figure, a credible local minority leader who could mobilize the minority, and the ngos helped. it's not about the money. we need the eu level, but things are being done at the national and local levels, and that is why i support the eu strategy.
for roma children, the only way to rise is to go to school. it is very unfortunate that as a form of political correctness, we regularly hear excuses from parents, under various titles, who do not promote or even hinder their children's attendance at school. in this respect, girls, gypsy girls, are particularly discriminated against, as they are often burdened by irresponsible parents with the care of many children and household chores instead of going to school. international human rights standards are only met if the state undertakes to act in such cases in the child's defence and to compel the parent, by means of fines, penalties if necessary, or withdrawal of family allowances or other benefits, to ensure the child's rights in the best interests of the child.
mr. president, i have to go. there's a technical problem. i just realized that the computer had cloned me because my colleagues who had the card inserted had my name, the name tabajdi, inserted everywhere. i noticed that in mrs. gomez's place, but i noticed it elsewhere. so there's some kind of computer problem. my colleague gönz kinga also has the name tabajdi on his card. i ask you to check because i don't want to be cloned to this extent in the european parliament. please call the technical service. thank you... you got zoli?
the following point on the question for an oral answer by brian simpson, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, to the commission on the implementation of the first railway package (directives 2001/12/ec, 2001/13/ec and 2001/14/ec) (o-0030/2010 - b7-0204/2010)
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. i welcome the fact that the european commission has launched a process with the announcement of the first railway package, which can be seen as a first step towards the standardisation of the railway service at european level. however, there is concern that the transposition of the three directives that make up this package by the member states has caused serious difficulties for 21 countries, which may hinder the proper transposition of the subsequent packages. i would like to draw the european commission's attention to a contradiction between the high european-level economic and efficiency requirements for rail networks and the positive impact of rail on regional development, the mobility of rural residents and people with disabilities and the environment. i suggest that the commission should find a balance and compromise between these two contradictions, bearing in mind the need to clarify the principle of cost sharing between the member states and the european union and the importance of creating a single transport system in the community. it is necessary to establish a healthy competition involving all the players in the sector, where the real competition is not between individual transport sectors but between individual and collective transport.
the debate on the following point on the oral question to the commission by mr carl schlyter, on behalf of the verts/ale group, mr daniel caspary, on behalf of the ppe group, mr kader arif, on behalf of the s&d group, mr niccolò rinaldi, on behalf of the alde group, mr helmut scholz, on behalf of the gue/ngl group and mr syed kamall, on behalf of the ecr group, on the transparency and the current state of play of the negotiations on acta (anti-counterfeiting trade agreement) (o-0026/2010 - b7-0020/2010)
i have received five motions for resolutions11 see minutes, tabled in accordance with rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on wednesday 10 march 2010. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following debate was held on the question for an oral answer to the commission by mr daniel caspary, on behalf of the ppe group, mr kader arif, on behalf of the s&d group, mr niccolò rinaldi, on behalf of the alde group, mr yannick jadot, on behalf of the verts/ale group, mr joe higgins, on behalf of the gue/ngl group and mr robert sturdy, on behalf of the ecr group, on the regulation on the application of the generalised system of preferences (o-0022/2010 - b7-0018/2010)
i have received two motions for resolutions111 see minutes, tabled in accordance with rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on wednesday 10 march 2010.
my fellow officers! first of all, i would like to congratulate mr arnaud danjean on this comprehensive report, which is very thoughtful in all its aspects. among the member states of the union, there are many countries, including my country, hungary, which would like to participate actively in european security and defence cooperation as full and equal members, but for known geographical and historical reasons, they are not on a par with the largest member states in terms of either material resources, capacity or even knowledge base. i myself have therefore voted in favour of amendments which would facilitate this kind of accession, this kind of catch-up. on the one hand, this concerns continuous structured cooperation, which could perhaps be formulated and could be formulated in such a way that it does not function as an elite club of the strongest and largest member countries, that is, does not apply uniform and identical requirements to all participants, because in this case certain countries are left behind, but allows the participation of the smaller ones due to their special abilities. the other is the design of training networks of this kind. i thank the president for including these aspects in the report.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the review conference of the npt will be held in april/may 2010. it is important that the member states of the european union take a united position and strengthen all three pillars of the treaty: non-proliferation, disarmament and cooperation in the civilian use of nuclear energy. member states should express their commitment to curbing the trade in nuclear weapons, to the gradual reduction of existing nuclear arsenals and to strict controls on the production of materials and possession of products necessary for the production of nuclear weapons. member states should take the lead in implementing unsc resolution 1887 of 24 september 2009: this resolution calls on member states to place a high priority on the establishment of a comprehensive international treaty to provide for the disarmament of nuclear weapons under strict international supervision. in addition, they should seek to introduce concrete measures in the above-mentioned areas in order to set an example for the world. the member states of the union should facilitate the ratification of the comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty and the renewal of the start treaty between the united states of america and russia. the european union should make it a priority to harmonise, make transparent and strengthen the rules on the storage, transport and trade of nuclear fuels.
i voted against the european union 2020 strategy. i voted no because it seems to have faith in neoliberal economic policies. it is clear that it condemns protectionist economic policies, i.e. the involvement of the state. and the lesson of the global financial and economic crisis is that you can't leave everything to the markets. on the other hand, the concept of empire is clear. it provides that the rules will enter into force automatically if they are not transposed by the member states in time. it wants to create a european supervisory authority and it is clear elsewhere that it wants to achieve results through binding acts rather than leaving autonomous decisions. that's why we voted no.
in december 2008, israel launched a brutal attack on the gaza strip, killing more than 1,400 people - mostly civilians, including 450 children. the so-called goldstone report, using objective methods and extensive evidence, exposed these horrors and said which specific rules of international law israel had violated with this brutal act. it is natural that the european parliamentary delegation of the jobbik movement for hungary voted in favour of the decision of the european parliament, by which we propose the implementation of the recommendations of this goldstone report, and at the same time we follow the palestinian victims because, to the shame of the hungarian government, in sharp contrast to the opinion of the hungarians, it constantly takes a stand against the goldstone report in international forums.
next item declaration by the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy/vice-president of the commission on the union's policy towards the arctic
i have one question. poverty affects two social groups most: the low-educated social group and the social group of the disabled. the question states that two financial funds were not sufficient to deal effectively with the problems of these two groups. my question is whether the european council intends to consider how they can help these two social groups more effectively and what is the situation of this group?
madam president, and mr. potocnik, please. the new member states will find it particularly difficult to finance the transition to low-emission green technologies. one possible, very important source would be the use of emissions credits accumulated in the kyoto emissions trading system to sell climate assets in central europe and the baltic states. this is of course conditional on the post-kyoto system and the support of the european council and the commission in our efforts to market our remaining climate assets in a proper way. as a biogas reporter, i'm aware of the cost of new technologies, so it would be very important to develop the technology. it would be very important to take this aspect into account in the context of the common agricultural policy, for example by changing the composition of animal feed, by replacing deep tillage with other tillage methods and by introducing new innovative technologies.
the representative of the council and the commission has spoken very nicely about low-carbon technologies, but has not spoken about the essence: where will the funding come from? the group of member states has an obvious source. the former socialist countries have far exceeded their kyoto commitments, which is why the european union was so proud to go to copenhagen. these countries have the right to sell carbon dioxide allowances. yet the commission and the 15 original member states want to deny these countries that. in the case of hungary, this amounts to several hundred billion forints. in copenhagen, hungary, poland committed to use these funds for green investment. so here's the source. so far, this argument has fallen on deaf ears. this indicates that it is true that the new member states are secondary to the european union.
in writing. i find it important that the european commission has taken into account, in a strategic energy technology plan, the level of r & d support needed to develop green technologies. and it's even more so because solar, bioenergy and hydrogen technology are not commercially viable in most cases today. as steven chu, the u.s. secretary of energy, rightly pointed out, we need nobel prize-level research successes to compete with conventional fossil-fueled technologies in green development. however, the major beauty of the green technology plan is that we have no idea what eu funds will be used to implement it. this cannot be a secondary consideration in view of the estimated costs of eur 16 billion for solar energy research or eur 5 billion for hydrogen technology. there is no indication at this stage that more resources will be available for green technology research in the next seven-year financial framework. we know that public subsidies cannot replace the efforts of private investors. the european union and the member states should nevertheless increase the budgetary resources for green technology research. the future revenues of the emissions trading system can provide a good basis for this. the stakes are high. we cannot afford to let energy policy and climate action suffer the fate of the lisbon strategy, which has produced contradictory results.
mr president, we have asked for the postponement of the vote on this motion, in the interests of the house. we had originally agreed to put it on the agenda on the assumption that everything was in order; however, it was a quick procedure, and we have learned in the mean time that not all of the committees had been properly consulted on this issue. it is a motion by the ppe group, but some of the committees want more time on this very important and complicated matter, however urgent it may be. we therefore ask for the vote on this issue to be postponed.
the speakers before me are all talking about a solution to the greek crisis. however, mr barroso, this was not on the agenda of the summit. do you not find this a contradiction, a hypocrisy? because it's not officially on the agenda. of course, greece was not the only country in difficulty in 2008-2009. hungary was the one that was brought to the brink of bankruptcy in part because of the government's serious failures. there, they accepted an imf loan, which has very serious consequences for society. we have to face the lesson of the financial crisis. that everything is connected? no, i'm not going. the real lesson was articulated by prime minister papandreou, who said that in the last 20 years, the berlin wall had come down, and wall street had come down. the wall street crash. yes, this global financial system, which is disconnected from the economy, is the basis for how countries get into this situation.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to draw the attention of the commission and the council to the fact that, when defining the new objectives of the eu 2020 strategy, they should not forget the commission's policies that are already working well, such as cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy. these are well-established instruments which, although in need of reform, can make a significant contribution to the new eu 2020 objectives. it is regrettable that these two very important community policies have been omitted from the commission's previous material. hungary and the new member states therefore attach particular importance to the formulation of these, the legal harmonisation of the internal market and the elimination of infrastructure and energy security bottlenecks. finally, this eu strategy cannot replace a proper debate on the budgetary directive, and we believe it is very important that the regional dimension of cohesion policy is given a chance. thank you for your attention.
mr president, the european citizens’ initiative is one of the major innovations of the lisbon treaty, aimed at increasing direct democracy in the european union. this new tool should be correctly used by being fully exploited. furthermore, its credibility must be assured. in this respect, serious requirements need to be addressed. let me briefly mention only two, knowing that there are several others. the collected signatures must be verified appropriately. this is a crucial question that can cause serious problems, as the relevant legislation is very different in our member states. we must find the optimal solution – the appropriate balance between different rules and common requirements. the second topic is the admissibility of the initiative. again, every aspect must be examined carefully in order to find the best way to go. should the topic of the public discussion be limited in the defence of the values of the union, or should freedom of expression prevail? are they mutually inclusive principles? i welcome and am grateful for the progressive work of vice-president šefčovič and the spanish presidency. i am glad that the stakeholders had the opportunity in february to discuss the majority of the questions that need to be solved so that the citizens’ initiative is operational. i would really like to know the outcome of the meeting. how is the commission going to handle the issue of verification and admissibility of an initiative, and at what stage? of course, when we prepare a report here in the european parliament, we really have to be clear what approach we are going to deal with. i strongly believe that we are here to represent the european citizens and we have to be clear that we are capable of sending a very strong message for all of us. i strongly believe that the spanish presidency is doing an excellent job as a member of the trio together with belgium and hungary, my good comrades. so, thank you very much again, vice-president. you did an excellent job. let us continue.
that concludes the agenda item. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the statement by the commission on the situation in tibet.
i have been informed that the spanish presidency announced earlier, a month ago, that it could not stay longer than that, to its great regret.
madam president, please. i believe we have a simplified picture of the tibetan process. there is a modernization going on there, and at the same time the criticisms are justified. it is clear that the only lasting solution would be autonomy, and that would be genuine and extended autonomy. as i explained in beijing, when we visited, when the european parliament delegation was there, that this autonomy could be modelled on the analogy of one country, two social systems, two religious systems, one country. it's not enough to formulate criticism. china would be open to dialogue, open to having a european union figure, whether romano prodi, ferrero-waldner or margot wallström, mediate between the dalai lama and the beijing leadership. it would be good for the commission, mrs catherine ashton and the council to think this through. at the same time, we are talking about china relations, but do you know that the european council has never in its history put relations between the union and the people's republic of china on the agenda? we never discussed this at any foreign ministers' meeting. so for us to be effective, the issue of tibet is not just about criticism, it's about conception and mediation.
madam president, on 10 march we celebrated the 51st anniversary of the popular uprising in tibet. since then, through his consistent and persistent commitment to represent genuine autonomy for his people, the dalai lama has offered the world a model on how to pursue democracy through non-violent means. we europeans keep learning from his holiness, the dalai lama. recently, he voiced his solidarity with the ethnic uighur minority and he took the side of aung san suu kyi and other democratic dissidents. here in the european parliament we are committed to ensuring the protection of human and minority rights around the world. (the president cut off the speaker.)
the 2007 eu wine market regime is now being implemented by the new member states. in doing so, the european commission acted unlawfully - unfortunately, there is no one here - when it illegally registered the name tokaj, at the request of slovakia, as both a protected designation of origin and a protected geographical indication. this is contrary to eu rules, because this wine can be classified in one category or the other. the slovak application is no longer included in the community bacchus database as a protected geographical indication. the commission has thus put an end to the illegal situation, for which i thank you. but there is another illegal situation, because the slovak national law on which the registration is based does not exist, because it has already been repealed by slovakia. i therefore ask the commission to remedy this unlawful situation.
madam president, please. in the country of milošević, the hungarian battles continue in the serbian vojvodina. the perpetrators are either acquitted or not charged. in the vichy region decades ago, about 400,000 hungarians lived and made up a third of the population. forced migration and massive resettlement have since reduced their numbers to 290,000 and their share to 13%. the method of mass beating of minorities was used by the notorious serbian secret service, udba, especially against albanians. this spontaneous tradition continues in the present with the hungarians. madam president, i have to ask you to leave. the european parliament should take decisive action to stop anti-hungarian terrorism in the south. the eu should make serbia's accession to the eu conditional on the achievement of justice for the tens of thousands of victims of the post-war mass killings and the cessation of the anti-hungarian violence that continues to this day.
my fellow citizens! we all know that the budget of the european union needs major reforms. but we also know that within the limits of an annual budget, these reforms cannot be avoided. what's our problem? the real problem is that this is a very inflexible budget. we don't respond well to daily challenges, but even yearly challenges are hard to deal with. and of course, there's not much room to move, there's not much choice. the rapporteur has made a balanced proposal. he considered the realities and formulated good goals. i hope that parliament will follow and support the text and the proposal before us. it is particularly good to turn to the young, otherwise they will turn away from us and from the european idea. i would like to talk a little more about cohesion policy. this cohesion policy is not charity. true, there are huge gaps between the developed and the underdeveloped regions. we want to eliminate this difference, or at least reduce it. but when we lift up a region, we lift up the competitiveness of europe as a whole, and we become stronger and better in the global competition. assuming, of course, that the member states take advantage of the opportunities, the money will not stay in and, moreover, the money spent will have a result. otherwise, there's no more waste. it's a bigger waste than two headquarters to run programs that don't produce the results they need. i hope there's a breakthrough here. the budget committee is very interested in getting our money's worth. thank you for your kind attention.
in writing. – first of all, i wish to recall that, although the eu was able to react collectively to the financial and economic crisis by adopting a european economic recovery plan, the overall economic situation in the eu is still not satisfactory. it is inevitable that the following priorities for the budget guidelines 2011 have to be taken into account: the implementation of fp7, which will have reached its maturity in 2011, should be closely monitored; the development of the newly established european space policy and the promotion of scientific and technological advance, supporting innovative technologies and sustainable development; the challenges relating to sustainable energy and the fight against climate change must be reflected in the eu budget priorities; these priorities will require additional budgetary resources, particularly for funding the iter and the european strategic energy technology plan and promoting energy efficiency; the importance of the galileo project, of the gmes programme and of the european institute of innovation and technology; the proper implementation and evaluation of ongoing pilot projects and preparatory actions should be the priority. i trust that these key issues will be taken into account in an appropriate way during the forthcoming 2011 budget procedure.
on behalf of the s&d group. dear officer cioloş! my fellow citizens! on behalf of the socialist and democratic group, we attach great importance to the report drawn up by mr scotta and we agree with it in principle. this report had four or five points of dispute. firstly, the common eu logo. many people fail to understand that the common eu logo is not a step towards federalism, but a proof to the consumer that the product meets the specific food safety requirements of the union and at the same time sets it apart from the world outside the union. i therefore ask that we support the separate eu logo. the second thing is the question of place of origin. it is very good that the union now has an agricultural commissioner in the person of mr dacian cioloş, who understands and supports the importance of local markets, because this is the only way to preserve local flavours, regional flavours, the diversity of food in europe, and it is also clear that quality policy, the indication of the place of origin, are key in this matter. there has been a debate with the commission and i very much hope that the new commissioner will no longer support the previous position of merging a protected designation of origin with a protected geographical indication. this is a problem sometimes, most recently with tokaji wine. thank you, officer, some of the problems have been remedied, others are still waiting to be remedied. the fourth element is the biologist. there is complete agreement on this, and finally, fifthly, that some in the committee on agriculture have taken the initiative of restoring the same strict standards for fruit and vegetables as before. i would like to go back to the original version of mr. scotta's report. let's not go back to the days when we over-regulated what a cucumber's curve should look like.
i think it's a very welcome fact for all of us that in the g20 circle, the ministers of labour and social affairs are meeting now and in this way they are becoming equal partners with the finance ministers, which is unprecedented. it seems that an economic crisis was needed to talk about the economic and financial aspects of the global economic move, but also the social and employment aspects. this is especially important now, when the economic pressure of the crisis seems to be easing, while unemployment is still rising and poverty is still rising, and we know that this has social consequences, and even political consequences, in the longer term. it's accompanied by a rise in extremism around the world, which is a longer-term threat. it is important that the ministers of labour and social affairs develop policies, policies that can improve the employment situation, that can reduce poverty. let me give you a specific example that was discussed at the g20, the microfinance tool, which not only increases social cohesion, but also increases self-sufficiency, and it can be important in that respect as well. it is unfortunate that parliament cannot deliver a resolution to the g20 meeting, but we can only send our messages verbally, but i think that is more than has happened so far.
in writing. i think it's fundamental to recognize that as the world, the economy and technology evolve, today's decision-makers are not keeping up: an energy company is slowly being able to plan ahead of international politics. unfortunately, the eu2020 strategy is still lacking in this recognition. the european union must look beyond its own borders and make sacrifices to achieve a more sustainable society. there should be an increasing focus on investment and job creation rather than on increasing import-dependent consumption. unconditional free trade unfairly takes jobs, destroys the environment, endangers the health of consumers, and increases barriers to access - simply to secure the price of a product or service. we can't go back to the days of savage capitalism, the world of the twist olivers. otherwise, the eu2020 strategy will also end up as a lisbon failure...
thank you, sir. your time is up. i respectfully ask you to respect your speaking time.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. my fellow members of parliament! a serious flaw in the report is that it does not name those responsible. and in europe, we will not be able to eradicate the economic crisis until those responsible are identified. let's say for once that the european economic crisis was not caused by people living on wages and salaries, but by those banks, those multinational companies, those insurance companies that have finally excluded european societies. at the moment in hungary, if a multinational company wants to set up shop, the way it does it is this: it gets the land free from the local government, it gets a tax break, it gets a benefit, it employs people at minimum wage, and people can't even form unions. this situation has led to a labour crisis in europe. we demand that the multinational companies, the banks, the insurance companies, participate and play a role in solving and eliminating the economic crisis.
my fellow members of parliament! the european central bank faced unprecedented challenges in its operations in 2008 when the global economic crisis hit europe in september 2008. the financial crisis turned into a real economic crisis, as the interbank money market froze due to mistrust, and financial institutions did not lend to each other or to companies. the ecb has responded to financial developments swiftly and, in my view, appropriately, but we cannot ignore an unfortunate fact in the assessment of crisis management: discrimination between non-euro area countries. i am convinced that the ecb acted contrary to the spirit of the union when, at the height of the crisis in october 2008, it did not ensure a level playing field for the use of liquidity facilities. with the swedish and danish national banks, this ecb carried out a money-exchange operation in order to provide the banking systems of the two countries with adequate euro liquidity, whereas with the hungarian and polish central banks it was only willing to carry out the same operation with the requirement of collateral. this move by the ecb has unfortunately contributed to market uncertainty and further aggravated the situation of the countries concerned. now that we're working to create a new financial system, we need to take care in advance to eliminate these inequalities. we cannot therefore make rules which affect some parts of the union more adversely than others. i would like to take this idea further when i talk about the european systemic risk board, which we are all working on creating. the ecb will play a significant role in this. the presidency of the council will also be held by the president of the ecb, and we will need to ensure that euro-zone and non-euro-zone countries, and thus the countries of central and eastern europe, will have the same quality of voting rights in the new body. i fear that if we do not speak out against the discrimination we have already experienced during the crisis, then discrimination will become a practice in the new financial supervisory institutions, which must be avoided at all costs. we must not allow the idea of reunification to suffer, and economic division to replace political division.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 25 march 2010. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. - members of the house of representatives! i would like to welcome the adoption of the motion for a resolution tabled jointly by the six largest political groups in the european parliament, which, confirming the decision taken at the beginning of the previous term in 2008, calls once again on the european commission to develop a comprehensive european roma strategy to address the social and economic exclusion of europe's roma. the proposal rightly points out that anti-discrimination measures alone are not sufficient to promote roma social integration, but that a concerted community effort based on a sound legal basis is needed to coordinate the actions of institutions and social actors and to put pressure on participants to honour their own promises. it is also of the utmost importance that the decision clearly takes a position in favour of a legislative commitment going beyond the 'soft law' instruments and ensuring a real budgetary contribution. finally, i hope that the european commission, in response to the strong call of the european parliament and with the approval of the european council, will launch as soon as possible the comprehensive development programme envisaged in the resolution, which can finally put an end to the generational re-generation of the deep poverty that afflicts the roma, which will make efforts in all related policy areas simultaneously and which will be able to intervene immediately in ghettoised areas facing serious structural disadvantages.
i have two comments. one is apparently technical, but it's more than that, the other is about the merits of the matter. i read in the summary that the employment guidelines are an integral part of the 2020 strategy which the council intends to adopt in june, although this is clearly impossible as the underlying text has not yet been received. they're promising by the end of april. parliament may deliver its opinion, even in a forced procedure, no later than september. how does this make june's pass? or another question how will parliament's position be taken into account? we are therefore ready to cooperate, we want to cooperate, but we are asked to take account of the rules that are binding on parliament. as regards the content, it is welcome that the council intends to put forward the employment and economic directives in a closer and more closely linked context, but i say that we should be able to start working with it. by the way, the ideas seem too general for now. it's nice to have a 75% employment rate, it's nice to have a triple 20 target on climate change, and it's nice to have a 10% target and a 40% target on education, but how, why, from what, and what happens to the audit, what happens to those who don't meet, and what happens to those who only meet on paper, who don't give real numbers? we have experienced this in the implementation of the lisbon strategy. finally, i am pleased that cohesion policy is finally emerging as an important area in the context of the 2020 strategy. but i would suggest that we should have quantified targets and, as has been pointed out in the fight against poverty, develop some kind of indicator to track progress or even backwardness.
in writing. i welcome the fact that the european council has reached a compromise on the european union's economic agenda for 2020 and on helping greece. the economic growth targeted is also a precondition for overcoming the labour market and social crisis. it is good to see that the european council is paying close attention to the low-skilled as well as the young and the elderly in order to increase employment. increasing employment for disadvantaged groups should be accompanied by the acquisition of skills with market value and the promotion of lifelong learning. i also agree with the hungarian government's desire to think in terms of quantified territorial cohesion rather than poverty-related objectives in the fight against poverty, since those living in poverty and especially extreme poverty live in regions within the union that are well defined on a territorial basis. this would also make it possible to coordinate the management of the complex problem of poverty and of regions lagging behind. it is also important that, when committing to the 2020 targets, policy-makers have accurate data on the social level and proportion of poverty. while the management of the economic crisis and the eu 2020 roadmap set the course to be followed, the visegrad countries understandably ask that the debate on this does not determine the long-term financial perspective after 2013. the discussion of this will require longer negotiations and it is not possible to predict the financial room for manoeuvre that the eu will have in 2012-13.
in writing. the final document of the march council meeting very rightly addresses the issue of climate change in particular. this is also welcome, because the failure of the copenhagen summit has created a very uncertain situation in climate policy. flexibility mechanisms, including in particular quota trading schemes, are likely to remain important tools for the eu's climate action efforts. however, their functioning is still controversial today. for example, last year, a large amount of tax fraud was committed in the united kingdom in connection with a quota sale. more recently, allowances sold by the hungarian government were found to have been illegally returned to the eu ets. the emission rights were intended to be used twice, in practice through offshore companies. these are just two examples of how the emissions trading system is not working smoothly. abuses particularly disadvantage those actors making real efforts to mitigate environmental damage. the legal loopholes in the quota trading system should be addressed as soon as possible, taking lessons from bad examples. the european commission must act against the use of licences without real performance, in bad faith or not according to their intended purpose. in addition, full legal coherence between international and union climate protection regulation is needed. to this end, it is also appropriate to strengthen union surveillance procedures. flexibility mechanisms are still needed for effective climate regulation. however, flexibility must not be unpredictable and must not create opportunities for abuse.
the rapporteur. - madam president, mr sefcovic, vice-president of the commission, i would like to thank you for your kind words. many speakers in parliament begin their speeches by saying that their topic is important, very important or perhaps one of the most important topics. i would like to say the same thing, but on a much more substantial basis than many people do, because the subject we are discussing, the delegation of powers by parliament, the delegation of powers by the commission, is perhaps one of the most important, but rarely mentioned, innovations of the treaty of lisbon. those who criticized the lisbon treaty spoke of a lack of democracy. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say that this amendment, which guarantees the parliament's right to delegate, is one of the most significant additions to parliament's powers. it means that the representatives directly elected by the citizens can now, through the power of parliament and the legislator, control and veto the executive decisions and decisions taken by the european commission. the fact that the treaty of lisbon, which we talk about a lot in connection with the extension of parliament's powers, has increased the number of codecision procedures considerably, the range of subjects in which parliament can take part has been extended, and the question of parliament's delegation of power has been added to, is not only a quantitative but also a qualitative extension. so from now on, as a result of a long struggle and a long struggle, which our colleagues here in the european parliament have been waging for many years, we have continued to do so, it is guaranteed that the decisions of the european commission, which are not taken in its own capacity but in the context of implementing powers, will be subject to parliamentary scrutiny. of course, many would argue that this control has existed in a formal sense. in a sense, yes, but with deadlines and in circumstances and as a result of interinstitutional cooperation under the law which did not involve real, effective control. i would also like to point out that this new possibility, namely article 290 of the treaty of lisbon, will also transform the work of parliament in the coming years. especially if we, as members of parliament, take this jurisdiction seriously and can really decide on these matters. to make the outside world and those outside the profession understand what this is all about, because it is a very complex subject in technical terms, but it is in fact a democratic institution and it is intended to eliminate the so-called european democratic deficit. it means that the parliament and the council, the two european legislatures, cannot deal with every detail on their own. parliament meets every month, and sometimes there are occasions like this, when we meet for nothing and cannot vote, but parliament still has to check the questions that are put by the council or the commission under delegated powers. from now on, you'll have the opportunity. in my report i have tried to make it clear that parliament is committed to these rights. we will not accept any additional obligations beyond those laid down in the treaty. we do not accept it because we want to exercise our rights to the full and i think that european democracy will expand as a result. this requires close cooperation with the commission and the council, but we must not forget that the legislators, and thus parliament and the council, have the power to do so. i would like to thank all my colleagues for their cooperation on this complex issue and for the fact that in the future parliament will make full use of this new licence.
the rapporteur. − i thank my colleagues for the debate, as this report was produced in very close cooperation with both committees, and i would like to highlight the environment committee, which will have many such tasks in the coming period, and with the political parties. i'll add, my fellow officers, that this is a struggle. fighting the commission, fighting the council, fighting for our rights. this report is about making clear that these are our rights and we stand by them. it is much easier to do this when i have the backing of both committees and colleagues from other parties and when i make it clear to the partner institutions that parliament is firmly behind these issues. however, in order to be able to exercise this right effectively, i take mr sefcovic's words to heart, namely that the general alignment, or general adjustment, could be accelerated in the coming months and that we could really extend these rights as far as possible. we think it's important to focus on areas where co-decision has not been possible before. another very important element that colleagues have mentioned here is the importance of access to information. this should be laid down in an interinstitutional agreement, and negotiations are under way with both the commission and the council, but we would like to know what the council is doing, what kind of consultations it is having on these matters. and as for whether there's been an expansion or a decline in rights, ladies and gentlemen, read the report, look at the legislation. i can't see how this is anything other than an extension of our rights. we have no say in what happens to the licences we've already delegated. parliament was virtually left out of the process. they were heard out of courtesy, but the deadlines were so short that parliament did not even meet during that time, and now we can veto it, we can withdraw it, we don't even have to give our reasons, so it's a clear extension of rights. we are the ones who have the right and we delegate it to the commission, and as a result i cannot interpret this as anything other than an extension of our rights. colleagues, it is now up to us to exercise these rights in the future.
in writing. – i warmly welcome the outcome of the report by mr szájer. defining the new legislative system is a difficult and complex issue. i am convinced that the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), and in particular articles 290 and 291 thereof, reinforces the democratic character of the union and rationalises its legal order. the introduction of the novel concept of legislative acts has far-reaching consequences. the report emphasizes the slight differences among the key co-legislators, the competences and the detailed agenda of how they work with each other. the real question is: in case the ec gets more legislative competences and wider legislative authorities, which means an immediate increase in community interests, what kind of control methods should be introduced on behalf of the council and the ep? the new legislative framework of the tfeu set up the tools but there has not been any practical experience of their adaptation at community level. finally, i urge the co-legislators to have an interinstitutional agreement as soon as possible between the parliament, the council and the commission on the implementation of article 290, as there is an urgent need for greater transparency.
this is a blue-chip question for the previous speaker. i'd like to ask you a question in half a minute.
the most important aspect of the le foll report is that without agriculture we would have no chance of tackling global climate change, but i am thinking in particular of the role of forests, which today are not sufficiently supported. i totally agree that agriculture needs to be greener, greener for the future. on the one hand, this is essential, on the other hand, agriculture today produces many environmental public goods - biodiversity, landscape protection, water cleanliness and so on - that are not sufficiently paid for by the market, not sufficiently paid for by the common agricultural policy, so in the common agricultural policy after 2013 we have to create a market for environmental public goods so that farmers receive those extra services, compensation for the extra services they provide.
it is very important that, according to the dorfmann report, the cap budget should continue to give priority to supporting agricultural areas with natural handicaps, without which these areas would suffer very serious ecological damage and social problems. it is a good thing that the commission and it is commendable that the commission is entrusting the member states with the task of drawing up a classification system based on the eight criteria. at the same time, i would like to point out that there are still differences between member states, there is discrimination, not only in the area of direct payments, which affects the new member states, particularly the commissioner's country, latvia, but also other new member states. in my country, the supply of water to the sand dunes is a particular problem, as the groundwater level has fallen by 4-5 metres in four decades and has become a semi-desert area, but in southern europe it is also a problem, so it is particularly important to address the issue of water management in the future of the cap.
i congratulate the rapporteur on not only the specific proposals but also on the whole philosophy. it's great because in the future, it wants to give support to those who are actively farming, who are effectively cultivating the land. i also think it would be excellent to eliminate sectoral and other distortions and inequalities in the future common agricultural policy, and here i must again underline the discrimination affecting the new member states. it is also very important that not only community legislation should be simplified, but that much depends on the implementation by the member states. let me give you a typical example: two years ago the council adopted a regulation making it compulsory to have a unique electronic identification system for sheep and goats aged less than one year old for slaughter. this has, in the case of poorer member states, where the state has not been able to support it, essentially brought the sector to the ground and put it in a hopeless situation. this shows that over-regulation, over-bureaucracy can very often cause very serious damage to the common agricultural policy, which is why mr ashworth's report is important, as is mr dorfmann's and mr le foll's.
the report by richard ashworth makes excellent proposals to simplify the cap. it is of great value that you look at the matter from the farmers' point of view. of course, it is also important to use taxpayers' money in the most orderly way possible. but it's a tool, not an end. the aim is to achieve the full range of the policy objectives. agencies often confuse these two, to the detriment of the objective. it requires a radical change of attitude. a culture of cooperation is needed between customers, farmers and officials, rather than a culture of subordination. the commission should also develop legislation to provide for an obligation to compensate and sanction the office where its failure to act harms the interests of farmers. the right of beneficiaries to seek redress before an independent tribunal should also be ensured. we don't have that option in hungary today.
in writing. although the volcanic dust cloud was fortunately not fatal as a result of the action of the aviation authorities, information and coordination were insufficient in europe. the airspace blockade has put hundreds of thousands of europeans in a difficult position, preventing them from reaching their destinations. everyone is trying to deal with the unexpected problem, but the lack of information has made it even more difficult. passengers were often not given adequate information, either by telephone or on the internet. it was also disturbing to see conflicting information from aviation authorities and airlines. there was also a lack of coordination between air and ground traffic. we have seen firsthand the importance of modernising transport links between member states and of building trans-european transport networks. i welcome the commission's decisive crisis management action. the task force should strengthen coordination between aviation and airspace control authorities and should also examine the validity of security measures introduced in the 1980s. i suggest that in a similar crisis, the european parliament should not make the already chaotic traffic more difficult by moving between brussels and strasbourg, but should instead hold its plenary session in brussels.
in writing. thousands of people are stranded in vulnerable conditions at airports due to days of restrictions and flight cancellations following the icelandic volcanic eruption. despite the significant delays (more than 2 hours for flights of less than 1500 km), the airlines did not provide any or only partial assistance and did not provide accurate information for the continuation of the journey to the destination. passengers were not provided with free telephone, fax, e-mail or internet access, or even with transfers and accommodation, to which they were entitled under the eu rules in force. passengers with disabilities, the elderly and families with young children are much more vulnerable in such an emergency situation, as they have been. this unexpected circumstance has shown that passenger rights previously respected can be annulled in a matter of minutes and has shown that the passenger charter, which i had previously advocated, is particularly necessary to prevent a repetition of the inaction of airlines and the competent bodies. however, i propose that it should be mandatory for every passenger to be informed automatically of any exceptional change and to be informed of alternative solutions by sending a message to the mobile phone of the customer concerned.
on behalf of the ppe group. - mr president, i have to go. on behalf of the group of the european people's party, we welcome the commission's ambitious approach to its work programme for 2010. we regard the presence of the commission as what it was intended to be, that is to say, a sign of respect for parliament, a sign that parliament is being taken seriously, and we are glad that you are all here. we regret, however, that more time has been wasted this year, as the delay in adopting the treaty of lisbon has already prevented the legislative programme and the budget from being brought into line this year. we are very hopeful that by 2011 this process can be restored by overcoming minor difficulties. the treaty of lisbon has entered into force, and henceforth we have no objection to the members of the european parliament, the commission or the council not taking decisive action and not starting work, that is to say, enforcing what the treaty of lisbon requires, fulfilling what citizens want, putting them at the centre of our political plans. the european people's party has drawn up two lists of the commission's plans. we sent you details before we approved it. the two lists i will briefly mention are a list of things that the commission should not do and a list of things that we would like to see done. first of all, we would ask the commission not to do what has been the practice so far, because then this debate would be meaningless, that the legislative proposals you have tabled were still only 40% tabled until october this year. if this is the way it's going to be in the future, there's no point in having these kinds of arguments. parliament cannot exercise the right to influence the commission's proposals. that is why we think it is important that these legislative plans, work programmes, are not seen as the five-year plans of the communist regimes, which were not true from the beginning. what they accomplished, it had absolutely nothing to do with the outcome. the second thing we ask of the commission is that it not tolerate lies and misrepresentation. right now, a number of european countries are in crisis because they've been hiding the real data, lying about the extent of the deficit. they've hidden it from the others and we're in the same boat, so it's a lot of things for everyone. that was the case with hungary, that was the case with greece. in these cases we expect the commission not to hold back but to identify and criticise these countries very firmly, because the problem will become bigger later. the famous hungarian reformer of the last century, count széchenyi, said that he who covers up the trouble, grows it. so, not to hide it, but to come out and take decisive action. and in this respect, the commission is exercising its powers! don't get me wrong. i'm not saying the commission is to blame for these crises. these crises are the fault of the governments of these countries, but it is true that in the common interest, we should have been more vocal and more decisive in order to achieve results. now let us turn to what the commission should do. first, put in place and implement an ambitious job creation programme. put the citizens at the heart of our work. work, work, work must be our guiding principle! let me start by saying that, of course, if we're talking to the citizens, we have to speak in a language that the citizens understand. when we say 2020, i'm a former communist country representative, again i'm associating with five-year plans, or the numbers that prisoners are marked with in prisons. why not call the 2020 programme the european union's job creation programme, why not call the stockholm programme - which, by the way, nobody else understands - the programme for the safety of european citizens? so it's all starting with the words. we believe it is important to actively involve smes in the job creation process. i don't want the 2020 jobs programme to be shoved down parliament's throat. this requires a thorough debate, involving not only this parliament but also the national parliaments and national decision-making authorities. let's learn from the lisbon programme - again a name that no one understands - its failure! we must take steps to ensure the safety of our citizens. and, mr. president, i have to go. one comment: man does not live on bread alone, it is important to strengthen common values. we expect the commission to continue its value-based programmes dealing with communism, the coexistence of national minorities, the common past of europe. the european people's party will support you, but we will criticize you very harshly if you deviate from the original programme.
the author's deputy. thank you for your answer. i would like to make a comment on behalf of mr kossa. after all, hungary was unable to take advantage of the hundreds of billions of euros of stimulus provided by the european economic recovery plan because it was precisely these rules that did not allow for a greater economic stimulus, and this led to a further deterioration of the employment situation. in particular, the promotion of the employment of disabled people has not been possible, so a strange contradiction arises here. i'd like your opinion on that.
since the outbreak of the economic crisis, the european union has been criticised on a number of occasions for failing to respond adequately to the crisis. i believe that this debate and mr kirilov's excellent report are a clear refutation of the fact that the european union has been able to respond to these processes. i do not understand the colleagues who are worried that the current simplifications will mean that the processes will not be controlled, because the very great value of cohesion policy is that it has a very precise control mechanism. so, nobody should be worried, and if colleagues are worried about this, i hope it is not a lack of solidarity on their part towards those member states - for example towards my country hungary - that we will not use these funds properly. yes, we'll use it very correctly. this debate is also very important in order to confirm the need for cohesion policy. i'm glad to have mr. hahn and mr. ciolos here. i am very concerned that in mr barroso's first document there was no mention of the cap, and only a passing mention of cohesion policy, when these are inevitably important cohesion policies, important community policies, which are essential to achieve green growth, innovation and job creation, and thus the new objectives of the eu 2020 strategy. so cohesion policy should not be weakened but strengthened.
the debate we've had so far has shown that this is a very complex problem. it is also true that the european union has not yet been able to resolve the problem of how to ensure a fair distribution between producers, processors and traders. as for mr ciolos, i fully agree that it would be good to find a medium and long-term solution. there are four theoretical possibilities here. one, which mr jahr also mentioned, is that the neoliberal position that has so far denied and tried to dismantle intervention systems should be reviewed. i therefore fully agree that we must consider whether these intervention schemes can be thrown away or whether they can be used to regulate the market. the second thing the french government has proposed to the american model is anti-cyclical regulation. the question is whether this can work in europe, but we have to look at this, because the whole market is so volatile that we have to look at all the options. third, the stock option. there was a conference recently on borsa merci telematica italiana, which is an online exchange system, so we need to look at how the exchange systems can be used. i would add to mr ciolos's point that the stock exchange system is not very functional in central europe and the baltic states. the french presidency also proposed the creation of a price monitoring system for the eu. we have to think about this, and we have to think about this - which i know is close to mr ciolos's thinking - to create some kind of foundation for the fruit and vegetable reform model, which can be used in risk management. unfortunately, in the case of cereals, this would require extremely large sums. i fully agree with the commissioner that we must consider all the options, because the union is not able to regulate markets properly at the moment.
mr president, i would like to mention that we should not only be blaming the council. the secretary-general of parliament is missing. the discharge has something to say to the secretary-general about parliament, so we would be extremely happy if he were with us today as well.
mr president, when we go through the discharge procedure and vote on it, the european parliament will take full responsibility for the year 2008. this is the moment when we take the responsibility from the commission, the council and other institutions onto our shoulders. it is not only a formality but a very important moment. however, i think that we have agreed that we will continue the debate and we will go on. do not forget we have an objective reason, namely that it is not so easy to arrive here from spain. i know this because i came from azerbaijan, through baku and madrid and then by road. i am very aware that today is not the right day to pursue this. i think it is enough for us to ask those institutions and the others which are involved in the discharge to show an interest and be present at the vote in may. that is what i would suggest.
the rapporteur is the committee on regional development. − the closure of accounts is a legal act and i do not think that the committee on regional development has any reason to argue against granting the exemption. at the same time, the final tally is also a political assessment. to clarify whether we have achieved the goals we set for ourselves in 2008, whether we have received adequate value for our investment. there are a lot of misconceptions about the evaluation of cohesion policy, even in this house. i want to emphasize very strongly that not every mistake is a fraud. very often we overestimate the criticisms that are very correctly made by the court of auditors or any other audit. i'd like to point out that we don't have any clear metrics. there should be a uniform methodology for measuring effectiveness, efficiency and even absorption capacity, which is of great importance in judging how to proceed with cohesion policy. during 2008, only 32% of expenditure came from this planning cycle, the rest of the money was spent in the pre-2006 cycle. so it's hard to judge how we've managed to fit in in 2008, the new cycle. some member states have even reached 32%. the delay in the use of resources is everyone's fault. the proposals we have made to the commission and parliament since 2008 to simplify the crisis have all served to improve it for us. the ball is in the member states' court, and there is a need for significant progress.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. i'd like to start by saying thank you. the excellent and thorough work of mr staes and the european court of auditors has enabled us to draw up a careful account of the management of parliament in 2008. i also thank my colleagues who have contributed to the refinement of the report by their amendments. we generally agreed on the facts, but we differed on how to correct the errors we had discovered. now, when we vote to waive the exemption, we, the elected representatives, take full legal responsibility for the 2008 fiscal year. we are telling the european citizens that parliament has used the money spent for the purposes for which it was intended and in accordance with the rules. in our day, when the crisis is putting a heavy burden on every citizen, we must be especially careful about spending taxpayers' money. the expectations we have of ourselves must be higher than the expectations we have of others, because that is the key to our own authenticity and integrity. at the same time, we must be aware that our controls alone are not enough to guarantee that money is spent in a smart and orderly way. this can only be achieved by having a reliable, robust internal control system in place. we socialists think that's the most important thing. so that's what i want to focus on. we must put great emphasis on the proper functioning of the internal control system of the institutions under our control, because we believe that it is better to prevent problems than to correct them later. the independence of the organisation is an important guarantee of the proper functioning of internal control. this ensures objectivity, is in line with relevant international auditing rules and best practice. however, standards alone do not guarantee an effective internal control system. there were improvements in this respect by 2009. there is no internal control system, however complex, that is flawless, because it is done by people, so we do the clearance every year. i think it is important to emphasize that we have supported all the amendments that are concrete, achievable and feasible, but we have rejected all the generalizations that do not improve but obscure our position. we rejected any proposal that would reduce the independence of the political groups. we are convinced that the independence and financial responsibility of the european parliament's departments are inseparable. the social democratic group is aware of this responsibility. the other political groups, if they want to improve their own activities, do so. in these terms, i ask you to accept the report and grant the european parliament a discharge.
i would like to remind you that, contrary to the negative expectations that preceded the negative vote in parliament, there have actually been a number of positive developments and it seems that there will be a substantially better agreement between the european union and the united states than before, and if that is true, it could happen before the summer. it has since become clear to all of us that the united states is much more open to these reservations and to seeking constructive solutions to european reservations than we had previously thought. i think we all have the experience that there is much better cooperation and closer dialogue between the council and parliament, and i think it is also very important that commissioner cecilia malmström regularly informs the libe committee, the rapporteurs, the shadow rapporteurs about developments, and i think this is the key to really good agreements in the future. i think it's important that we establish that before we move on. i would also like to say what many have stressed, namely that the socialist group in this parliament is committed, and is also very seriously committed, to reaching an agreement, to reaching an agreement quickly, to reaching a good agreement, i.e. one which takes account of the interests of european citizens, including the interests of data protection. we know and feel the responsibility that this is a very important element in the fight against terrorism, although it is not the only one and perhaps not the most important, but it is very important this particular exchange of data. we see that in the mandate, as it stands, there are many things that have answers and many things that don't have answers. there are still no answers to the questions that our colleagues have raised and that we will be discussing today. i think that these two weeks, which are here now because the vote was delayed because of the flight problems, these are the two weeks that we have. that's an option. it is an opportunity to find answers to the questions and reservations of parliament on which no solutions have yet been found and to which no satisfactory answers have been found. it would be good if the council did not decide before the parliamentary vote, as this could cause further difficulties in the future.
author. - my colleagues! in recent years, very important decisions have been taken in the european union to protect our environment, such as the decision on biodiversity or the water framework directive. the european union water framework directive obliges member states to protect the quality of our waters and prevent pollution. is that a good goal? yes, that's right. are we obligated to do everything in our power to achieve that goal? obviously, yes. is there any mining process that endangers our waters, our environment? i'm afraid it is. and it's a very, very dangerous and also outdated technology. a number of my colleagues and i would like to see this technology banned throughout the european union. the cyanide disaster in tizi ouzou 10 years ago and the accidents since then have been a warning to us. my fellow officers! this is both a fortunate and an urgent moment. it is fortunate because, according to the information received from the commission today, only three countries are using this cyanide mining process and it is fortunate because there are three other countries which have banned the cyanide process, setting an example for the other eu member states. but it's also a time of great urgency, because the rising price of gold is prompting new mines to be opened across europe with this dangerous and outdated technology. so the danger lurking around us is immense. my fellow officers! if we're serious about protecting our water, we can't put cyanide poison ponds alongside our rivers and lakes, and that's what this outdated technology is doing. if we're serious about protecting biodiversity, we can't afford to use techniques that can kill life in rivers, from microorganisms to crustaceans to fish. it's time, colleagues, for action. we should not wait for another disaster to warn us of this. finally, i would like to thank all the colleagues who are present and who will be taking part in the debate and who were unable to be present because of the eruption of the volcano, for their help in drafting this resolution, since we were able to reach a compromise and table a joint text which enjoys the support not only of the people's party but also of the green group, the socialist group, the liberals and the conservatives, and i think that this is absolutely justified because of the seriousness of the matter. i ask and encourage my colleagues to maintain this support until the end of the decision.
on behalf of the s&d group. the group of the party of european socialists and democrats clearly supports the eu ban on cyanide mining, because i would like to draw the commissioner's attention to the fact that it is not enough for the commission to act retrospectively. unfortunately, in the european environment - and in the committee on petitions in particular - there are many examples of pollution being born, being produced and not being prevented, and the european union should therefore make prevention a future objective. and colleagues áder and seeber have also referred to the cyanide disaster in baia mare, the main island, so when we call for a ban on cyanide mining, gold mining, we are told by the very sad, concrete experience of environmental disasters. the current investment in rosa montana in verespataki would be an order of magnitude larger. there are a number of problems with the investment. there is no guarantee that the landscape will not be transformed by the landscaping that accompanies the investment. it releases a lot of toxins into the environment. the mine's life expectancy is only 20 years, so it's hardly creating jobs. there is no guarantee that the investor will restore the environment after the mine is completed. the european socialists and democrats, together with the greens, the efa and the gue, are therefore not only taking the initiative, but are also asking the commission to draw up legislation by 2010 or 2011 to ban cyanide mining in the european union, because pollution does not stop at national borders, even if some countries ban cyanide gold mining, if we do not solve this problem at eu level.
in writing. over the past two years, i have spoken on a number of occasions in the ep plenary and in various forums about the dangers of cyanide mining. i also wrote to the commissioner for the environment, stavros dimas, about the mining projects in romania (verespatak) and bulgaria (chelopech and krumovgrad). the mining of cyanide is also known as the "chemical atom bomb", which is very dangerous for our environment. since 1990, there have been some 30 major cyanide mining accidents worldwide. the tisza disaster ten years ago is europe's worst environmental disaster since chernobyl. in romania, the golden river, which flows into the tisza river, has recently been polluted by a gold mine that closed 40 years ago. last year, when visiting a nearby mine (roșia poieni), president traian băsescu himself declared: "you cannot sit on an ecological bomb like this, it's murder". with regard to the new mining investment plans in romania (verespatak, nagybánya, felsőcsertés, etc.), i would like to stress that the prohibition of cyanide mining is not just a romanian problem, and by no means an ethnic problem, but a universal european problem, on which both individual eu member states and the various parliamentary groups can reach a reasonable agreement. europe cannot remain indifferent to the cyano-catastrophes that have occurred and those that threaten to occur in the future. it is in our common interest to protect people and the environment from cyanide poisoning, just as we do from radioactive radiation and air pollution. i ask that the honourable house vote on our motion.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, we wish to move an oral amendment to the first part of this amendment. the text would read as follows: ‘is of the opinion that, within an efficient and effective corporate governance system, due attention must be paid to the role of management; takes the view that directors-general, directors and heads of unit should be selected on the basis of merit taking into account equal opportunities and geographical balance…’. so the oral amendment is to insert ‘taking into account equal opportunities and geographical balance’ after the word ‘merit’.
in writing. − for the record: as a chief whip of the ppe group, i hereby state that the ppe group’s original intention was to vote against paragraph 18/2 (roll-call vote). a technical error was made by the group.
madam president, i would like to thank íñigo for doing a great job and all those colleagues who took part for their cooperation. after many years of work and quite serious ratification problems, the treaty of lisbon is finally in force. it gives much-needed reinforcement to the role of the european parliament. we must take this opportunity seriously and base our actions on these acquired institutional reforms. we need to concentrate on progressive decision-making for the benefit of all european citizens. we should not take so much time on administrative matters. i am the type of person who is a quick, efficient but good decision-maker. european citizens rightfully expect us to do our job efficiently and transparently. i fully respect the balance and good cooperation among the european institutions, even though i am convinced that the proposed compromise reflects a viable solution. this way we can do our job more efficiently. we will therefore be strengthening the european parliament and doing a great service for european citizens. last, but not least, i personally know some of the already-elected future colleagues, and the sooner they can start working the better. i strongly believe that their expertise will give an added value to our institutions.
mr. president, i have to ask you... my fellow members of parliament! unemployment is undoubtedly the european union's biggest problem. but the situation is not the fault of the workers, the small farmers or the entrepreneurs. the only thing that is responsible for this is the political and economic philosophy that has put multinational corporations ahead of workers, small farmers and local small entrepreneurs. the rootless, profit-oriented multinational corporations want to cut as much profit as possible and as little as possible to take their share of the public burden. for the nations of the european union, any strategic decision that puts the emphasis on locality is good, and any decision that maintains the hegemony of multinational corporations is bad. jobbik wants us to end the economic monopoly of multinational companies and give europe back to small farmers, family businesses, so that we can help them to eliminate unemployment in the european community.
mr president, when the spanish prime minister, josé luis rodríguez zapatero, inaugurated the spanish presidency in strasbourg, he made a speech about europe 2020 without once mentioning why on earth the lisbon strategy failed in the first place. i then asked him the question: how can one possibly come up with a new strategy without analysing the failure of a previous one? now, i have no choice but to repeat my question, because the new document does not say a word as to why this failure happened. please, señor garrido, can you answer my question: how is it possible to establish a new, very ambitious set of goals without first analysing the reasons for the failure of the lisbon strategy?
my fellow members of parliament! i think we all know what a big task we have ahead of us. we need to develop a strategy, together with the member states and the eu institutions, that simultaneously ensures the post-crisis management and creates the possibility for the union and all its member states to be competitive in the global economic environment, to develop in an environmentally sustainable way and thus to increase the living standards of all eu citizens, even appreciably in the short term. but i would like to make two comments on this new strategy, which i think provides the foundation, but it is important to talk about two things. first, some caution and care should be exercised with regard to quantifiable targets. these should be ambitious, but also realistic and achievable. one that takes account of the different starting points and capacities of each member state. poverty in the uk is different from poverty in bulgaria. our education systems are different. for example, the question arises whether it is worthwhile to increase the proportion of university graduates to 40% everywhere, if this does not increase the number of graduates who are unemployed. but i think we should definitely include the development of vocational training among the objectives to be achieved. my second comment is that the strategy should also strengthen the internal cohesion and convergence of the union. i agree with the support for the towing industries, which are the engine of the european economy. at the same time, it should not be forgotten that the development gaps within the 27 member states would be further widened by such a unilateral competitiveness policy that does not address the specificities of the member states. without internal cohesion, there is no external competitiveness. closing the gap would mean more markets, more viable demand, more innovation potential and less social concern for the union as a whole. it is therefore necessary to provide the framework for the less-favoured areas to benefit from the benefits of the internal market. so in time, everyone could become competitive on their own. i hope that cohesion policy will find its place in the new strategy.
the strategy for the future of europe is based on two sets of values, and i would like to point out that these two sets of values are very difficult to reconcile, or perhaps not at all, and that a choice must be made between the two. one value system has the keywords competitiveness, growth, globalisation, and the other has the keyword sustainability. we talk about sustainability in the environmental sense. we know that the growth, the force of globalization, is having a tremendous negative impact on the environment. there is no sustainability. we're talking about sustainability in the social sense. people, small farmers, small and medium-sized enterprises, etc., who cannot keep up with the excessive competition and globalization, they collapse, they fall out of competition, they become impoverished, and this is completely contrary to sustainability in the social sense. i think, and my constituents think, that sustainability is the one of the two values.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, in the european union, economic growth is stagnating and unemployment is above 10%. this means developing a new strategy for sustainable growth and job creation that will be able to boost the union. it depends on its ability to renew itself, its ability to put its economy on a new footing and its ability to give eu citizens a new way of living. this renewal in the union can be brought about by innovation, research and development. the european union is developing a growth strategy for 2020 based on innovation, research and development for the future of eu citizens, which can ensure continued economic growth for the region and provide new jobs for its inhabitants. without resources, r&d cannot create the necessary financial backing and thus cannot exploit the innovation opportunities. innovation can only come from a common effort, a common support. the funds come from three sources: the union, the member states and the private sector. in order to bring innovation to the level of the enterprise, adequate human resources are needed. this is achieved through high quality education and training, coordinated at member state level. universities should be supported to train young researchers who will be able to provide continuous innovation opportunities for smes. in the field of education, digitisation and reducing energy consumption are the two main directions that offer innovation opportunities.
in writing. the eu2020 strategy is being put to practical use by the integrated economic and employment guidelines. i also think it is important to say, in relation to the draft employment guidelines, that inclusive growth can only be imagined if investment in people is actually made. longer life does not in itself mean longer productive lives. particularly relevant in hungary is the investment in healthcare, where people die significantly earlier than in western europe, while childbearing rates are also falling. and we need to maintain the right skills in old age, which is only possible with a more modern, more accessible health care. in fact, we should also think about jobs that are accessible to older people, who are increasingly active, and that benefit younger people who are already disabled. health should therefore also be given a special priority (such as working conditions, more successful rehabilitation, improvement of health protection, etc.). this is also referred to in guideline 8 (investment in human resource development), even if it is not specific and particularly emphatic. there is a lot of debate about health in europe and the world, and no single position, but it is also important to see that europe's competitiveness can be ensured by maintaining a balanced subsistence level in the long term - with a healthier and more active population. please, the european institutions, think further about the strategy and its implementation in this light.
in writing. the eu2020 strategy should promote the 'green revolution' of the european economy, resource-efficient, environmentally friendly and sustainable economic restructuring and green innovation. but progress cannot be about supporting the already above-average regions of europe; we must concentrate a significant part of development on supporting the most backward, most disadvantaged regions. there is still a huge gap in economic efficiency between the eastern and western halves of europe. for example, bulgaria needs three times as much energy to produce a unit of gdp as germany, which further reduces the country's competitiveness if energy prices rise. in supporting the green economy transition, the european union must not forget about existing and proven community policies such as the common agricultural policy and cohesion policy. the cap will also be needed to meet the objectives of protecting the environment and combating climate change. the best farmers in rural europe are the farmers themselves. the eu2020 strategy cannot succeed without cohesion policy. cohesion policy provides all the tools and flexibility needed for an eu economic development policy. cohesion policy instruments can support the achievement of any policy objective, so we can promote the development of renewable energy sources, increase energy and resource efficiency, and encourage green innovation.
i simply do not understand, as a human rights lawyer, what added value is there in terms of protecting the human rights of european citizens by the european union joining the same human rights convention that every single eu member state has already joined. let me make some connections, because i can see that non-lawyer colleagues are being misled here. here's the deal. there is a really important human rights instrument, by the way, called the european convention on human rights. this is not a convention of the european union, but of our quasi-twin brother, the council of europe. if a state infringes the rights of its citizens enshrined in the convention, they may bring an action before the european court of human rights in strasbourg to seek redress or legal redress against their own state. this is a possibility, as everyone knows, for citizens of all eu member states today. i can hardly imagine that there is a member of this house who does not know of a case in which someone in his member state threatened to take me all the way to strasbourg, and he did, winning a case against his own member state. so what's new, what's the added value, besides someone from the eu network getting a well-paid judgeship in strasbourg.
mr. president, mr. minister, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. these moments are very important in the life of the union, as is our debate today. what was considered an insurmountable obstacle years ago is now being discussed here, with what mandate the commission will negotiate the accession of the union to the european convention on human rights. the convention, which this year marks the 60th anniversary of its adoption, has given many citizens the confidence that they can find their way, even against the state. it is closely linked to this debate and it is therefore necessary to reiterate, as mrs reding has already said, that since december the eu charter of fundamental rights, one of the most progressive documents in the field of fundamental rights, has been binding. the convention shall confirm the charter and the charter shall supplement the convention. since december, the lisbon treaty has obliged the union to accede to the convention on human rights. the aim must therefore be to make the accession as successful as possible. the most important question is what added value accession will bring to the lives of the citizens of the union. it is in this context that my report was drawn up, and the libe committee unanimously endorsed it. i therefore ask the council and the commission to do everything in their power during the negotiations to ensure that accession really does bring value, added value for the citizens of the union, without raising excessive expectations. however, there are a number of issues that need to be clarified during the negotiations. one of the key issues is the relationship between the courts. condition for the full exhaustion of domestic remedies. however, i also consider it important to take into account during the negotiations that the reform of the functioning of the strasbourg human rights court will coincide with the union's accession to the convention. the eu's accession to the convention will be a unique experiment, but it cannot jeopardise what is already working in the area of human rights. accession will only succeed if it really strengthens, makes available to people, the institutions that are already in place. let us be careful not to jeopardize this, lest in our enthusiasm we spill the child along with the bath water, as a hungarian proverb aptly puts it. i think this is a very important moment and we're on the right track. i ask the commission and the council to confirm this in their mandate and negotiations for the coming period.
it must be mrs. it is very important that the council of europe, which has a mechanism that has been in place for decades and is monitored by the court of human rights, and the european union will be part of it. i have been saying for a long time that there is a very big problem with the protection of human rights and the protection of minorities in europe, that the council of europe has a functioning system of human rights and minority protection, but the real political weight in europe is the union. i would like to draw attention to what has been said in the excellent report by mr kinga, namely that case law, the law of precedent, the case-low, in many cases provides an important lever for the protection of minorities which the union does not have. and i would like to confirm what congressman sógor said. this could be a precedent for the eu's accession to the council of europe framework convention for the protection of minorities, as 8,5% of the union belongs to minorities and the union has no system for the protection of minorities.
mr. president, i have to ask you... my fellow members of parliament! the financial crisis, unemployment, the growing deficit in public finances and the growth of public debt are the biggest challenges facing the nations of europe today. however, i must draw attention to the corruption that is also common to central european countries, but which is taking on serious proportions in hungary, which has further deepened the crisis and pushed our country into even greater debt by taking on additional loans. the outgoing socialist government in hungary put the hungarian economy in an untenable position, because there was no public investment, no public contract without corruption, whether it was a highway, a bridge renovation, parking, health care, domestic funding or an eu tender. jobbik calls on the newly elected hungarian government to enact and enforce strict anti-corruption legislation, which we are urging all eu member states to do in the wake of the crisis. jobbik believes that it is possible to clean up the political community of corruption.
article 11 of the european convention on human rights defines the right to trade union activity as a human right. in direct contradiction to this provision, last week the hungarian military criminal court severely punished szima judit, the head of a union of ten thousand police officers, for activities that, whether viewed from a layman's or a lawyer's professional point of view, fell exclusively within the sphere of protecting the interests of workers and trade union activity. i emphasize that this did not happen in some third world banana republic, but in a member state of the european union. we are constantly talking here in this chamber and in the committees about the fact that the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon has strengthened the european union's commitment to human rights and made the protection of human rights more effective. i ask that the case of szima judith be a test case, a case study, that we all follow through on how, with the application of european human rights standards, this brave woman can regain the justice, dignity and livelihood she lost.
i apologize if i sound a little more personal than usual, but while we were talking about the cancer program here, and many people were emphasizing how terrible the disease is, how many people die from it, i was forced to think back to when i was diagnosed with cancer four years ago, on this day of the year, and i think i broke some kind of record, as they said in the oncology department. i had 14 tubes hanging out of me from head to toe, i was in intensive care for weeks, and now here i am, a member of the european parliament, raising my three children, living a full life. with my own story, i would like to encourage my female colleagues in particular, but also all european citizens, to do screenings, and with my own story i would like to send a message to my fellow citizens who are now sick, and to their relatives and healers, that they should never give up hope, and i wish them much strength, and i think of them with love and compassion.
in writing. the crisis unfolding in some euro area countries is calling on european decision-makers to protect public money, the community's finances, unconditionally in a way that has never been seen before. the economy and international markets are extremely sensitive to any action taken by the union - such as the measures adopted in today's rescue packages. whole economies could be at risk if we do not continue to manage the crisis at european level in a way that is proportionate to its gravity, so it is no exaggeration to say that the eyes of the world are on our finance ministers and the european institutions. in some eu member states, oligarchic governments, driven by private interests, have driven their economies to the brink of bankruptcy and made promising futures inaccessible to entrepreneurs, families and educated young people. on this basis, the rapporteur's intention to increase the accountability of the member states can only be welcomed. today, this is one of the key questions of successful crisis management. the end of the era of corrupt governments is needed more than ever in this time of crisis.
the rapporteur. - mr president, fellow members of the house of representatives. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. report on the activities of the european investment bank in 2008. that's the title of our current agenda item. in reality, however, this report is much more than an evaluation of the activities of the european investment bank two years ago. my fellow members of parliament! i think that we must now reaffirm that the union has reached an epoch-making point. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon some six months ago, the global financial and economic crisis, its effects and the eu's response to it, all point to a turning point in the union's history. the second decade of the 21st century is the beginning of a new era in the life of the european union. in this new era, this report is being born, and the most important questions and challenges of this new era, i think, need to be answered by us in the european parliament and in the european investment bank. it's about the activities of a bank, a financial institution, two years ago, and yet, unusually, it can be said that despite the circumstances of the global financial and economic crisis, the activities of a bank, a financial institution, can be described in a positive way. two years ago, the european investment bank responded swiftly and effectively to the emerging global financial and economic crisis by stepping up its lending activities, particularly to small and medium-sized enterprises, and by fully engaging in the european union's economic recovery plan. six months ago, the treaty of lisbon entered into force. it provides the means and the opportunity to further strengthen the process of organisational, supervisory and content-related renewal of the european investment bank. the bank has also taken substantive steps in this respect in 2008, before the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. the european investment bank is also clearly feeling and experiencing a conscious preparation for the post-2014 eu budgetary perspective, with the possibility of involving itself in the financing of macro-regional strategies, supporting rural development, new energy sources, green investments and infrastructure development. we also feel it is important, and this is why the report includes the european investment bank in the financing of the eu 2020 strategy, which is being adopted and which focuses on job creation. this consideration of support for job creation has also led the european investment bank to support small and medium-sized enterprises. i would like to draw your attention to two final questions. i feel it is important that the european investment bank continues to help to break the infrastructure divide within the european union. it is important to support programmes that help to bring the union's infrastructure level into line. and last but not least, in recent years the european investment bank has always received the support it needs from the european parliament to operate. i believe that, in the light of the preparatory work carried out in recent months, the bank will continue to receive the support it needs from the european parliament, in addition to the constructive criticism expressed in the report. thank you for your attention and i look forward to the debate.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) on the establishment of a european monetary fund. - my fellow members of parliament! the committee's opinion on the report took the view that the european investment bank had a well-researched crisis management in 2008. what do you expect from a development bank in a time of crisis? firstly, it is trying to compensate for the decline in lending activity of commercial banks by creating liquidity. it can be said that since 2008 the eib has steadily increased the size of its soft loans and has committed to provide an additional €15 billion per year for smes in 2009 and 2010. why is that so important? of course, because they are the biggest job creators, and we in europe have the biggest problems with employment right now. we need to create jobs. the bank also did a good job of analysing, precisely in this respect, how it had re-grouped the different target areas. the bank has made a significant contribution to helping smes to find their place in the world as quickly as possible. the committee would like to recommend to president maystadt three areas where we believe the bank could be made more efficient and transparent. the first is to increase the bank's focus on the countries most affected by the crisis, thereby also increasing the union's internal cohesion. secondly, the bank should not only partner with large commercial banks to finance smes, but also involve regional banks and savings banks, as these institutions have the best knowledge of the markets. finally, as a third point, we consider it necessary that the financial institutions in the partner group are obliged to transfer at least 20% of the profits from the eib's 50% total financing to the smes financed, i.e. more than what is required by the current contracts. overall, therefore, the eib has been well tested and has been at the forefront of responding to the crisis, but further joint efforts are needed with the european commission and the european development bank to make progress, particularly in the area of job creation.
the rapporteur. - mr president, mr president maystadt, i have to ask you to leave. officer rehn, please. allow me to thank my colleagues, the president, the commissioner, for this valuable debate. i would like to make three comments at the end of the months of intensive and, i believe, valuable preparatory work that has gone into today's vote. as montecuccoli put it hundreds of years ago, to make a successful war, to make a successful war, you need money, money, money. it is clear that to solve the economic problems that affect us all, we need to create jobs, jobs and jobs. it is important that the european investment bank has always kept this objective in mind, and today's debate can confirm to everyone that it will continue to be a partner of both the european parliament, the commission and the council in this endeavour. i find the comments of your members to be important, calling for greater investment banking attention to be given to the eu member states affected by the crisis. i think we're knocking down doors here, too. finally, and not least in relation to the mandate for the european investment bank's lending policy outside the union, i consider important the comments which have just been made here in the plenary debate, which underline the importance of supporting and lending to european countries bordering the union. ukraine was mentioned, and the balkans were mentioned. i agree with them myself. last but not least, allow me to mention the names of two gentlemen at the end of this debate. the heads of these institutions are always addressed with words of appreciation. i would like to congratulate mr maystadt on his work, but i would also like to thank mr de crayencour and mr brito, who have been excellent partners to the european parliament. last but not least, allow me to thank my fellow congressmen for their cooperation. it was a joint effort, a joint success.
in writing. – the proposal we are debating this week is not a technical one. it's a matter of justice and common sense – in two ways. it's not only morally, but also economically clear that we need to grant the social protection and the maternity benefits to pregnant self-employed women and self-employed men's pregnant spouses or life partners. we cannot discriminate those women or the partners of those men who chose to dedicate themselves to this type of work, especially when we all agree that we do need to encourage more women to enter the world of business. while we are trying to find our way out of the crisis, we encourage creation of work, including that of independent workers. this is also why we need to make sure that there is an incentive for women to start such work opportunities. secondly, we cannot discriminate the new-born children in these families. it is unacceptable when a child has the right to have her mother or father around (without jeopardizing the living of the family) for the first weeks of his or her life, because the parent is classically employed, while the other child hasn't got this right, because the parent is self-employed.
i congratulate mrs ticau on her report and on the directive, but at the same time this directive is as good as dead horses without money. i would like to draw commissioner oettinger's attention to the fact that resources should be made available in the budget after 2013 and in the cohesion funds. it is clear that in addition to eu funds, member state money, private capital and contributions from residents are needed, and therefore a specific co-financing is needed. my colleague mr marinescu has already mentioned that we should be able to identify which member states have implemented best practice through direct aid, credit lines or otherwise. in hungary, 250 000 flat houses have been renovated, as old flats in the new member states - as my estonian and former colleague has said - are in a particularly dramatic situation. i think that this panel programme should be continued and extended to the poor in rural areas, as the green member has said.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, in romania civil servants are facing a 25% cut in their salaries, in spain public sector employees will see 5% to 15% of their wages disappear, and in portugal – not to mention greece – governments are making huge efforts to save on human resources. in the uk, the new government has already indicated that there is a need for a major package of financial savings this year. does anybody in this parliament think that now is the time for the european parliament to spend more on anything – to increase spending, have more staff for groups, library, committees, it staff and an additional eur 1 500 on assistants’ allowances? we are debating the second tranche of the eur 1 500; i say that even the first is absolutely unnecessary. it should not be a question of putting the second into reserve; we should eliminate both because this is not the time to do this. we are all aware of increased competences, but more competences do not necessarily require more spending. it requires more efficient spending, more accountability and more responsibility. i completely agree with mrs trüpel, who said that there are ways to make additional savings. we do not need a fleet of cars here in strasbourg. we have free public transportation. i use the tram every day. instead of using business class tickets, we can use economy class in order to make savings. i, for one, as a matter of principle, have never flown business class when coming here from budapest. all in all, while the discussion between the bureau and committee on budgets was very useful in this respect, i think that a tremendous amount of further opportunities exist where we can make savings.
i support this report because it will reduce the enormous administrative and bureaucratic burden that farmers currently have to bear. i very much hope that the report will lead to a new relationship between the officials responsible for implementing the common agricultural policy in the member states, especially in post-communist countries such as hungary, and between farmers, and that the kind of continuous punitive, fines and terrorising practice that has been in place until now will end, and that a kind of cooperation will finally be established between the officials and the customers. i think it is very important that the responsibility should not only be on the side of the farmers, who have had to pay fines for every little thing, but also that the state should be responsible when the agency, for example, pays the farmer's payment late and these should be claims that can be enforced by the courts on the part of the farmers as customers.
in writing. - i would like to congratulate my colleague astrid lulling on the adoption of her report, which represents an important step forward in solving a problem that has been going on for a very long time. the 1986 council directive was unable to resolve satisfactorily the situation of spouses and partners of selfemployed persons who contribute to the pursuit of the activity and to the profits of the undertaking without having the status of employees or partners. it was therefore appropriate to repeal that legislation and to introduce a new directive establishing the recognition of the work of assisting spouses and their social security protection at the same level as that of entrepreneurs. another important result of the rapporteur and the european parliament is that, contrary to the original council proposal, the scope is no longer limited to self-employed activity in agriculture for income-generating purposes, as this target group also constitutes the majority of those working in, for example, small and medium-sized enterprises or in trade. although the council did not accept several important proposals by the rapporteur and the parliament, such as leaving the member states to provide an equivalent level of social protection for spouses and partners and ensuring that member states can maintain restrictive rules relating to certain social security schemes or levels, the proposed directive as a whole is nevertheless a significant step forward.
madam president, i would like to have some guidance from the rapporteur on two issues. one is the issue of the ‘presumption of consent’ system and the ‘presumption of the lack of consent’ system. as i understand it, these two systems still coexist in member states. in one system it is presumed that the deceased donor would have consented to the transplantation. it seems to be quite obvious that this is a much more effective system from the point of view of the number of transplantations made available. should it not be recommended to every member state to use the presumption of consent system? the other thing is anonymity versus traceability. there seems to be a kind of controversy between the two. what are the issues here? what is anonymity and traceability?
the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has delivered an opinion. - my fellow members! first of all, let me thank the author of the afco report, mr. atondo, for his cooperation. i believe that the afco and libe working closely together and the droit committee complementing our work have successfully circulated the issue of our accession to the convention and have correctly pointed out the issues that have arisen and still need to be clarified. i myself, on behalf of the libe committee, have set out to ensure - and this was confirmed by the committee - that our accession will really bring added value to the citizens of the union and that they will be aware of these values and opportunities, while avoiding excessive expectations. there are a number of issues that will need to be clarified in the negotiations in the coming period, such as the relationship between the strasbourg and luxembourg courts, as neither the luxembourg nor the strasbourg court's current system of jurisdiction will be changed. i think it is important to stress that the reform of the functioning of the strasbourg court coincides with accession, and this is an essential aspect, and i would also like to stress that this accession will only be successful if it really strengthens the institutions that have been operating so far, and the member states' judicial systems must take the necessary steps to this end. this is a unique experiment in the eu's accession to the convention, but it cannot jeopardise what is already working to uphold our human rights, and it is very important that we pay attention to the fact that it will only succeed if it strengthens the existing institutions and brings real added value to our citizens.
ladies and gentlemen, i'm very sorry that i only have a minute to talk about this very important subject, and allow me to inform you that even at this very moment, terrible floods are devastating northern hungary, the uplands, poland. the lives of hundreds of people are at stake and we can assure them that from strasbourg, from the european parliament, we stand in solidarity with the victims, we sympathize with them and we wish for this devastating flood to end as soon as possible, and i ask the leadership of the european parliament to offer help to the victims if necessary. at present, there are dozens of cities in northern hungary that are completely underwater. we hope that fate and the good lord will take these disaster-stricken areas into his mercy. the biggest problem with this report is that the representatives here, all of us, are interested in raising human rights to a higher dimension, in protecting human rights, but by joining the convention, human rights protection is not increased, but only the idea of a united states of europe is raised, which we do not think is good, because sovereign states, member states have already joined this convention, and we are opposed to this symbolic decision suggesting that we are part of a great empire.
my fellow members of the house of representatives! i have been a member of the european parliament for a year now and i am beginning to get used to the unusual fact that each report is debated according to the same script. of the nearly 800 representatives in this chamber, 20 or 30 of us are here, and there are some of us who are not even bound by duty, but simply because we do not want to vote on the basis of party discipline, but on the basis of inner conviction and well-informedness, we are experiencing the same thing. we ask questions and never get answers to our questions, only generalizations. i would ask the commissioner responsible for human rights to make an exception this time and give a precise answer to my question as to what the added value and the advantages are for european citizens of the european union joining the european convention on human rights, to which all the eu member states are already parties. i would ask you to give me just one example of what this accession will bring to the citizens of europe in terms of the protection of human rights. thank you in advance for making an exception to the rule for once.
on behalf of the s&d group. some general and some specific comments on the plan: we naturally consider the stockholm programme to be very important and that is why the action plan has been a source of some disappointment, although its level of ambition is not quite in line with the importance attached to it by parliament and the majority with which it voted amendments on several issues. we see that the most important or many important points of the plan are being postponed to 2013-2014, or what for this year, there are already slips. the general problem is that cooperation between the commission and parliament is still unclear in the case of international agreements, although feedback has improved a great deal, for example on the us negotiations with swift, on the us negotiations with tftp, but there are still unresolved points. some concrete suggestions: we regret that hate speech is not included in the legislative plan, only the reports and the framework decision on implementation are included in the plans. it's not enough to inform people about basic human rights. we know that enforcement is related to how much people know about their rights. on immigration, i would like to say that cooperation has started, but here too the level of ambition does not seem to be sufficient. two other important issues are the issue of visa reciprocity, where new and effective solutions are needed, partly because of the reintroduction of the visa requirement, partly because of inequalities, and the elimination of the discrimination still existing against the new member states in the area of free movement of labour.
in writing. other after the disaster of the deep-sea drilling rig off the coast of the united states, we too have some lessons to learn. first of all, we should point out that, although deep-sea drilling involves the most advanced industrial technologies, it is not without risks today. we must also be clear that the growth of private investment in the oil sector cannot result in policy-makers abandoning their right to strict environmental regulation. the us oil disaster is a good opportunity for the eu to review its own safety standards. they're too common today. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. the review is also justified because the rules, which are somewhat more specific, focus more on the steps to be taken after a disaster has occurred. prevention aspects are thus relegated to the background. the us example should be followed by a clear delimitation of the responsibilities of oil well owners, operators and supervisory authorities. industry standards and voluntary offers from companies are not reassuring. clear, legally-enforced security guarantees are needed.
in writing. the recovery from the economic crisis is very bumpy, and the euro area has been shaken by fiscal problems in greece and other member states. all of this has raised the question of whether europe can compete with the economic power of the united states or china. the eu's 2020 strategy must therefore be an effective response to the economic and financial crisis, and a means of keeping up the economic strength of this bloc that is the lifeblood of 500 million people, so that the 27 do not fall behind their economic and political rivals. the complexity of today's challenges calls for an integrated policy toolbox. the european union should attach high importance to research and innovation in order to address challenges such as climate change and increasing global competition. and as it has become more important than ever in the post-crisis period to stimulate growth and job creation through research and innovation, i propose that this be set as the number one objective of the eu 2020 strategy. however, we have reason to fear that the current budget does not sufficiently cover the financial needs to meet the challenges of the 21st century. as a member of the committee on budgets, i am calling on the european commission to come forward with a bold, ambitious and feasible new budgetary model to make the eu 2020 strategy a success.
in writing. perhaps the most important task ahead is to set the 2020 strategy on the road to aligning member states' economic and employment policies on common principles. i would like to welcome the fact that, in addition to the sustainable social market economy, environmental protection and innovation aspects, the strategy places a strong emphasis on combating poverty and exclusion and strengthening social cohesion, which is a prerequisite for the former and one of the main pillars of the programme of the spanish-belgian-hungarian presidency trio. i consider it an important step forward that the european commission, in the second half of its integrated guidelines for the strategy, sets ambitious and quantified targets in this area, both for employment of the working age population at 75% and for a 25% reduction in the number of people living below the national poverty line. in order to monitor and control the achievement of these objectives and to assess the fight against social exclusion, it is worth considering the application of the 'laeken indicators' adopted by the laeken european council in 2001 and their components, which have been extended and further detailed in the meantime. the laeken indicators provide a detailed and reliable picture of the situation of certain groups in society in certain segments of the public sector and have been successfully used in recent years by a number of eu institutions, including eurostat.
for the past 8 years, the post-communist dictatorship in hungary has consistently trampled on the human rights of the hungarian people. in addition, he has broken up or dispersed almost every street demonstration. the national ombudsman service has almost 100 excellent lawyers, with the help of their lawyers, most of the cases could be appealed before the hungarian courts, but there were cases when it was necessary to go to strasbourg to the european court of human rights, for example in the famous bukta case. the european union is now trying to destroy the well-functioning so-called strasbourg system under the guise of joining the european convention on human rights. i call on every hungarian and european human rights organisation to monitor this process, to protest, among other things, against the atondo report voted today, which, as i say, makes it impossible, destroys the european system of human rights protection. hungary's historical responsibility is not to accelerate this dangerous process but to prevent it during the hungarian presidency.
my fellow members of the house of representatives! i'm curious if you think there's something incredibly bizarre going on here. we are holding what seems to be an extremely important debate on the financial and economic crisis which is causing the tragedy of millions of europeans and on the future of europe, and of the nearly 800 members, about 40 are here as usual. we are encouraging european economic actors and european citizens to save energy, and we have been doing so for three days now, but in each plenary session, if you look at the cameras, you can see the energy waste we are putting into a stadium-sized room, with more than 40 members present only at the time of the vote. 27 in the interpreters' booth 27
gentlemen, my colleagues! europe has two big tasks: to develop a new strategy, which we are discussing now, and which i think is shaping up well, but europe is facing a turning point if it does not find a new way of operating. the events of the past few weeks in connection with the crisis in greece, and i would argue with mr gauzes that unfortunately the european union and the member states, and mrs merkel in particular, have reacted too late to this situation, and that europe is therefore at a turning point. this is a very dangerous turning point, whether we go in the direction of renationalization, national enclosure, egoism or whether we go in the direction of community. if we do not move towards community, then the programme formulated by mr barnier will not be implemented and will be worthless. it is very important that we do not forget the old policies, the cohesion policy, the common agricultural policy, or, as commissioner andor says, how we can renew the european social model, when we set new objectives. we are at a turning point, colleagues, and the past few weeks have shown that the old model does not work, the current model does not work properly. i support the fact that national budgets are audited by the commission before they are presented to the national parliament.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen of the house. first of all, i would like to express my appreciation to the rapporteurs for their excellent work and thank the commissioners for their remarkable and valuable thoughts. a few years ago, a good friend of mine, a father, told me that in life, you're always faced with the situation that you're either part of the problem or part of the solution. in my view, the eu 2020 strategy is now more part of the problem than the solution. i think it's our shared responsibility to make this strategy part of the solution as much as possible. let me pause here for a moment and remind you that the very name of the strategy itself is problematic. in the vast majority of the languages of the european union, the eu 2020 strategy means nothing in the real world. it's hard to imagine that a community of over 500 million people, over 500 million citizens, can identify with a strategy, a concept, a recipe for solving problems in their personal lives, that they can't grasp, that they can't relate to, that this title is so far removed from their personal lives. this may be a title for a very talkative marketing consultancy, but it's not about marketing, it's about europeans in the flesh. there is another wise saying: he who seeks much, gets little. in my opinion, the strategy of 'just part of the problem' is doing too much and too little. perhaps the most important thing would be for you to talk about the most important issue, and in this regard i would like to suggest that i think that regional development needs to be strengthened. strengthening regional development means investment, growth and job creation, and i think the problem that people are facing most is the need for jobs, jobs and jobs. these are the thoughts i would like to bring to your attention.
mr president, while commissioner reding confirmed, and president barroso reconfirmed in his letter today, that the women’s charter commits the commission to promoting and ensuring gender equality and women’s rights in all policy fields, i am disappointed that this has not been put into practice for the eu 2020 strategy. should we not be more ambitious than we were for the lisbon strategy? ignoring 52% of the available skills, knowledge and workforce of europe for any sector or any level would be a serious loss. if europe wants to exploit all its potential and get out of the crisis we need to ensure that the women’s employment rate is raised to at least 70% – to be shown through specific gender statistics. we also need specific targets so that we can measure the commitment of each member state to gender equality, and make improvements thereto. how? we need to decrease the gender pay gap by 10% in each member state. we need to revalue the predominantly female health sector by increasing wages and improving conditions, as well as the availability of the services, as it is an increasingly important sector for our ageing society. we need to increase the numbers of women in decision-making bodies such as managerial and executive board positions based on a norwegian 40% quota model. we need to increase the possibilities available for women in research and development and innovation, and train them in new green jobs. member states cannot neglect to expand, improve and implement the barcelona targets in all member states. we need the true commitment of the european union and all member states by involving all people when working towards a smart, green progressive society. i am convinced that our commissioner, mr andor, is going to do it.
the committee on industry, research and energy has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 on the common organisation of the market in milk and milk products. − as rapporteur for the committee on industry, research and energy, i would like to express our concern that the current financial framework does not have the capacity to finance the high priority european policy initiatives at the appropriate level. the european union's powers have been significantly extended by the lisbon treaty and we should finance policies in the fields of industry, research and development, such as space policy, innovation policy or strengthening certain existing policies, such as research and development, energy and industrial development. i am sure my colleagues will appreciate that these are the places where the most jobs can be created in the european union, and that it is therefore strategically important to support these policies. our main objective for 2011 is to ensure that the seventh research framework programme is not burdened by these policies, and to find other sources of funding for this, as the continuation of the seventh research framework programme is itself very risky. the committee on industry is also convinced, and we all agree, that budgetary flexibility is needed to make the set-plan, the european strategic energy technology plan, more effective than it is today. it is perhaps not surprising that i should like to conclude by saying that as a result of the last five years, we have given priority to small and mediumsized enterprises, and therefore our promises to small and mediumsized enterprises cannot remain empty promises. we are currently missing these from the draft submitted by the commissioner and we want the council and the commission to come up with innovative ideas that we can support.
thank you for your time, mr. president. my fellow officers. as i'm looking at the comments, i can see that we've observed two opposing styles, two opposing ways of thinking. we are raising new and new challenges, coming up with new and new ideas, and pushing for more effective and faster implementation of our existing programmes. that's very good, because these are good and important programs. others want to cut back on the european budget, citing the difficulties of the member states. my fellow officers. the european budget is not the cause of the problem, it is part of the solution. we have tools that, if we use them well, can make every member state of the european union better off. i am thinking of support for small and mediumsized enterprises, the development of underdeveloped areas and support for agriculture in general. at the same time, we must not forget that we are preparing a trilogue, we want to give a clear mandate to the draftsman of the report and to the parliament's delegation to make this negotiation fruitful. if we go into detail now, we're going to miss our most important messages. i completely agree with the socialists that the gaza problem is a very big problem, but i don't think it has a place in the trilogue this june. if we bring the politics of the day here, why don't we talk about the floods in central europe? my own constituency is suffering terribly. families' lives have been ruined by the rains of the past few weeks. of course we have to stand up, but parliament has other means of doing so, as well as other means of solving the problem in gaza. so i suggest we follow the informant.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. she must be a woman. my fellow members of the house of representatives! first of all, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur on his hard work, as the measure that has been under negotiation for years now seems to be finally coming to fruition thanks to the treaty of lisbon. the first of the five measures in the council's roadmap. the importance of the directive is fundamental, because when we are able to move and live freely within the union, it is also important for citizens to be able to understand what is happening to them and to understand themselves in a difficult situation such as the initiation of criminal proceedings. the stockholm programme is one of the initiatives that concretely addresses the fundamental objectives of the european union. this makes eu law the lifeblood of the community effort and the stockholm programme accessible to citizens. i fully support the inclusion of the relevant paragraphs of the charter of fundamental rights and the council of europe convention on human rights. after lisbon and our accession to the human rights convention, at dawn, this is to be expected. at the same time, i think it's important to draw attention to a very important issue that the report doesn't address. citizens belonging to a national minority, even if they are living in large numbers within a member state, should have the same right to use their mother tongue in criminal proceedings as a citizen who is accidentally dragged into that member state. and it is precisely because of this provision of community law that you will be able to use your mother tongue. this important legislative step should encourage member states to extend the principle to their own nationals who speak a national minority language. the coherence of the union requires that the transposition of community law be accompanied by rules which are the responsibility of the member states, for example on the use of minority languages.
madam president! floods are devastating hungary and neighboring slovakia. parliamentary elections were held in both countries almost simultaneously. from this parallel, a powerful metaphor emerges. as we work in a broad-based partnership to help flood-stricken areas, we are also unwittingly thinking of the countries of the former eastern bloc that have been stricken by communism. this includes my own country, post-communist romania, which is in crisis. i express my sympathy for the victims of the floods and ask for swift and effective financial support from the union and parliament. it is good that the elections in hungary and slovakia brought an anti-communist victory. i ask the european parliament to help our countries overcome the legacy of a communist past that has caused crises.
madam president! in march this year, the ep adopted a resolution calling on cuba to release political prisoners. the resolution was prompted by the tragic death of a hunger-striking prisoner. the cuban regime has reacted cynically and said it will not bow to international pressure. in the light of this precedent, it is incomprehensible that under the spanish presidency of the eu, there are increasing voices that the eu should review its strategy for cuba. the world has changed, we need to soften our attitude, that's kind of the argument. in recent years, much has changed, but cuba has remained an oppressive dictatorship. the eu is therefore committed to the principle of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to the principle of respect for the rule of law. house of honor! the eu's common foreign policy action must not include sweeping compromises on human rights. the common foreign policy needs consistency and credibility.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. my fellow members of the house of representatives! millions of european citizens are waiting for us to make quick decisions. the victims of the floods in central europe, millions of european citizens in their plight, are watching us with expectation and confidence. the lives of millions of poles, czechs, slovaks and hungarians have been affected in recent weeks by floods and natural disasters in central europe. there is a hungarian proverb that says, "he who gives quickly gives twice". the european parliament seems to be meeting this expectation. a resolution on aid has been drafted and we can decide this week. we expect the european commission to provide the same rapid and efficient financial assistance to the citizens of central europe for reconstruction.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. my fellow members of the house of representatives! jobbik considers that the provision of adequate information to consumers is very important and we support the mandatory indication of the place of origin and we also support the fact that the distributor is responsible for the regulations as well as the manufacturer. in addition to the often difficult to interpret figures, we also stress the introduction of a uniform colour-coded marking that distinguishes between healthy and unhealthy products. but this is not enough to make healthy food more widely available, for it must be said that multinational corporations are responsible for the distribution of so-called 'poor quality' food throughout europe. it should be said that companies like cora, tesco, auchan and metró are responsible for flooding the market with what is called food waste in hungary. he doesn't understand why hungary needs chinese garlic, chinese peaches, frozen brazilian chicken or slovakian baby food with cancer. jobbik is of the firm opinion that small farms should be supported instead of multi-farms. this is going to be the answer to healthy food.
consumers need to know what they are eating and to this end, we in hungary clearly support the colour-coded combined labelling hybrid system. the hungarian consumer protection association clearly supports it. this combined color-coding system is a very good, easy-to-understand, contradiction-avoidance system. this will allow you to get authentic information and to choose healthier products. to address concerns about the consumption of traditional products, this labelling system is only recommended for certain product categories. that's perfectly clear. we also support the inclusion of the country of origin as widely as possible. this regulation should be strengthened, indicating the place of origin of the single ingredient in the case of fruit and vegetables, meat, fish and others.
in writing. in today's debate, the european parliament must take a stand on the very important question of how to transform the current statistical reporting system under eurostat in order to avoid similar cases to the greek scandal in the future. i would like to remind you that the greek fraud was exposed in 2004 and that the socialist hungarian government was also cheating during the same period, but the union has not taken any effective steps to reform the statistical reporting system since then. i think it is a good thing that the commission is considering giving eurostat audit powers, but i am convinced that we must go further than that because the future of the single currency is at stake. what do i see as the opportunity to move on? the excessive deficit procedure should not only penalise member states that have repeatedly breached their commitment to the 3% deficit target set by the maastricht treaty, but also those that have been misleading investors and the union for years by providing false statistics, thus endangering the stability of the euro area. i agree with the trend that staff of national statistical offices should take personal responsibility for the quality of the data provided to eurostat. i therefore propose that, in the light of the work of the council working party chaired by herman van rompuy, we ask the commission to draw up a much stricter system of sanctions than the current one.
mr president, i have prepared a short statement for today, which i should like to read. it is a great honour for me to be nominated vice-president of the european parliament with the support of the european people’s party. it was a similar honour to receive the highest state decoration of romania, the order of the star, in december 2009 at the commemoration of the 20th anniversary of the fall of communist dictatorship in romania. twenty years ago in timisoara, people of diverse ethnic backgrounds and different beliefs, united by understanding and courage and facing and running the same risks together, rose up against the ceauşescu regime. in the same way as back then, i continue my efforts today to represent my country’s interests in the spirit of the fight for human, minority and religious rights and for freedom, while remaining committed to european and christian values. i am committed to furthering the european integration of former communist countries and nations in the eastern and central european region, in particular that of the hungarian minority community in romania that i represent as a member of the european people’s party. it fills me with joy to be a member of the european parliament in the period following the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, which marks a new beginning in the history of a united europe. thank you for your attention. (applause)
my fellow members of the house of representatives! the protracted crisis has made it clear that the union has no more time to waste. there is a need for immediate action on economic policy issues. we need to act in three areas simultaneously: economic governance, a long-term growth strategy and financial services reform. we must also do this without forgetting that the common policies, the common agricultural policy and the cohesion policy, which have worked well, have their place in the new situation. without internal cohesion and safe food production, we certainly cannot succeed in the world. in light of all this, i ask the president of the commission whether he is committed to aligning the europe 2020 strategy with existing common policies. as a defender of the community method, and for this reason i have great respect for you, do you intend to maintain the principle in the three areas of the union's economic policy mentioned above that any changes must be made only by treating the union as a whole, taking account of the interests of the non-euro area member states, and ensuring that the internal cohesion of the union is not undermined?
madam president, do you think, commissioner, that the lisbon treaty is the greatest political achievement for our house? i do. do you agree that the lisbon treaty’s new competences are our best means to modernise our economy? i do. do you think this is the way for us to achieve jobs and growth? i do. if your answers are the same ‘yes’ as mine, then you have to agree that to manage the more general financial framework and to provide the financial means to achieve our targets laid down in the lisbon treaty has to be priority number one for this house and for the council and commission too.
first of all, i'd like to thank the commissioner for her response and commitment to the disability cause. i have two supplementary questions related to this. the main problem with the use of the structural funds has indeed been raised. this is a problem that is particularly acute in eastern europe. in the past, nationalized communist castles were used to house people with disabilities, mainly mentally impaired people. one of the problems is that the structural funds have been used to renovate these castles, and these castles have been abolished and disabled people have been moved out. what about these castles? so does the commission have any plans to look at this problem in a broader perspective, in relation to tourism and job creation?
author. − mr president, the fact that the commission has chosen to reiterate and strengthen its commitment to making equality between women and men a reality is a welcome development. the form chosen is a document entitled a ‘women’s charter’ presented on the occasion of international women’s day. this document follows the commitment made to the european parliament by commission president barroso to produce a women’s charter, during discussions prior to his election for a second term in office. the document is additionally in commemoration of the 15th anniversary of the platform for action at the beijing un world conference on women and the 30th anniversary of the un convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. in summary, the document fills many roles and all of them important. how does the commission envisage involving the other eu institutions, civil society and other stakeholders in this initiative? a recent eurobarometer survey on gender equality showed that 62% of europeans believe that gender inequality still exists in many areas of society. how will the women’s charter tackle this perception of inequality? how can the content of the women’s charter be translated into measurable goals and clear targets? as is customary, the commission will continue to work on the basis of a five-year strategy for equality between women and men. the current road map covers the period 2006-2010. how will the commission’s forthcoming five-year strategy for gender equality be linked to the women’s charter and how will the stakeholders be involved in this work? concerning the future, the report clearly shows that our current problems include the need for more data and the fact that gender equality achievements are not assessed properly due to the lack of clear targets. if you are determined to obtain results, we need to evaluate the causes of inequality and assess the result of our actions. the report is about the assessment of the gender equality roadmap between 2006 and 2010, but of course we have to be more ambitious. lastly, i would just like to mention the european protection order; we cannot wait any longer to give all women victims in europe the best protection. under the lead of the spanish presidency, i urge the commission and the council to come to a progressive and effective agreement as soon as possible.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, despite the achievements of the eu gender equality policies in the last half century, which we have talked about today, there is still a lot to accomplish, as many speakers have said. the ambitious goals of the 2006 and 2010 eu road map – and many of the meps were here at the time when we were talking to the commission about the older road map – where we called for economic independence, reconciliation of private life and professional life, equal representation, eradication of violence, elimination of stereotypes and the promotion of gender equality in external policies, need to be further pursued. we can all see this. in fulfilling the aims of the old road map and defining the objectives of the new road map, to which this debate and all the reports should have pointed, we see that the commission needs to introduce specific measures in order to assure the strength of the existing road map, and also to learn from its weaknesses and to overcome these weaknesses. my main concern is the visibility, the visible influence that we can have on national and regional level instruments achieving gender equality in the field. although, as mr romeva i rueda said, it is still difficult to assess the financial crisis, it is absolutely clear to all of us that this period has had particularly serious consequences for women. it is therefore very much the case, and should be highlighted endlessly, that inadequate investment in economic and social opportunities for women completely limits economic growth and slows down the reduction of poverty and social disparities in our europe. beside this, what was missing from the old road map – actually it was talked about but not much was done – is combating multiple discrimination, since compound discrimination based on age, disability, ethnic or racial background, religion or national origin and social economic status creates multiple barriers to women’s empowerment and social advancement. this is something we do not talk about very much. just as rarely do we talk about the importance of collecting, processing and publishing disaggregated data. finally, primarily tools... (the president cut off the speaker.)
i'm very pleased with this debate today on women's rights and the excellent reports. what i don't like is that most women, at least in my country, hungary, don't know their rights and can't assert them. this is a situation that needs urgent attention. one of the reasons he can't enforce his rights is because he can't afford a lawyer. what possibilities do i have in mind? specialist lawyers, free legal aid, an educational website that answers everyday women's legal problems. what questions are involved? i haven't had a maintenance allowance in months. what should i do, where should i turn? my husband abuses me, he beats me. i call the police, they say it's private, we can't interfere. are they right, or where am i gonna get help? i have three kids, i'm 20th in the world for a job interview, i'm rejected for all sorts of reasons. is there any room for appeal? as soon as my workplace found out i was pregnant, they fired me. is there somewhere i can turn? in matters like this, you should... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. the further enlargement of the schengen area is positive and should be supported by all means, as it will now make one of the most important of the union's achievements, the free movement of citizens, available to all eu citizens. this is a tangible benefit for citizens today in their everyday lives. the schengen acquis is particularly important for us, the citizens of the new member states, who have suffered from decades of isolation. i am therefore pleased that in the near future another section of the schengen external borders in hungary may be dismantled in relation to another neighbouring member state, romania, and that citizens living on both sides of the border, including the one and a half million hungarians in transylvania, can freely participate in a europe without borders. under the preparation timetable for romania and bulgaria, these two eu member states could join the schengen area in the first half of 2011. so this is during the hungarian presidency. it is important that this schedule is implemented as planned, so that the mid-term evaluation milestones are also successful. the current - intermediate - assessment should remove all legal obstacles so that technical preparations for the integration of the two countries can begin in this area in the second half of the year. i support the rapporteur's assessment and conclusions, particularly that the european parliament and in particular the members of the libe committee should have access to the evaluation reports and relevant information before they deliver an informed opinion.
in writing. the accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen system next year could be a major success of the hungarian eu presidency, which takes office in january. the decision will increase security in the region and will ensure that millions more, including hungarians, will be able to travel freely across europe without border controls. i welcome the positive assessment of the readiness of the two member states in the final report of the schengen assessment working party, which was also taken into account by the inter-state council. as a result, bulgaria and romania are expected to be technically ready to join the schengen information system as of october 2010. following the final evaluation, scheduled for december, the two countries are expected to join the europe without frontiers from next spring. the delay resulting from the development of the schengen information system shall not adversely affect the accession of the countries awaiting integration. it is of particular importance for hungary that its neighbours, including members of the hungarian community across the border, enjoy the freedom to travel across the union without any border controls.
two years after the crisis, economic growth, albeit slow, has started. however, the situation remains extremely fragile. the enormous public deficits and the debt burden of the member states require a highly disciplined budgetary policy and austerity everywhere. there is no room for populist promises. we must maintain and even reduce the deficit everywhere. the challenge is to ensure that austerity does not leave the poor, the needy, in a hopeless situation. it is important to guarantee that no one in the future will follow the greek example. it is very good that mr barroso and mr olli rehn have also warned those who, by falsifying the real situation, have imagined a greek state bankruptcy and are playing with fire. it is therefore essential that member states' budgetary plans are subject to prior control by the commission. it's a pity that britain is not a partner in this. meaningful steps are also needed to establish genuine economic union. on the one hand, this means much more effective coordination of the economic policies of the member states. only community solutions can lead out of the union's crisis, national egoism, inward looking will only deepen the problems.
the g20 summit is expected to address global climate protection and, in this context, the carbon tax, alongside international financial regulation. the european commission itself is increasingly involved in the introduction of this tax in the eu, and the bp rig accident is giving further impetus to the debate on this issue. it is therefore worthwhile to lay down some principles. first, when it comes to the carbon tax, we should not forget that there are already market-based climate protection instruments, just think of the eu emissions trading system. any introduction of emission taxes is only possible in sectors that are not already part of the ets, which is increasingly covering a number of sectors. the aim is to avoid multiple taxation. second, a carbon tax cannot be a mere revenue-generating tool to help governments fill deficit budgets. its introduction should be supported only if it brings substantial environmental benefits and does not impose an undue burden on the population and on european industry. thirdly, the primary condition for the introduction of a carbon tax at community level is that other advanced industrial states follow suit. therefore, as with global financial regulation, the basic legal framework in this area needs to be established. the g20 summit may be a good opportunity to do so.
in writing. the eu-russia summit two weeks ago was less focused on energy security than previous summits. that's not to say that there haven't been some remarkable developments in the last few months. the merger of russian gas company gazprom and ukrainian gas company naftogaz has recently resurfaced. the president of ukraine offered to include representatives of the european union in future negotiations on the unification. however, as we have heard from the news, the european commission sees no reason to participate in the negotiations. we, unlike the european commission, believe that eu representatives should be present at the merger negotiations if invited. first of all, because gas imports, which account for one fifth of the total energy consumption, are delivered to the member states via naftogaz's networks. the merger of the two companies would thus have a fundamental impact on the functioning of the european energy market and thus on price competition. the merger of gazprom and naftogaz cannot be seen as the exclusive internal affair of two companies, since we know that the governments involved are also heavily involved in the negotiations prior to similar transactions. if that's what it's called, the eu should be at the table. if the union is not able to have a say in decisions affecting its own import volume, then the common energy policy is nothing more than useless, empty words.
in writing. – russia still sees the west as primarily responsible for the collapse of the soviet union and the chaos of the yeltsin years. however, russia faces a number of intractable problems, which ought to impel it towards the west, but moscow’s dislike of the eu persists. first, russia’s leaders have converted it into an energy-producing state, but, as energy resources are depleting, its economy is in serious trouble. the world financial crisis has led to a collapse of energy prices, resulting in a loss of revenue for russia. russia’s population is collapsing demographically; it can barely mobilise enough soldiers to defend the country. in the mostly muslim northern caucasus, russia is experiencing an upsurge of violence. this violence is being met by repression, which means the conflict will continue. china has begun to challenge russia in central asia, which moscow has long regarded as its own sphere of interest. finally, one area where russia continues to perform well is in intelligence operations, as witness the rapid restoration of russian power in ukraine this year. this is a signal for the west. russia will do what it can to enlarge its western security zone, regardless of the interests of the eu.
in writing. - members of the house! i would like to welcome the recent european parliament resolution on the europe 2020 strategy, which calls on the european council to develop a forward-looking and coherent strategy to achieve the objectives of the initiative and to seek the ep's opinion when defining the key parameters. this consultation should also involve national parliaments, local authorities and relevant non-governmental bodies. in order to meet the labour market and poverty reduction objectives set out in the second half of the european commission's related integrated guidelines, a strong focus should be placed on the social inclusion of the continent's most populous and poorest minority, the roma, given the continuously increasing proportion of roma in the active layer of the social security system and the considerable economic potential of the integration of the large unemployed population into the labour market. the strategy should set out a detailed and sustainable roadmap for the integrated guidelines, in particular for raising employment rates for the working age population to 75%, reducing the number of people below the national poverty line by 25% and reducing the age-group drop-out rate from schooling to below 10% and, in line with parliament's resolution, setting a target of 100% for secondary education. however, it is regrettable that the main objectives of the strategy do not include equality between women and men, which is one of the pillars of the programme of the spanish-belgian-hungarian presidency trio.
mr president, this latest crisis has to be seen as a symptom of the profoundly difficult relationship between israel and palestine. why has it been impossible to find a solution to the conflict between them? the easy answer is to blame one side or other as being more responsible. both sides profess that they do indeed want a peaceful outcome, but what actually takes place says something else. it is far from evident that a solution acceptable to all is still a part of the mindset of either israel or the palestinians. indeed they both perceive their interests as being best served by the conflict because they believe any solution would result in their ending up in a weaker position that what they have currently. from the israeli perspective, although formally there is support for a two-state solution, it is hard to see an israel that could live on equal terms with a palestinian state. such a state would pose an insurmountable security problem. from the palestinian perspective – that of hamas above all – peace would mean the end of its monopoly power in gaza, and having to share the state with fatah. hence we can see that the present troubled situation is the least bad option for all the involved parties. until they are given incentives to find an option that is superior to the present, the conflict will continue, tragically.
vice-president of the commission/high representative. − mr president, i am extremely pleased to have the opportunity to discuss human rights in this house. on many occasions, the house has stated its commitment to this subject. it is a commitment that i fully share. for the european union, human rights matter. they are at the core of our identity and they are at the heart of what we do around the world. our own history of entrenching human rights, democracy and the rule of law across 27 member states is a success story and acts as a source of inspiration to others. so it is logical that we have developed a strong set of mechanisms for promoting these values in different contexts – as the report on human rights and democracy in the world sets out. to give just one example, over the last 18 months we have provided eur 235 million in funding for 900 ngo projects in 100 countries. this work is extremely important and it must continue. but we are not the only actor and ours is not the only economic and political success story. therefore, as the world changes, we also need to make sure that we ask ourselves what we could do better. while human rights are universal, a ‘one size fits all’ approach does not work. that does not mean we should change the message on the importance of human rights, but there is room to be smarter in how we deliver it. we will make most progress if we approach the human rights agenda in a focused and realistic way. we need to target our efforts, tackling each case based on a detailed understanding of the country at hand. we also need a sharper focus on results. previous resolutions of this house have called for more information to better assess the effectiveness of our policies. i share your concern. we must judge our efforts by outcomes, even if our contributions to improving human rights situations are an investment over the long term. the work of the human rights subcommittee and its chair, mrs hautala, on human rights defenders is an extremely good example of this and i very much welcome the report and its findings and pay tribute to those who have worked so hard on it. let me address some specific aspects by making clear that i will continue to meet civil society actors and human rights defenders, both in brussels and abroad, as i have done in gaza, in china and, most recently, in brussels. i expect colleagues in delegations and here in brussels to do the same. a good example of being smart and well-organised has been our work on promoting the ratification of the rome statute in the run up to the kampala conference this year. we have worked with specific countries, offering eu support, at delegation and headquarters levels, working with member states and the eu presidency. to name just one success story, when i visited the seychelles last month, i discussed a range of issues on which they and the eu could strengthen our cooperation, with piracy as a top priority. i also raised the icc and encouraged the president, mr michel, to submit the ratification bill to parliament. upon my return to brussels, i was pleased to receive a letter confirming that the government has now launched this process. looking ahead, i want to see what more we can do to support the abolition of the death penalty worldwide. i want to assure this house that work on abolishing the death penalty is a personal priority for me. i will see to it that work advances, both bilaterally and in multilateral fora, beginning with the united nations in september. as this house knows, the promise of the lisbon treaty is a more coherent, more consistent and hence more effective eu foreign policy. this is also a chance for our work on human rights, democracy and the rule of law. these will run like a silver thread through everything that we do externally. the external action service, once in place, will give us the chance to realise our potential and strengthen our ability to speak with one voice. with its integrated structure, the new service should help to ensure that human rights issues are reflected in all areas of our external action, including csdp, development and trade. in this respect, let me refer to the oral question on trade in goods used for torture. the eu takes its commitment to the fight against torture very seriously. any shortcomings in the implementation of regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 must – and will – be addressed. in that spirit, we have invited amnesty international and the omega research foundation to present their findings to a meeting later this month of the regulatory committee with our member states. on human rights, as in other areas, we have to pull together. we need the continued commitment of member states, of this house and of the other eu institutions. we need to review the work we do regularly and to make sure that we get the best use of all available instruments – from human rights dialogues to eu guidelines, from the european instrument for democracy and human rights to our bilateral assistance and our actions in multilateral fora. revisiting our overall eu human rights strategy could be a useful exercise, and i intend to launch a consultation process to inform the development of a new human rights strategy this year. honourable members, dear friends, eleanor roosevelt used to say, ‘it is better to light a candle than curse the darkness’. this is valid for our human rights policy too. in the european union we have many tools to help make the world a better place. we need to mobilise and connect them better. that is what i want to do, maximising the potential of the new lisbon set-up and continuing to count on your vital support.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, as shadow rapporteur on behalf of the ppe group, and also as my group’s coordinator for the subcommittee on human rights, first of all i would like to thank ms hautala for her great work on this report. as the votes in the human rights subcommittee showed in april, the report enjoys great support across different groups, as the issue of protection of human rights remains of joint interest to us all. we reached good compromises, taking into account the different points of view. the eu has already worked out mechanisms and tools of great value so, as i have already emphasised in previous discussions, we have to make sure that we achieve better implementation of the existing guidelines, with the evaluation of existing policies developing more effective protection. finally, i strongly encourage member states to show stronger political will to support the action of human rights defenders, as the report highlights. with the lisbon treaty in place, it is important that the protection and security of human rights defenders be made a priority issue in the eu relationship with third countries and integrated at all levels of the union’s foreign policy, in order to increase the coherence, effectiveness and credibility of the eu’s support for human rights.
human rights defenders deserve special attention and, in addition to that, we need to help them in practice, so that they are not only respected and given attention when it is too late. i think it is important that parliament should give its opinion on this matter and i congratulate mrs hautala on her initiative and her excellent work. the report summarises in detail the steps that need to be taken, so i would just like to focus on what the union needs to do to be able to provide effective and very rapid assistance to human rights defenders in need. it is precisely efficiency and speed that in many cases are what they need most to protect their personal health or even their lives. supporting the work of human rights defenders is only one aspect of the protection of human rights, so it is important that human rights play an important role in the content of the structure of the european external action service and that the human rights mainstream in particular transfers this work, and this is what the lisbon treaty, as mrs ashton said, has made possible by the lisbon treaty. now it's your turn, it's up to you to create the practical conditions.
member of the commission. − madam president, let me start where this very useful debate has ended. i think we are united in our messages. the draft resolution has generated a debate which was about these united messages. i think it shows our joint commitment but it also underlines the seriousness of the situation we face in bosnia and herzegovina. i think it is clear from this debate – and i fully concur with this – that politicians, above all politicians in bosnia and herzegovina, have to resume the responsibilities that they have vis-à-vis the citizens and vis-à-vis the country. i also fully agree that the best way to prove it is through concrete progress. again, the case was made that visa liberalisation has shown that there is a way for the politicians in bosnia and herzegovina not only to agree on something, but actually to do a very good job in implementing a rather demanding road map leading us to the visa-free regime. i think we are also clear on what the short-term and the medium-term priorities are. regarding the short-term priorities, firstly there is definitely the compliance of the bosnia and herzegovina constitution with the european convention on human rights and the saa agreement; secondly, the adoption of the state-level census law; and, thirdly, the fulfilment of the outstanding benchmark for visa liberalisation. at the same time, i do not think we should just wait for the elections to bring certain results in october. we need to start thinking now about the medium term – a holistic, but at the same time comprehensive approach to bosnia and herzegovina. already now we should work on momentum on the window of opportunity, which should be presented by the results of the october elections. i think we need to encourage the politicians during the pre-election campaign to clearly state their vision of the future of bosnia herzegovina, their view of the european future and the european relationship and aspirations of that country. there will be many challenges after the elections, including further changes in constitutions, and we need to make sure that both of us – the politicians in bosnia and herzegovina and the eu – are ready for the greater part of the ownership to be assumed by the politicians in bosnia and herzegovina. i think it is time for these elections to end the dayton era and put us in a european era.
the following point is the commission statement on the eu-us air transport agreement [2010/2724 (rsp) ].
member of the commission. − mr president, sincere thanks to all the speakers for the comments they have made. despite the late hour there is very clearly considerable interest in many of the topics. it has been quite rightly mentioned that europe and the united states together represent close to 60% of global aviation traffic. therefore this agreement is very significant: not only for the citizens of europe and the united states but for all the passengers that take advantage of our carriers. in addition to the face-value significance for air transport, the unparalleled business links, strong demographic and cultural ties and geographic positioning mean that the us, for europe, is the most important strategic aviation partner. it is exactly the objective of this agreement to consolidate this strategic transatlantic partnership and to secure the gains from the first stage agreement guaranteeing a stable framework for future relations. a number of speakers pointed out the need to continue this process of engagement so we can make further advances. one of the achievements of the second stage agreement is indeed that it puts in place a process of engagement. i would like to immediately reply at this point that of course the commission would be keenly interested in sharing our own work in the joint committee with parliament, as we see a significant value in parliament’s engagement as we move forward. by opening up more opportunities for the industry and addressing some of the regulatory challenges it faces, the agreement will play a role in helping the european aviation industry emerge from the current period, which is characterised by profound economic and operational challenges. let me be very clear. the commission, like many of the speakers, agrees that the second stage agreement is not perfect. it is a very important step forward but it is not a perfect or conclusive step. like the speakers here, the commission would have liked to have seen an immediate and irrevocable change to the us law governing ownership and control of their airlines, but the reality is that this is not in the hands of the us administration, with whom we negotiate. it is a legislative reform that can only be delivered with the support of the us congress. this leads me to a very important message to this audience: that europe will have to use its influence to persuade the us congress of the merits of continuous reforms. in this respect in particular, the european parliament will have a key role to play, with the engagement and the opportunities parliament has with congress in relations with members of congress. i hope that we can count on you to advance the dialogue, the discussions and, most importantly, the legislative steps needed. on the issue that was pointed out by a couple of speakers on data protection: just for the record, this is not part of the air services agreement. it is a matter of justice and home affairs and obviously a matter that is of importance, and it will be taken up seriously in the context of discussions in that field. so let me stop here and thank the members again for their very useful and constructive comments.
i have received five motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 17 june 2010.
the following point is the commission statement on the implementation of the first railway package directives [2010/2556 ((rsp) ].
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the parliament again for this very useful engagement on an issue which is actually quite emotional from time to time, because we all want to see an integrated european railway system in our lifetime. hopefully we will all live long enough to do so. in the past i was engaged in the restructuring of railways in two countries that are now eu member states. i know how very difficult it is to move forward a system that has long traditions and an enormous amount of vested interests surrounding it. yet i think we all need to persevere because an integrated and highly efficient railway system is absolutely essential for the well-being of europeans and also for the competitiveness of our region. we, in the commission, take your comments very seriously and we will continue to work to move forward on the initiatives that require success in this area. i do not think it is a paper tiger if we judge by the number of infringement procedures. why has it taken so long? it has taken so long because there has been a process of engagement with member states. there was also an enlargement that brought new elements into the system and there has been an attempt by the commission to make this engagement meaningful – in other words to send serious questionnaires, to analyse the responses carefully and then to follow up with member states. so the result has legs, and bites! infringement procedures are not an objective in itself. what we are aiming at is a well-functioning railway market able to provide more numerous, safer, consumer-oriented services to our citizens and our undertakings. with this in mind, the recast of the first railway package will be designed to simplify and clarify the existing provisions with a view to facilitating their implementation, but also to modernise them. i would like to make two points in response to comments and questions put to us. one is on the level of safety. the data is categorical that the level of safety has actually increased since the market was opened but, since we are talking about people’s lives, even if we have one accident it is one too many, so obviously we need to strive to increase this level of safety. since in two comments a question was posed regarding the imposition of public service obligations, i would like to clarify that the first package is not an obstacle to that. these obligations are regulated under separate legislation and therefore pursuing them is a possibility. many members spoke about strategy and directions. i will share with the parliament our three main priorities – and they reflect many of the comments that have already been made. firstly, improving market access conditions and making them more transparent and non-discriminatory, secondly establishing a regulatory framework, fostering both public and private investments in the rail sector and, thirdly – something that many of you spoke about – reinforcing the regulatory supervision of the rail market to ensure fair competition between the operators and, ultimately, lower costs for those who use the service. the commission will engage the ministers in dialogue on these matters, in the permanent form of ministers of transport. the rail sector has been a focus of attention and we will make sure that it remains so and actually expands its presence on their agenda. we will soon adopt the recast proposal so it may be tabled in parliament by september and we look forward to a very fruitful cooperation with you on the forthcoming legislative process, and certainly to visible and tangible results within our lifetime.
i have received a motion for a resolution (see minutes), tabled in accordance with rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 17 june 2010. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following point is the commission statement on the central european floods, in particular in poland, the czech republic, slovakia and hungary [2010/2713 (rsp) ].
mr. vice president of capital my fellow members of the house of representatives! first of all, allow me to take this opportunity to congratulate mr. bigfoot on his election. it is a great joy for all hungarians, regardless of their political affiliation, that a hungarian brother from transylvania can hold this very important position in the european parliament. in recent weeks, devastating floods have hit large areas of central europe. it is especially tragic that this multi-country natural disaster has claimed human lives. in hungary, even today, there are parts of the settlements that are under water. in hungary, the situation is further complicated by the fact that in my country, the poorest counties have been the most affected by the floods. on behalf of jobbik, i would like to thank all those who participated in the flood control. i come from the county of borsod-abaúj-zemplén, so i had the opportunity to gain a lot of experience from the disaster. there are two important lessons in flood protection. one was that, apart from the fire department, the organization of the state agencies was pathetic. the positive experience is the unity of the civilians and the organization of the hungarian national guard. thanks to the hungarian national guard, no major trouble has occurred in hungary. i would like to express my special thanks to the guards on behalf of the whole european parliament, here in strasbourg. the european union must provide assistance as quickly as possible, but with a view to monitoring the use of funds. the commission is concerned that there will be those who will unlawfully use the funds from the solidarity fund. we should not support the majority of people of roma origin who did not participate in the flood protection but left their homes in the hope of receiving various forms of aid and being able to move into new houses for free during the reconstruction. the movement for a better hungary has so far distributed about 10 million forints of donations to the needy, ensuring that we do not leave people alone. you can count on jobbik to continue.
now, the line of registered speakers. i would like to express my sympathy to the victims, both hungarian and roma, and i would like to invite mr tamás deutsch, the first representative of the victims, to speak.
mr. president, and madam commissioner. allow me, my fellow members, to be the first to dispense with the subject. if someone had told me 20 years ago that bishop lászló tőzső would be speaking to tomás deutsch, mep, as vice-president of the european parliament, i would have listened with disbelief, but fate and the ways of the creator are unfathomable. i am grateful to be able to work with mr president here in the european parliament. i welcome you, and the vice-president of the european parliament, a man who, alongside jerzy buzek, embodies two very important european values: action against dictatorships that undermine the dignity of the individual and loyalty to common european christian values. my fellow members of the house of representatives! let me personally express my sympathy to the victims and survivors of the floods in central europe and, of course, to the victims of the disasters in france. but it's also about the tone of the thank you. thank you to all those who have personally taken part in the flood protection and thank you to our fellow europeans who have already mobilized their personal financial resources and volunteered to help with the protection and help with the recovery. due to a special situation, thanks is of course an inaccurate expression, a special situation is the cause of the floods in hungary, since in hungary rivers and smaller streams have emerged from their sources to a significant extent, which previously did not cause such disasters. this also underlines the fact that traditional flood control measures are no longer sufficient. i would like to express my appreciation for the european commission's swift and effective action in defence of the european institutions and i would like to express my hope that, like the european parliament, the european commission will decide swiftly and effectively on the necessary financial assistance to assist in the recovery.
hungary is one of the countries severely affected by floods. first of all, i would like to thank you for your solidarity and help so far, and to tell you that in hungary, the poorest areas and poor families were hit the hardest by the floods and the flooding. many of them are roma families. they are the ones who live in the least safe and worst-situated parts of the settlements, the ones most exposed to flooding. so it's very important that we show them special solidarity. several suggestions were made on how to get help there quickly. i have a few suggestions in that regard. on the one hand, member states should decide on the expansion of the solidarity fund and on a more rapid and flexible use of its resources. the council has been considering an amendment to the proposal for a long time, and it would be very important at this stage. the spanish presidency could help us in this. it would also be good if community funds could be channelled to this end and if agricultural policy funds could be used to compensate farmers who suffer serious damage.
i thank the commission for its statement, which i agree with. allow me to add a few things. in hungary, we can speak of the biggest flood of the last century. a lot of houses collapsed, hundreds of houses collapsed. more than 4,000 people had to be evacuated. many people are still homeless. the static condition of the buildings standing still is questionable. they're currently doing damage control, cleaning, disinfection. vaccinations are given to reduce the risk of infection. in order to save lives, vast areas of agricultural land have been flooded, the magnitude of the damage being incalculable. i am very pleased about the new program of the european union, the program that allows for the prediction of disasters. at the same time, i would like to draw the attention of the commissioner to the fact that disasters are becoming more frequent and that it is therefore urgent to speed up disaster response. there is a lot of unity in hungary, but it is necessary to have unity at the european level in order to express one of the most important principles of the european union, solidarity, and one of the forms of this is the opening of the solidarity fund.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank all who have spoken this evening. i will be travelling to poland next week, and many of your comments give me a much deeper understanding of what i will be looking for. let me take first the issue that has been put brought up most frequently by all speakers. this is the ability of the commission not only to mobilise emergency assistance and deploy teams when we are fighting a disaster, but also to alleviate the pain and suffering of people, post-disaster, by providing access to the solidarity fund. i would like to make two points on this. first, what do we have today? many of the speakers have clearly been engaged and interested in how the solidarity fund operates, so let me just recap what people have said so far. there is a threshold of 0.6% of gdp or at least eur 3 billion in damages. just by way of illustration, for poland this is a damages threshold of eur 2.1 billion; for hungary it is eur 591 million; for the slovak republic, eur 378 million. only after that threshold has been passed is there access to the fund. the submission has to be made 10 weeks after the disaster and then, on the basis of the submission, the solidarity fund is triggered. as many of you have probably noticed in the past, sometimes the response period – the time it takes for money to reach the beneficiaries – while intended to be shorter, can sometimes stretch into the future. so that is the reality today. my second point is that the commission has made a proposal to the council which was also strongly supported – even before these very serious floods – by parliament. the proposal aims precisely to increase flexibility, accelerate speed, and allow local circumstances to be better factored into the response. however, this proposal has been stuck in the council, mostly because of financial considerations in the context of the crisis. in the commission we are very hopeful that the floods will flush it through, and our intention is to take into account the experience of the floods and improve the proposal further. i would certainly be very grateful to parliament for your support. we will echo the words we have heard this evening on what you would like to see by way of solidarity. so a friend in need can be a friend indeed. we believe that is really essential and we are very much in favour of pursuing it. we will, given the circumstances and given the messages we have heard this evening, do everything possible within the current parameters of the solidarity fund to pursue the delivery of assistance as expeditiously as we can. the fund is not my area of responsibility but i will work with commissioner hahn who, like me, is very keen to see the fund being flexible and agile so that we can deliver now but also deliver better in the future. secondly, comments were made – in addition to the solidarity fund – on being able to tap into the structural funds and the cohesion fund. yes, indeed the eu financial instruments can cofinance a wide range of risk management measures. they can cofinance many of the things people talked about – such as reconstruction of river beds, afforestation, allowing a natural flow of water to return, planning, and multi-country studies. just as an illustration of what kind of funding is currently available: for poland eur 700 million are available and for the slovak republic, eur 120 million. obviously it is very important to look into current allocation and opportunities to use these funds in a flexible manner to provide relief to those who are affected. thirdly, there has been quite an important discussion on the floods directive. it is regrettable to say that some countries that are most severely hit by the floods have not transposed it yet. there are infringement procedures open, including against poland, and i do hope that what has happened is a wake-up call so that we will see member states moving very prudently on the implementation of the floods directive. dates have been mentioned of 2011, 2013 and 2015, where very critical deadlines have to be met. i have heard a number of speakers raise the issue of prevention, which is really much better than cure. in our communication which will appear at the end of this year we will be taking this comprehensive approach of combining prevention measures with response and feedback mechanisms through rehabilitation. without this kind of approach i think we will be sitting in this room in the future discussing the same issues the same way we are doing tonight. that takes me to the much broader issue, namely adaptation to climate variability and climate change. climate change is here to stay. honourable members have talked about mosquitoes returning. this sounds like an impossibility. were they not supposed to be gone? well, with climate change we may see the return of malaria even to the european continent. of course the only way to cope is to very prudently assess what the trends are and what we can do to be best prepared for those trends. climate systems are not linear. in other words we have to be prepared for a wide variety of scenarios and this is what in my team we would like to bring forward so that our action can be as effective as possible. let me raise one more point, on insurance schemes. regions of the world that have been at risk of climate variability for longer than us in europe – especially latin america and the caribbean – have invented insurance schemes for risk mitigation that i believe are of interest to our region. as we think of advances in the financial industry in europe, i think it is important to encourage innovation that would allow us to package risk better, reduce it and provide more assurances to those who suffer from disasters. today we are talking about floods. i would not be at all surprised if later in the summer we were talking about forest fires. all those risks require us to think in a way that collectively reduces the burden of risk on those that are most exposed. in the next months i will certainly come to parliament as we evolve our thinking on how we can best prepare and equip europe to respond to disasters. i will be sure to come to parliament often because what i have heard this evening – which incidentally relates to my country, romania and bulgaria are not entirely off the hook, with the danube river being higher than it normally is at this time of the year – is a tremendous level of concern that has to translate into reciprocity of an equally high level of action. may i just conclude, since many of the speakers have turned to you, mr president, by congratulating you on your election, and say that i am very honoured to be the first commissioner to stand in front of you in your new capacity.
i have received six motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 17 june 2010. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. last year, during the debate on the copenhagen climate conference, it was often predicted that one of the inevitable consequences of climate change would be more extreme weather events. we didn't have to wait long for all the things we've been talking about to become a near reality. countries in central europe have been hit by unprecedented flooding in recent weeks. hungary has not experienced such extensive, heavy rainfall in its history, with rainfall equivalent to twice or even three times the monthly average in four days. the problem is compounded by the fact that the huge masses of water have not been coming from the major rivers but from small and medium-sized streams that were previously considered gentle, and that have not been properly dammed in recent years. the enormous damage caused by the floods and the desperate struggle of local citizens warn decision-makers that all the water conservation investments needed to prevent similar disasters must be implemented urgently. "it's in the bathroom that you meet your friend", says an old saying. a union built on solidarity between the peoples of europe is fulfilling the dream of its founding fathers by helping those in need in such difficult situations. i therefore propose that the commission examine the possibility of using appropriate financial means to speed up the construction of flood reservoirs and other water conservation facilities in these countries.
in writing. the recent floods in central and eastern europe have also shown that in many cases people suffered not from a lack of people but mainly from a lack of a central and unified logistics system and service. it should be recognised that the protocols established so far in the field of civil protection and disaster management are neither sufficient nor adequate. a security system guaranteeing the safety of citizens' lives and property must be able to handle both modern information communication tools and services. access to information for people with disabilities in the event of a disaster is still limited, as was the case with the icelandic volcanic eruption and the subsequent air traffic chaos. this requires a change of attitude. it is essential that all media provide accessible, unobstructed (with captions, clearly visible visual information) information and assistance to people in a disaster situation, and mobile operators should also cooperate to provide information to subscribers on request and tailored to their needs, as free and as urgent as possible. to achieve this, the european commission needs to work with national governments on a determined initiative to further develop the standard protocols.
the next item is the debate on the question for an oral answer on judicial training, tabled by mr klaus-heiner lehne on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights (o-0063/2010 - b7-0306/2010).
member of the commission. − the points that have been made here very much align with the intention of the commission to pursue, as much as possible, networking that would allow the profession to thrive on the skills and capabilities of the best and the brightest within it, but also to provide the platform for training at national, regional and european level in the engagement of active networks such as the academy of european law, the european judicial training network and the european institute of public administration. secondly, there was a very important point made on focusing on the future. this is something that the commission very much agrees with. the question is how to implement it, as the training programmes evolve in 2011, but also with the new communication being put in place for the next financial perspective. thirdly, if i could just make one very specific point. it is my pleasure to inform parliament that an eu justice portal will be launched on 16 july, because we should not wait until we have the new communication. we should use the means available to us. after all, it is about better implementation of european law, but it is also about increasing the trust of citizens in the law so they can actually rely on the collective advancements that in the end have to benefit them, our citizens. so let me stop here. mr president, this is your first time in the chair in your new position. you are doing extremely well. we started exactly five minutes after nine and we seem to be able to finish five minutes before the end of the session, before 12. congratulations, and i wish you in your future chairmanship to be as organised as you have been tonight.
a motion for a resolution were forwarded to me in accordance with article 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 17 june 2010.
i would like to welcome the introduction of intelligent transport systems, because it will make people's lives much easier. i want to draw your attention to three things. one of the things that was also visible in the passenger rights was that the european parliament has a strong commitment to people with disabilities, but i would like to draw attention to the fact that in this system, too, people with disabilities have to be taken into account and i would suggest that when implementing the system and the system developers keep taking into account the problems of people with disabilities, the accessibility of information is very important. finally, i would like to point out that some member states have not yet carried out a feasibility study on the cost of introducing this system, and i would therefore ask the commission to provide specific resources for this purpose before the system is introduced, so that it can be opened up to the countries of central and eastern europe.
i'd like to congratulate you on your report. i think it gives you an accurate picture of 2009, which was not an easy year. about two thirds of the committee members were replaced, while the number of petitions increased - if only slightly. it was also exciting in the sense that the european union was trying to reduce the democratic deficit by adopting the treaty of lisbon, by coming into force. the committee on petitions does not participate in the legislative process and is therefore considered by many to be less important than other committees, but it plays a key role in reducing the democratic deficit, in that it creates a link between citizens and the eu institutions. an important feedback for us is that there was a slight increase in the number of petitions submitted, but not a significant decrease in the number of inadmissible petitions. the information system needs to be improved so that citizens know exactly when to petition the committee. i think it's also important for all of us to have feedback on what areas petitions touch. these are either where eu legislation is not sufficiently transposed or not sufficiently well implemented, or where citizens would like to see more eu competence: environmental protection, human rights. there are more and more petitions, about freedom of movement, about justice, about the internal market, i think they're all very important. i would also like to stress that the commission very much needs to be able to work with the european commission, especially with commissioner sefcovic, without whose help we can be much less effective. it's important to make decisions very quickly on certain issues where irreparable damage can happen if we're not quick enough. the time factor is very important anyway and the commission's cooperation is for this reason. another thing i would like to mention is that we cannot process petitions in all languages at the same speed. small languages are not really represented in the administration of the committee. it's important to fix this and speed it up.
one of the central aspirations of anti-democratic, authoritarian governments is to restrict media freedom. however, it is of particular concern that the independence of the media is seriously threatened in several eu countries. does the european commission, the council and the parliament see any breach of eu standards or the copenhagen criteria? does the union recognise that the independence of the public media is being restricted in several member states? they are put under direct political control and put under pressure by withdrawing financial support. it is increasingly common for information in the media to be restricted by the ruling parties for political reasons. it is therefore essential that we support the report by our colleague ivo belet that the european union, the european audiovisual observatory, does monitor whether the member states respect the independence of the media. i propose that the mandate of the european ombudsman be supplemented by an inquiry into the independence of the media. we must protect the freedom of the press, the foundation of the rule of law in europe!
i congratulate mr fernandes as rapporteur for the 2007 report on biogas. the natural corollary of agriculture and forestry is biowaste training. in this respect, the rapporteur is at odds with the commission, as manure is an organic component of livestock farming. it would be very important, and i ask mr sefcovic, that what parliament asked for in 2007 be confirmed, namely that the commission should allocate resources to biogas production. and at least as important is what mr kalinowski has already mentioned, namely composting, and mr fernandes' report calls for the european commission to support the composting of biowaste, since this is an extremely important endeavour from an environmental and agricultural point of view - as has already been said - and also because the new member states are facing particular difficulties with both biogas and composting. take account of the specificities of the new member states.
i congratulate mr olejniczak on his report, because the baltic strategy was the first macro-region in the european union. for those of us who want to create a danube macro-region, the experience of the baltic region has many lessons to teach us. one of the lessons is that we should not set too many priorities, we should agree on the two or three main objectives that bind the danube countries. like the baltic strategy, this is transport, making the danube navigable, the other such thing is environmental protection, preserving the purity of the danube, its biodiversity, and the third is tourism. i believe that this will be a top priority for the hungarian presidency in 2011, and i am very pleased that the commission is represented by the slovak commissioner, mr sefcovic, vice-president of the commission. we hope that the danube strategy will not take five years to be implemented, as the baltic region is a good example for us.
mr president, although the eu got its new legal framework by the end of 2009, it was the task of the spanish presidency to make europe move and to make the framework work. the spanish presidency delivered what was expected concerning the most important institutional issues. we did not agree on everything but we began to fill the lisbon framework with life and concrete details. next to these seemingly technical issues, the presidential programme of our spanish friends did not lack policy ambitions. they established themselves as models for working towards gender equality and the promotion of women’s rights. huge thanks go to this presidency, especially to mr lópez garrido and his team, for making this often neglected issue a core one during the last six months. we have not yet managed to finalise the european protection order but i am hopeful that we will do so under the belgian presidency. the spanish also met high expectations on democratic rights. this is clearly reflected in their diligent effort on making the european citizens’ initiative operational as soon as possible. as thanks for this, the rapporteurs, alain lamassoure and myself, have already prepared a working document in the committee on constitutional affairs on the eci. muchas gracias, una vez más, por la tarea que ha llevado a cabo y espero seguir trabajando para la realización de los objetivos que usted ha establecido. ¡flores para usted!
i would like to congratulate prime minister zapatero and the spanish presidency for having been able to pay full attention to europe in the face of a very difficult domestic political and economic situation. i also thank you, on behalf of the spanish-belgian-hungarian presidency trio, for the fact that the treaty of lisbon has been put into effect, the treaty of lisbon is working. the economic governance has been initiated, which will remain with the belgian presidency, but i fear that the hungarian presidency will also have to do something about it. they also started the regulation of the financial markets, the speculative international financial transactions. this will be a task for the belgian presidency, but also for the hungarian presidency. finally, i would like to thank you for the intensive discussions on the common agricultural policy. this year the commission paper is coming out and the hungarian presidency is going to have a tough debate and i thank the spanish presidency for coming to the hungarian academy of agriculture to present the common agricultural policy to 500 hungarian farmers.
very short. the deal is not ideal and it's not perfect, but i think it's the best possible deal that could have been made in the time that we've had. it is balanced in that it takes into account both security and the rights and freedoms of european citizens, as well as their data protection rights. it's important that we pass it now in july because it will be a guarantee of security, and it's also important from a data protection point of view that we don't have uncontrolled data flows going forward. the text includes additional guarantees, partly on the justification for the release of the data, partly on the justification for the highlighting of the data. the appeal will be transparent from now on. there were, of course, questions, and several of them were raised: the justification of europol and the length of the storage period. what is even more important than the content is that we have a clear timetable for the establishment of a european tftp, and we will receive a proposal for this within a year, and that the relationship between the council, the commission and parliament will be new after that.
madam president, we should not be complacent about our work in this area and should not look down on the united states. actually, on the one hand, the us is much closer to making comprehensive new legislation on financial sector regulation and supervision. they are also concentrating more on substance than on a turf war. the new legislation, which is before the us congress, envisages a consumer bureau with substantive powers to give rulings, including a total ban on specific financial products. standardised derivatives will be traded on established exchanges and forced through clearing-houses. hedge funds and private equity firms will have to register with the scc over and above a certain, very large capital limit. we are discussing how to distribute the powers between european institutions and national institutions. well, the solution is quite easy. the macroprudential institutions, like the ecsrb, should be closely linked with the european central bank, a european institution, but microprudential institutions need to be coordinated among national institutions.
the crisis has taught us all a hard lesson. we cannot allow financial institutions to engage in uncontrolled, speculative activities, endangering the safety of millions of jobs. the new supervisory institutions serve this purpose. i am very pleased that the compromise proposals to the council have included amendments which are important for the countries of central and eastern europe. for example, we have agreed to allow the governors of non-euro area central banks to participate in the governing bodies of the esrb and to apply the simple majority decision-making procedure to settle disputes between supervisors. the new supervisory institutions should be in place by 1 january 2011 at the beginning of the hungarian presidency. i believe that in order to achieve a compromise, both the council and the european parliament should make concessions wherever it is technically appropriate and justified. the council could thus allow the new authorities to have a single seat in frankfurt, to be subject to the european supervisory authorities for cross-border financial institutions or to operate independently of the commission. the ep could make concessions. you guys! i think it would be enough if instead of creating technical standards we were to deal only with strategic directions and finally the right to declare an economic emergency, that would be the responsibility of ecofin. i hope that along these lines a compromise can be found, and that we can reach a compromise by september at the latest, and that the institutions will indeed be in place by 1 january.
the report on food products entering the union from outside the european union has unfortunately not brought the most important breakthrough for farmers. this breakthrough and the requirement of fair competition, fair trade, would have been that only food products that come into the european union whose producers have to meet the same strict requirements as european farmers, such as hungarian farmers, we know about the very strict requirements of cross compliance. we should also require that food from outside the european union to europe be allowed only if it meets the same animal welfare, food safety, environmental, social and other criteria. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. that's very welcome. the report also emphasises the importance of food safety and consumer protection as a principle, as opposed to the almost unconditional free trade that has been practiced in the past. i ask you to take account of the very difficult situation farmers are in at the moment and to create conditions for fair competition for european farmers.
in writing. belgium took over the presidency of the eu council from spain at a difficult time. the european union is facing a series of major decisions, and the country holding the rotating presidency is preparing for a change of government. however, the executive cabinet can safely build on a reliable and proven cadre of civil servants and diplomats who have been consistently preparing for the presidency for years, and who draw on the experience accumulated during the country's dozens of consecutive presidencies. i consider it exemplary that, despite the many debates that divide the belgian language communities and political forces, the programme of the eu presidency is surrounded by national consensus. as a member of the presidency trio, belgium will act in the spirit of the joint spanish-belgian-hungarian programme and i trust that it will successfully fulfil its commitments. i welcome the fact that the president-in-office is embarking on a strong social programme for the next six months and that he intends to keep the social impact of the crisis under constant review and will keep it on the council's agenda. i support your plans for a conference on the rights of persons with disabilities and your efforts to promote european adoption of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. he is waiting for belgium to draw the balance of the european year against poverty and exclusion. i hope that in the six months ahead the enlargement process will gain momentum, croatia will be closer to the conclusion of accession negotiations and the countries of the western balkans will also receive positive messages.
in writing. – we still are in an era of financial turmoil, requiring new and coordinated solutions; furthermore, continuing the advancement of the implementation of the lisbon treaty is still a task ahead. i am looking forward to working with the belgian presidency among such difficult circumstances. for one, on institutional issues, such as the creation of the european external action service, or the european citizens’ initiative, for which i am co-rapporteur in the european parliament. i hope that we will be able to elaborate a regulation that makes this tool of direct democracy accessible, easy to use and safe against abuse , giving an opportunity for european citizens who want to participate in european decision making. moreover, i am delighted to see that the belgian presidency has ideas concerning gender equality as well, as the presidency programme mentions most of the themes that the spanish presidency tried to advance. however, i would have been even more delighted if the belgian presidency had been more ambitious, or if it had only named expressis verbis the european protection order in its programme. i consider this piece of legislation highly important, naturally besides the new gender equality strategy and the women’s rights charter.
in writing. the second half of the 18-month spanish-belgian-hungarian trio is of particular importance for hungary. as a member of the trio and as the next presidency, we are ready to continue our close cooperation to date in order to promote the creation of a union that is closer to its citizens and their concerns, and able to respond swiftly and decisively to challenges. let me highlight just a few of these familiar semester tasks. i think it is important that the review of the eu budget is completed this year so that the debate on the next multiannual financial framework can begin under the hungarian presidency. secondly, the discussion on the financial supervision reform package must be closed. it would be a serious loss of face for all of us if the supervisory institutions were not in place on 1 january. thirdly, it is in the union's interest to conclude accession negotiations with croatia this year. i am convinced that if we have the political will, we can achieve this goal. this is also necessary to preserve the credibility of the enlargement process. finally, the preparations for romania and bulgaria to join the schengen area are at an end. free movement within the union is one of the most tangible achievements of the common europe for its citizens, so let us help it to become a reality in every way possible. i am confident that under the belgian presidency we will make substantial progress in all these areas.
in writing. an extraordinary council meeting will be held during the hungarian presidency in 2011, with energy policy issues primarily on the agenda. the belgian presidency should take decisive steps to strengthen the common energy policy before then. the step-by-step is perhaps the biggest investment. the strategic review presented earlier by the european commission has correctly identified the main development priorities. the negotiations on infrastructure should therefore continue to focus on the generation of financial resources. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. the new long-term budget should give a stronger role to basic energy infrastructure developments through the reform of the ten-e programmes. another important area of action is to position new technologies that affect energy supply. only through legal harmonisation at community level can decentralised energy production and renewables be given the necessary impetus. we have high hopes for the commission's proposal which would provide a new legal framework for smart energy networks facilitating bilateral communication. as this is a new regulatory area, political negotiations should start under the belgian presidency. in addition to looking ahead, the belgian presidency should monitor how the large body of legislation already adopted is implemented by the member states. the implementation of the third energy package, or the final version of the gas regulation, which will be adopted in the coming weeks, should not be delayed.
in writing. it is welcome that the belgian presidency is paying close attention to improving the situation of people with disabilities, with particular attention to monitoring the signing and ratification of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities in the member states. however, in my view, the council decision of 26 november last year already establishes the legal basis for the application of the un convention to the european institutions, including the european council, and thus for the belgian presidency to use the provisions of the convention as a reference point. given the significant differences in the initial and ratification processes in the various member states, i am firmly of the view that this should not cause the eu institutions to be uncertain about the de facto effects of the convention: there is no need for individual ratification by the member states at eu level, as the european council, with the representatives of the member states and a decision of the european parliament in support, has already taken a decision in this direction. despite the fact that my specific question on this subject two months ago - despite the very good working relationship with my spanish colleagues - has still not been answered, i have asked the committee responsible to put the question on the agenda. i hope that we will get an answer to this question under the belgian presidency. in conclusion, we wish our belgian colleagues good work and success.
madam president, being a human rights lawyer, i follow the accession process of iceland from the perspective of human rights – and, i must say, with great worry. i have just one minute to speak on the issue of human rights – mainly of course of those who challenge, question or protest against the accession – and would like to remind icelandic citizens of two important things. one is that you have a fundamental human right under modern human rights law to be informed correctly, precisely and accurately about public affairs – not just the positive sides but also the negative sides of accession. moreover, those of you who want to mobilise against accession have just the same right to freedom of speech, freedom of expression, and freedom of assembly as those who mobilise for the accession. you have just the same rights to public financial resources without discrimination, and access to public media, public television and so on. claim your rights before it is too late.
in writing. one of the most urgent tasks of the transposition of the lisbon treaty is the creation of a new, unified european union external action service (eeas). a strong and well-functioning foreign service requires careful and far-sighted preparation, cost-effective establishment and predictable and transparent operation. these conditions can be met if the creation of the new organisation is based on close teamwork between the european commission, the council and parliament and its competent committees, and on coordination of all the relevant details. one of the basic prerequisites for the establishment and operation of the eeas is to define the budget required by the new body and where and under what conditions it will receive the necessary funds. the new organisation will be effective if it has a clear and simple organisational structure, clear operating rules and human resource management issues. the eeas staff will be drawn from three sources: the eu institutions, the member states and, where appropriate, the host country. full equality between staff from the eu institutions and staff from the member states is needed during their service. it is equally important that the selection principle and practice in all three groups be based on transparent and uniform processes and requirements. it is also important that the disciplinary procedure be consistent with the practice of the european institutions, and this is ensured by the fact that there is no separate body dealing with the cases that fall within this area.
the next item is the joint debate on:– the commission statement on kosovo, and– the commission statement on albania.
my fellow members of the house of representatives! as a member of the hungarian european parliament, i feel it is my duty to speak out on behalf of the hungarians in vojvodina and to draw not only the attention of the parties in the hungarian parliament, but also your attention to the fact that the rights of the relative hungarian majority living in vojvodina are unfortunately being seriously violated every day. the physical atrocities committed against them have become almost daily, and they dare not even file a complaint, fearing a repeat of the case of the temerin boys. they are restricted in their use of the language, and there is no hungarian administration in public offices. currently, the serbian authorities are organizing against the united hungarian youth camp, which has been regularly held for several years, and are trying to ban it. the situation threatens the complete extinction of the hungarian national feeling, the hungarian people. in order to solve this serious problem, the need to establish broad territorial autonomy in the region of bansko is indisputable.
mr president, i think the report on kosovo is very good but what i want to talk about is that the broad thrust of european policy towards the western balkans has long been the establishment of democracy and the promotion of stability. there are cases where the two do not coincide, where stability is actually the enemy of democracy because the status quo, though oppressive, guarantees stability in the short-term. for a long time this was the case with yugoslavia in general, and kosovo in particular. there was a general assumption that, even while yugoslavia was far from being a democracy, it was best to overlook the flaws because the alternatives were worse. with kosovo the opposite proved to be true. the treatment of the albanian population by the serbian authorities became intolerable, and an uprising followed. the outcome was limited western intervention, then the reluctant acceptance of the proposition that the people of kosovo would never again accept rule by belgrade. if serbia were to reassert its power over kosovo the result would be more stability, and independent status followed. but that can only be a first step. serbia has still to accept the loss of territory, which is painful. kosovo has itself begun the process of constructing democracy, but this will take time to mature, which is hardly surprising given the traumatic experience of its population, but neither democracy nor stability is helped by the refusal to recognise the independence of kosovo. recognition has to be the way forward.
president van rompuy recently made a tour of the western balkans. he also recognised that the integration of the countries of the western balkans was key to the future of the region. when he met with president boris tadic, he missed the slowdown in the integration process. now, if this is so important and if the process has really slowed down, then the countries concerned, kosovo, albania, have to do what they can to speed up the process, and they have to do what they can to make peace with serbia, to negotiate, to have a dialogue, to help speed up the integration. and europe should not have to double-check. the visa must be introduced in a sequential manner in all other countries.
madam president, the catastrophe at the deepwater horizon platform will remain probably as one of the biggest catastrophes in the 21st century in the history books of the world. it is about safety, security and prevention, and safety, security and prevention have a human face; all the industrial applications we use in any sector are human-designed, human-built and human-managed. therefore we have to make sure that industries throughout the sector and beyond the oil sector get the skills and knowledge they need to manage any consequences of any minor or bigger catastrophe in the future. i think we have to learn a lesson to continue to face the long-term challenge of the post-oil age by diversifying our resources and technologies. for us it must be crucial to rethink and support our strategic energy technology plan, including the deep sea technologies that were mentioned by mrs damanaki. finally colleagues, i have to say that this catastrophe, although it is not a natural catastrophe, has to be about solidarity and support. first, in order to re-establish nature, but then there needs to be solidarity and support for the employees of the company because the employees of the companies are victims – working elsewhere in the company. we have to go and ask for solidarity for the sector, within the sector, because we have seen that none of the sector’s players could solve the problem and we have to seek for solidarity within europe because bp is a european company; working people are there, european employees, and they have to have our solidarity to keep their working places for the future.
i would like to thank mrs ashton, the president and the members of the house. over the past year, here in the european parliament, i have often felt that perhaps we are not talking enough about events outside the european union. well, this kyrgyz event, it's totally different. the ethnic genocide, the trend of displacing hundreds of thousands of people, which has been demonstrated in kyrgyzstan, is a problem that no civilized country can ignore, and this is particularly true of the european union. but in order to solve these problems, we must first see the causes, and here i see four main reasons, as a jobbik representative. the first and foremost reason that causes problems for stalin is the unjust principle of divide and rule, which draws borders in a way that does not coincide with ethnic borders, assuming that ethnic conflicts will occur. the other is that valuable territories are not rationally divided among states, so again, unjustly drawn borders are a potential source of conflict. the third, which has not been heard, unfortunately, is the radicalized extremist tendencies of islam, which are most characteristic of the fergana valley, and which can also be called the cause of various problems. and here it is very important, the water issue in kyrgyzstan, about 90% of uzbekistan's cotton exports, and to know exactly that if kyrgyzstan quasi-closes the taps, the economy of uzbekistan will be destroyed in a few months. and most importantly, we need to say that we need to address these problems immediately, because, my fellow congressmen, we are facing more genocide if we don't take these steps. and we have to do that, because this is the central asian, inner asian region, and we know very well that not only kyrgyzstan, but also uzbekistan and tajikistan are considered to be unstable areas. to avoid these conflicts, we must first guarantee a fair distribution of water. and secondly, we have to somehow make it easy to cross borders between these countries, to avoid ethnic problems, ethnic tensions. we have to fight for some kind of regional cooperation to be established in these states -- and i mean uzbekistan, tajikistan and kyrgyzstan -- so regional cooperation to make them interested in living peacefully with each other. we must establish a system of mutual trust, and the european union has a particularly important role to play in this, because i am quite sure that the european parliament, the european union, must play the role of mediator.
in writing. europe needs a strong and common agricultural policy beyond 2013. to do this, the eu's agricultural budget must be maintained at least at its current level. europe has a special responsibility to guarantee the world's food security. europe can produce the safest food possible, while maintaining the highest environmental standards. the cap's main task is therefore to preserve the agricultural production potential of europe. the amount of direct payments shall not be reduced as a result. in the case of rural development aid under the second pillar, it should be ensured that it is primarily intended for agricultural purposes. farmers should be protected against the extreme fluctuations in farm purchase prices observed in recent years. market-regulatory instruments and supply-containment measures in certain sectors, such as milk and wine, are needed to reduce losses to farmers caused by price fluctuations. european food trade is much more concentrated than food processors and farmers. a large supermarket chain is often confronted by hundreds of farmers who have a much worse bargaining position. therefore, closer cooperation between farmers should be promoted. however, this requires an exemption from the strict european competition rules in the field of agriculture. imports from third countries should be subject to the same strict environmental, food safety, animal welfare, etc. requirements as those applied to european producers.
in writing. a bold, in-depth reform of the cap is needed to take better account of the specific situation of the new member states. the cap can only be justified for european taxpayers and defended in the treasury if we can demonstrate that agriculture produces social and environmental public goods for society as a whole, in addition to food security in europe. only a substantial reform can save the cap! the agricultural developments in the new member states should be supported by preferential allowances, otherwise two (or in the case of romania and bulgaria) three-speed european agriculture could emerge. this would further deepen the gap between the eu15 and the 12 new member states. new investments will be needed, particularly in the new member states, to achieve a european green agriculture and the production of environmental public goods. instead of punishing them, farmers should be given financial incentives to purchase environmentally friendly machinery for soil-friendly farming, to exchange the genetic stock of cultivated varieties, to invest in environmental protection and to protect the cleanliness of the water supply.
officer, please! there's a hungarian saying that the longer you explain, the more likely you are to be lying. you're not telling the truth! the only honest commissioner in the european commission, mr dacian colos, said that it was either the wto or mercosur, or we would destroy european agriculture. this is reality, mr. de gucht. as for you, the spanish presidency and the commission have violated the treaty of lisbon by omitting the european parliament! mr gaspari may say that afet gave the mandate, but the mandate was not given to the european parliament, which is why i asked the question. i would also point out that the new member states are the ones who are going to lose out. we are in favour of liberalisation, but if spain or portugal have their own interests, they should leave the european union out of it, they should deal with it themselves and not have to give it an eu framework.
the european commission established the negotiating mandates 11 years ago. 11 years ago, the world changed, environmental protection, climate protection became important, and the european union changed, from 15 to 27 member states. the european commission has not taken these changes into account. he didn't ask for a new mandate. the european commission has made a serious mistake. the mandates of 11 years ago cannot be negotiated, they must be stopped. a new mandate should be developed that takes into account the perspectives of the 12 newest member states, takes into account the climate protection aspects, takes into account the global environmental protection and animal welfare aspects. a bad mandate can only lead to unacceptable agreements.
we are facing a european problem that has been unresolved for decades. i remember 40 years ago, when i was a child, my father was a fruit and vegetable buyer, and he was confronted with how much money farmers got and how much it cost consumers in budapest. so the problem was there, even though it was in the context of a controlled planned economy. i agree with almost all the rapporteur's proposals, the extension of the price monitoring system in the member states and the eu, the establishment of the institution of the ombudsman. i see the french practice of contracting obligations as a good example. in the future of the cap, i hope that mr cioloş will support this, as well as supporting producer cooperatives more than the future of the cap. farmers have a role and a responsibility to play, because they have to understand that without cooperation, they have no chance of survival. this is particularly important in the new member states, because the cooperative is not the invention of the devil... (the president cut the speaker off)
i fully support mr josé bové's excellent report, in which he calls for a fair and equitable income for farmers. we have seen what the result has been of leaving the question of farmers' income entirely to the so-called free market. we have reached the point where, by the time one of my colleagues here gives a short speech, an economy in europe has already disappeared. every three to four minutes, an economy is destroyed by the current paradigm, with all its catastrophic social, human and environmental consequences. i urge those who still want to leave the income of farmers entirely to the free market to take this factor into account and to recognize the need for regulation. i would like to highlight three areas. one is to regulate the share ratio of retail chains. it's what's needed. none of them should grow at the expense of the other, and there should be market opportunities for the network of small shops, the cooperative shops, the sales opportunities for farmers. it is necessary to guarantee minimum purchase prices. yes, even the most profit-hungry chain of stores should be obliged to pay that minimum purchase price to the owner. farmers' cooperatives must be supported to the fullest. the market access framework, the eu market access framework, should be significantly capitalised and support should be given to the networks of shops that provide access to the market for locally produced food, the healthiest, freshest, local food.
as a human rights and women's rights lawyer for more than 10 years, and more than 20 years in total, i have been fighting against the phenomenon of violence against women for decades. i've written two books on the subject, so make no mistake, i strongly condemn all forms of violence against women. however, i have a different call for mrs. ashton than the others. i would like to invite you to come to hungary and clarify what human rights violations are taking place here in europe. they have no right to be here, constantly, now that the whole agenda has been turned upside down - since i have been here in the european parliament for the first time in a year, i do not know how many times - to talk about human rights violations in iran, while in hungary in 2006 they were shooting blind people, for a long time people were innocently imprisoned during conception procedures, and the european union did nothing. today in hungary, one of the leaders of the opposition is taking a half... (the chairman took the floor from the member of parliament).
in writing. – the crimes ms ashtiani is charged with are fictitious and obscure. she has been tortured and coerced during the judicial process. she has been deprived of all legal guarantees. her lawyer has been harassed by the authorities. this is an outrageous process. she was convicted of adultery in the first place. it is unbelievable that such a case should even be heard! no human power has the right to enter people’s bedrooms as long as their private life is consensual and loving. human life is not reproducible; each life is valuable in its singularity. it must be cherished and protected, even in criminal procedures. therefore, the death penalty is in itself unacceptable. there is no moral or religious justification for the death penalty. those who believe that ‘god created man in his own image’ should object to it on the grounds that no man has the right to destroy a likeness of god or take his greatest gift: life. i am delighted that european countries have raised their voices against this brutal prosecution. ms ashtiani was whipped two days ago, and her son fears she may be executed after ramadan. i hope we won’t run out of time.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, a week ago in hungary we celebrated the 70th anniversary of the second vienna decision. on the basis of this decision, nord-erdel was returned to hungary, and thus europe somewhat mitigated the injustice of the trianon decision after the first world war. with this decision, the second vienna decision, europe recognized that the trianon dictate was a bad dictate. unfortunately, after world war ii, the north pole was once again cut off from the motherland. jobbik hopes that after 70 years in the european union, the hungarian nation can be reunited as soon as possible without borders. i ask the european parliament to be open to the aspirations of the coinage and the territorial self-determination of the szeklerland. i opened an office in székely three months ago to listen closely to the grievances of hungarians across the border. i ask the deputies, i advise them to open as many places as possible, in the basque country, south tyrol... (the president cut the speaker off)
the good news is that the economic situation in the cee region is also more favourably assessed. at the same time, we see that although hungary's economic prospects have improved, the international assessment of the country's economic situation has deteriorated somewhat. therefore, no reduction in short-term interest rates is envisaged for the next six months. this devalues the foreign currency loans of about 1.5 million hungarian residents and leads them to the point that they may be deported. we respectfully ask the european institutional system to do everything possible to restore confidence in hungary and strengthen the forint in the eyes of international investors. this winter is a winter of enormous significance for the one and a half million people who are struggling with foreign currency debt.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: in the wake of the global financial crisis and the economic downturn, new choices are emerging in the european union in a number of areas. there is no longer any basis for distinguishing between the old and new member states. president barroso did not mention why the gap between the north and the south of the union is beginning to widen. for us, the new member states, the successful catch-up of ireland, spain and portugal was an inspiring example before accession. will this catch-up trend continue for these countries? will a multi-speed europe be built? will the new central european and baltic states have a chance to catch up? will there be enough resources after 2014? mr. president, i have to go. the new member states want a strong, united and dynamic european union.
in writing. mr barroso's speech just now also touched on the main tasks for energy policy. let me make three comments on this. first of all. we agree that infrastructure investment is essential. however, we still do not see the extent to which the european union is allocating community resources to implement them. connecting networks and the southern gas corridor are ambitious goals, but they will fade into obscurity if the union does not make financial commitments alongside the efforts of the private sector. the importance of the negotiations on the next seven-year budget cannot therefore be overstated. second of all. we do not see any backlog of job creation in the eu's energy strategy papers. it is crucial that investments that create jobs in addition to meeting the other criteria are given priority. the nearly four billion euro economic recovery plan did not meet this expectation. while ccs technologies with modest job potential have received generous support, energy efficiency investments that create most jobs only appeared for the first time in the complementary legislation. last but not least. it is a well-known fact that charging electric cars will become as commonplace in the eu as refuelling is today. however, achieving this also places great challenges on legislators. regulatory and standardisation barriers to renewable technologies must be removed and research and development programmes must be expanded.
in writing. the good news is that the current economic situation in the cee region is now also being assessed more favourably. it is too early to believe that the crisis is now completely behind us. hungary's economic prospects have also improved. however, the assessment of the current economic situation of the country has deteriorated somewhat. inflation expectations for the next six months have increased. accordingly, hungary is the only country where a reduction in short-term interest rates is expected only at a later stage. this negative trend is exacerbated by the appreciation of the swiss franc, as a large proportion of mortgage loans are denominated in this currency. all the states in the region are currently implementing austerity programmes, which place a heavy burden on social conditions. the best chance of success is expected to be in the czech republic. in contrast, the forecasts for hungary are cautious: the assessment is that the hungarian austerity package is unlikely to succeed. the substantive examination of the proposal submitted by the nine member states to the eu president is an important issue for the countries of the region. the proposal proposed would ensure that the public debt statement adequately reflects the costs of the pension reforms already implemented. based on adverse demographic trends, the commission's green paper on pensions calls for pension reform, while central european countries already implementing reforms are disadvantaged by the current methodology. i ask the european parliament to follow developments in this matter closely.
in writing. − as one of the shadow rapporteurs of the report i would like to congratulate dr parvanova on the acceptance of her report, which aims to offer solutions in order to minimize the disadvantage of minority women induced by ethnicity and reinforced by gender-specific structures. although gender equality is far from being achieved in mainstream society, roma women, compared to their non-roma counterparts, have lower life expectancy rates, lower education levels, significantly lower rates of employment and higher rates of poverty. in order to achieve full inclusion, gender statistics, indicators and benchmarks, as well as statistics broken down inter alia by gender and ethnicity, are crucial tools, and necessary if progress is to be properly measured. the collection of disaggregated data is a prerequisite for protecting and promoting the rights of ethnic minorities and must comply with member states’ rules on the protection of personal data. there is a very strong link between the level of education, the extent of economic activity and the probabilities of avoiding poverty for the whole family. that is why, in the first place, targeted policy actions are required to improve the access of roma women to education and registered employment.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i am glad that the eu institutions appear so sensitive to the plight of the roma today. for that very reason, it is a pity that policymakers on all sides of the political spectrum seem to use the roma issue as a weapon against their counterparts. we all agree that freedom of movement is one of the fundamental principles of community law, and accept that this right is not unconditional. as the commission has confirmed, all eu countries have the right to take security measures regarding foreigners residing on their territory. the core values of the european union, such as non-discrimination, tolerance and solidarity, must be fully respected, and the expulsion of any eu citizens must be implemented on a case-by-case basis on the grounds of proper judicial decisions, or with the free, complete and informed consent of all the individuals concerned. to quote the commission again, ‘nobody should face expulsion just for being a roma’. political opinions and legal judgements are separate issues. we might find these expulsions distasteful or far-fetched, and we must draw attention to the safeguards and principles to be acted upon, but judging the legitimacy of the measures taken by france is the sole responsibility of the commission. large-scale repatriations might be repulsive, but are even more repulsive given the empty human rights lip-service of recent decades when technically nothing was done to alleviate the terrible poverty of the roma, except for the chanting of a few cold words about anti-discrimination and tolerance when it became politically handy. we, the european roma, reject the political misuse and misinterpretation of our issues. the roma must set the discourse about themselves to reveal the problems and to articulate what actions and measures have to be taken. as proclaimed several times by this parliament, and more specifically by the european people’s party, the poverty and social exclusion of the roma is a european issue and requires a strategy of its own; a common european solution is needed for a common european problem. that strategy must tackle the economic features of the social exclusion of roma and non-roma alike, such as structural unemployment, low qualifications, dwelling in seriously disadvantaged micro-regions and barriers to self-employment – all the issues which our people are escaping from when they migrate. (the president cut off the speaker)
the expulsion of the roma from france raises fundamental rights issues, as well as questions of fundamental values. there's been a lot of talk about that today. perhaps even more important politically, the stigmatization and criminalization of a vulnerable, especially poor, ethnic group has been a violation of the right to non-discrimination, but it can also trigger dangerous trends. president sarkozy has already found followers. in hungary, the far-right party jobbik is already calling for the stripping of hungarian roma citizenship and the internment of roma in camps. the mep from jobbik talks about police camps and forced integration. the commission has acted slowly, uncertainly and weakly over the summer. i have a few questions for you. what does the commission intend to do to combat the spread of hate speech, the increase in ethnic exclusion which is increasingly poisoning europe? when will there be a comprehensive european roma strategy to prevent countries from pushing the issue onto each other, and what does the commission intend to do to monitor the spending of european funds to see if they are really helping the roma effectively?
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, a lot has been said and there have been a lot of polemics. i shall not answer in the same way, because we have to calm down and look at what we are here for – namely to solve the problems and not to create more problems. one concrete question which was asked was: who was at the córdoba summit with the representatives of the roma? the answer is lászló andor and myself, two spanish ministers, a french state secretary and a finnish minister. that was all, from the 27 governments. if you look at the papers that are available on who spends what for the roma population, then you will understand that, in the main, our governments are not utilising funds to invest in a better life for the roma population, though i will leave my colleague, lászló andor, to speak on this. i will take up on the intervention by mr swoboda, because its tone was the same as that used by many members of the european parliament. i am astonished, because we share the same values and the same principles, and when i look at the resolution by the socialist party, it copies word for word what i said in the name of the commission in august. i will quote what i said then: ‘i regret that ... the rhetoric that has been used in some member states in the past weeks has been openly discriminatory and partly inflammatory. the situation of the roma is a serious matter. it should be on the agenda not just in august, but throughout the year, and it should be treated carefully and responsibly by policy-makers. national decision-makers have an important role to play to ensure both public order and the social integration of all europeans who choose to live within their territory. because europe is not just a common market – it is at the same time a community of values and fundamental rights. the european commission will watch over this.’ so that was the official declaration by the commission. however, the commission refuses to look at the roma question in black and white, and to make a party political issue of this. like you i condemned very clearly the rhetoric which has been utilised, not only in france, but in many other member states too. like you i believe that freedom of movement is one of the basic freedoms of our european union. the whole commission supports this. however, there are not only rights. there are also obligations, and the commission has the obligation to balance those rights and obligations, which were not put on the table by us, but which this house decided on in 2004, expressing the interests of the voters. in order to have this balance between rights and obligations put into practice we have been in contact on a daily basis with the french authorities. we have made this clear, and that is why the ministers came to brussels to have a very frank and very clear discussion with the commission. i have told you what the ministers told the commission. at the same time, our legal services are continuing to analyse what the facts are on the ground, because we cannot just declare war on a member state. these are rules for analysing what a member state has done, and i told you very clearly that this analysis has not yet finished and that we do not yet have all the proof of whether there was discrimination or not or whether the procedural guarantees were applied, following a case-by-case assessment, with a justified decision in writing and a one month period in which to leave. all this is still under analysis. we know – and these are hard facts – that france has not implemented the 2004 directive on free movement as regards procedural guarantees, and it is precisely those procedural guarantees that we are speaking about, so the commission has taken the dossier in hand. that is why today i sent a letter in the name of the commission to the french authorities on this exact question. you can be assured that if there is legal evidence concerning france or any country – and you know from the past that ‘big’ countries too can receive accusations from me and that i normally win these before the court – i will act. but in order to win before the court, one has to have serious grounds, you cannot just make party political declarations. the commission is a serious organisation which has to stick to the rules and that is exactly what the commission does and what it continues to do. i regret one thing. let us forget about the party political excitement, as that is normal in politics. i regret that we have actually spoken very little about the fate of the roma, when that is what we are here for. we have had the communication and the action plan. we have the roma platforms. we have all the measures in our hands. why are those measures not applied? there is the poverty trap and the issue of discrimination. you should help the commission to push the member states to apply those measures. the money is available, but is not being used to solve the problem. why is this? well, in my personal opinion it might be because it is not very popular in our member states to take eu money and invest it in the roma community. i hope i am wrong, and that with the five actions i have proposed things will change in the future. i count on parliament to help me move in this direction because alone, with the help of mr andor, i will not manage to get that done. i need your help, but not for party polemics. i need your help to take concrete action to solve and overcome the problems.
member of the commission. − mr president, as in the past, i will also always be available in the future for discussing roma issues. let me concentrate my part of the answer on a few key points. at the beginning of this year, soon after this commission entered office, my first official visit was to paris at the opening conference of the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion. i was really impressed with the atmosphere and with the very sincere intention of ngos and government officials to tackle poverty and work together for what we later formulated as europe 2020 objectives. it should go without saying that the events of the last two months were not what we envisaged or encouraged in february in paris. this is a disappointment for many of us and i understand that part of this house which is very critical of these developments. however, even if we understand the very complex nature of these issues, i think we should turn our attention to the much more scandalous situation that exists in the countries of origin of the roma people who now face very difficult situations since france and other countries have decided to expel them. we are speaking about ten million people, many of them living in impossible situations. it is not true, as i heard in one of the statements today, that these people were never integrated. it is not true that the roma are culturally – or for any other reason – unable to integrate with mainstream societies. i have to state here that, although again it is a complex issue, before 1989 most of the roma people had jobs. they were very often poor and held unskilled jobs, but they were integrated to a certain degree in the labour market and had a basic level of livelihood. we have to make it very clear that the economic transition was also a disruption. the roma clearly became the main victims of this transitional period. if we do not appreciate this we will fail to understand the origin of the problem today and fail to appreciate how great the efforts needed are. these have to be european efforts because the countries affected do not have sufficient resources, energy and commitment to tackle the problems alone. i would like to reject categorically the assumption – or accusation – that the commission has only noticed now that some of this money – the social fund and the structural funds – does not reach the targets and does not deliver. we discussed this very frankly in córdoba with the involvement of george soros. we discussed it in the parliamentary conference chaired by mr swoboda; and there are other meetings which are destined to tackle this. the two-day esf conference in june also gave attention to this matter, as has the conference currently taking place in budapest. similar conferences are scheduled for bulgaria and slovakia next year. the main one, in which president băsescu is also expected to participate, will take place in october in bucharest and it will exclusively focus on how the european funds could be better used to tackle these problems. we have been very active, together with parliament, in establishing the new micro-finance facility. one of the key arguments for the micro-finance facility was the fact that marginalised communities – and particularly the roma – are not reached sufficiently and assisted by the mainstream financial sector or even by the european funding facilities. but we need to have a long-term strategy. nobody should believe that there is a silver bullet – some kind of quick fix to this problem – and that it is just a matter of finding a quick solution. we have to have a long-term strategy. we have a long-term strategy, namely europe 2020 with a strong commitment to combating poverty and numerical targets. the member states are working on their own reform programmes. it will simply not be acceptable if, in the countries where roma live in high numbers, a strong commitment is not made in the poverty reduction programme for the roma communities in terms of employment and, equally importantly, education. early childhood education is key. commissioner vassiliou is with us in spirit in all these discussions, and will also participate in the taskforce suggested by viviane reding when it comes into force. it starts with early childhood education and continues with a proper preparation for participating in the labour market. but it really is an uphill struggle and it will take a lot of energy. however, i would agree with all those who emphasise that we should also take the immediate situation seriously and not only speak about the long-term plans for integration. indeed there is a risk of rising racism and xenophobia. as the president said in his speech this morning, these have absolutely no place in the european union.
let me conclude with a subjective comment. since i'm chairing the meeting, i wasn't able to comment on the subject, but i did put my comments in writing, because i think this case is so important.
president of the council. - mr president, a few words to conclude this debate, which is certainly very interesting, and to say that it will have been useful if tomorrow it advances the question of roma integration. i think that is the main point to be made at the beginning of this afternoon and, as i said earlier, this question is regularly found in the conclusions of the various council configurations, including epsco, all of which are aimed at promoting the integration of the roma in the member states. the council's various texts show how often it rails against the stigmatization of an ethnic group. the belgian presidency has recently reiterated that integration remains one of the founding principles of the european union and that this issue deserves a debate in the appropriate places involving, of course, all the countries concerned with the necessary serenity. we have of course taken note of the recent decisions of the commission and the request to convene a joint epsco-jai council. that said, i shall not be speaking today on the advisability of this request. i would simply like to say that the epsco council has, at least in part, anticipated this request, since it has put the issue of roma integration on the agenda of its next meeting, which will be held on 21 october.
i have received six motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 9 september 2010. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. the events of the past few weeks in france have shown that simplifying the problem is not a lasting solution that will improve the situation of those affected. the roma constitute a special minority group, as they have dual minority status. they form an ethnic community and most of them belong to socially disadvantaged groups. today, roma are still victims of discrimination, marginalisation and segregation in many areas of public and private life. the roma community is still not recognised as a national or ethnic minority group in all member states and therefore does not enjoy the rights deriving from this status in all the countries concerned. consequently, their meaningful participation in public life is limited and in many cases can only take place on a voluntary basis. the social responsibility for the integration of roma communities is shared asymmetrically between the majority society and the roma. the majority society should accept and support the roma as a disadvantaged social group without assimilation. on the other hand, roma must accept the rules that govern society as a whole and take more initiative in dealing with their own problems. another lesson from events in france is that the social integration of roma communities cannot be organised within a purely national framework. in addition to local, regional and national levels, member states should cooperate within the eu framework. substantial resources should be allocated to this task from the union cohesion funds in the budgetary cycle after 2013.
in writing. we are witnessing daily sharp attacks on france's policy and harsh measures against the romanians and bulgarians. on the socialist and liberal side, some have branded president nicolas sarkozy as a populist, xenophobe and racist, exploiting the plight of the roma in western europe for their own partisan political ends. unfortunately, the issue of roma exiles has become too politicized. the unilateral emphasis on the principle of free movement within the european union tends to overlook the fact that the solution to the situation of the roma in eastern and central europe is not emigration or 'nomadisation' on a continental scale, but that their fate can be resolved in their own countries with the help of the member states and the eu. for the sake of propaganda, some forget that freedom of movement cannot be an end in itself, but the opposite: staying in one's own country and living in dignity is a fundamental universal and european value, to which europe's largest ethnic and social minority is entitled. we must therefore strive to make every citizen of the union feel at home in his own country and thus avoid having to seek his fortune in foreign countries. to the pro-democratic gypsy defenders who are pushing the boundaries of political cynicism, perhaps the most direct answer is the words of nobel peace prize winner elie wiesel: after all, gypsies are not sent to auschwitz, they are sent to romania.
the next item is the statement by the commission on the humanitarian situation following the floods in pakistan.
the rapporteur. - thank you for your speech, madam president. i'll try to keep it short. it would be nice if we could end this discussion quickly. this debate started off rather difficult, as we cannot simply talk about the usual consultation procedure, but the commission and the council, and we ourselves here in parliament, consider the current wording of the employment guidelines to be part of a common thinking, a common thinking on the 2020 strategy. finally, it seems that the time available to us has enriched the debate, although i must say that we found a number of useful and good proposals in the commission's proposal from the outset. we've made some changes. first of all, i'd like to draw your attention to a structural change. we believe that although both in-school and out-of-school training are very important, we have not seen any reason to say so in two different directives, especially when we have reduced the previous 24 employment directives to only four. that's why we've put this together, but we've added a new element. we would like to emphasise the importance of cohesion policy as an instrument and environment for employment, because if we decide on developments that reduce disparities between individual member states, we will initiate developments in the european union that bring together countries that are far apart in many respects. we need to link these policies in terms of employment. we support developments that create jobs, because we have no doubt that the number one priority is to create new jobs. this is particularly due to the economic crisis, which, although there are encouraging signs, i think that on the whole we are not over it and that we are even less aware of what it means for employment. between 2008 and 2010, the number of unemployed people went from maybe 16 million to 23 million, which is a huge number, and i'm sorry to say that it's even worse among young people, where unemployment went up to about 20.5 percent. i think that these numbers are indications of a disease, a problem, that should open our eyes to what we have to do. i think that we can support a good many of the proposals which are being put forward by the council and the commission. we can support the 75% target of 75% of working age people in employment, although we would like to see that for young people it is higher. for those aged 15 to 24 who are either in school or working, the rate should be at least 90%. don't be a young man with a bell. i would like to see the european union's policy on poverty and social inclusion, and i would like to see the european union's policy on poverty and social inclusion, and i would like to see the european union's policy on social inclusion and social inclusion, and i would like to see the european union's policy on social inclusion and social inclusion, and i would like to see the european union's policy on social inclusion and social inclusion, and i would like to see the european union's policy on social inclusion and social inclusion, and i would like to see the european union's policy on social inclusion and social inclusion, and i would like to see the european union's policy on social inclusion and social inclusion, and i would like to see the european union's policy on social inclusion and social inclusion, and i would like to see the european union's policy on social inclusion and social inclusion, and i would like to see the european union's policy on social inclusion. i hope that the council will agree to give this matter special attention.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? i would like to say to mr andor that we have not set out new objectives but sub-objectives, so we did not want to add to them but to clarify them, and i hope that this is acceptable in this form. in this debate, i see that we all agree that in order to survive the crisis and to compete with the emerging regions of the world, we need to work harder, more and better, and in order to do that, the elderly, women, the disabled, the low-skilled are not a burden, they are not a barrier, they are an opportunity, a reserve, and obviously, we need to adjust policies accordingly. there was also a great deal of agreement, and i am glad that this was underlined by the belgian presidency, that special attention should be paid to smes and the fiscal environment for them, because this is the area where new jobs can be created, or where they can be created in large numbers, and we obviously need to concentrate. it's important that we talked about new forms of employment. they're here, they're present, and there's a lot of misunderstanding. clearly, better regulation is needed, taking into account the definition, expectations and requirements of fair work as defined by the international labour organisation. and it also gives me a special confidence, as mr. chastel has told us, that when we think of good governance, that includes monitoring, checking, if you will, all of us, including ourselves, being held accountable for what we have undertaken, promised, collectively decided, whether we can deliver. so i want to thank you all for your cooperation. we have indeed worked well, both the commission and the council and our colleagues with the shadow rapporteurs, and i hope that this joint effort will eventually be reflected in the council decision and any subsequent consultation. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are asking that if you feel that there are many things that need to be changed, that we come back to you in a joint consultation. we are prepared to do so on our own behalf, on behalf of parliament. thank you very much for your cooperation and i hope we did a good job.
in writing. my colleague, the guard, has done an excellent job and i can only commend him for his efforts. as a member of the european parliament with a disability, i can say with certainty that without its activism and openness, the largest political force in europe, the european people's party, would not have supported the inclusion of people with disabilities in the work of the ep to the extent that it is doing today. mr guardias innovative and simplifying approach can lead to unforeseeable results not only in the right topics but also in their proper implementation. my colleague is not only a firm hand in the direct choice of topics, but also a professional coordinator who, by fine-tuning the apparent border areas, can make the objectives of the ep and in particular of the european people's party more widely known. of these, investing in people as capital is the most important objective - sustainable and growing employment is needed. however, in addition to creating quality jobs, i also consider it important that the employment of disabled people is a key objective, since their unemployment rate is between 60 and 70%, and in some member states it is as high as 90%. europe must not only innovate and create green jobs, but also provide jobs for those who are hard to find. this could also lead to a rethinking of globalism by tackling the exploitation of low-cost, socially deprived workers from outside the eu and the growing unemployment of european workers with disabilities.
thank you very much, madam president. my fellow members of the house of representatives! imagine that this house has an electoral system that allows a simple majority to achieve two-thirds majority. the largest political group, including its leader, nominates and then elects the president of parliament by a comfortable majority. it appoints and elects the president of the european commission, the president of the european court of auditors, the members and the president of the european court of justice. he's unjustifiably removing the heads of the community administration. it's making decisions that make it almost impossible for smaller parties to win or even participate. the leader of the group which is calling for revolutionary change then appoints a loyal party member to head the european parliament's press service, and the loyal party member ensures that every media department is headed by a reliable man, so that the general public will receive positive and pleasant news about the group and the activities of the leader of the group. of course, that cannot happen in this house, because european democracy is built on a system of checks and balances, and the media are the watchdog. the elimination of this, the restriction of freedom of the press and speech cannot be justified even by a two-thirds parliamentary majority, and this has been happening for three months in hungary. with democratic checks and balances at home virtually gone, the watchdog poisoned, and the poison is already working, the only feedback is from the european institutions. that's what we're waiting for. the osce representative on freedom of the media has already expressed serious concerns.
my dear officer. it is extremely troubling that in the european union, as was said tonight, the most frequent references were to romania, italy, bulgaria and, unfortunately, my own country, hungary, where one of the fundamental values of the european union, freedom of expression and of the press, is being violated. she must be a woman. the european commission will spare no effort to check member states for compliance with this fundamental eu right. the commission must ensure that there is no monopoly in ownership in the member states, as in italy with the berlusconi newspaper empire, whose example is already being followed in hungary with the purchase of rtl klub, or that party militants are not put in charge of the public service media. these are phenomena that the european commission should address and monitor.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. officer, please. i thank you for speaking and for the fact that freedom of speech and the press, which are regarded as fundamental human rights, are taken so seriously and are treated in such a balanced way by the commission. i heard a confusing tale tonight, i heard vague allusions and regretful accusations. allow me, madam commissioner, to give you a credible account of the proposed hungarian media law. all parties agreed that the 1996 act was extremely outdated. the new government has introduced the draft media package to finally create a clear structure and clear financial foundations in media regulation. and what are you going to do that with? by preventing wasteful government spending, for example. by solving the structural problems. by making the media system transparent. what's that? by reducing the number of party delegates to one-fifth. or by making the national media and communications authority accountable to the national assembly. or by declaring freedom of the press and protecting the independence of journalists. or by ensuring that investigative journalists' sources of information are kept confidential while protecting constitutional rights. officer, please. in the meantime, former power interests are sometimes harmed, and some even resort to malicious gossip. but the bill was introduced after a long process, and it's not a historic bill, because the debate on this bill starts next week. the commission has a huge responsibility. this is a matter which must be taken seriously and, as has been said, it is indeed a matter of uniform, transparent and predictable evaluation. the vague stories, the allusions, are precisely the dangers that they carry and the harm they do to nation states.
on behalf of the s&d group. increasing life expectancy is both an outcome and an opportunity. we can be proud of the fact that life expectancy is increasing in europe, but it is also a challenge. it's a challenge, in part, because of how we can ensure active ageing in our ageing society. how much can we ensure that older people have the opportunity to participate in society, to be free from discrimination? we know that there is much to be done in this area. can we get people to spend more years in health? how much can we provide income security in old age, lifelong learning? perhaps the european year of active ageing will help to bring this to the attention of the public. but there is definitely a time coming when older people are going to need social and health care, they are going to be less able to represent themselves, and we have a greater responsibility to make sure they have access to quality services. this is particularly important for low-income, poor elderly people to have adequate services available, and for vulnerable elderly people in need of long-term care, whether in home care or in institutions. there are also some specific tasks in which we ask the commission for help. some of the important data that we need is about the needs, the people who need care. the most vulnerable need to be given special attention, control mechanisms and the collection of good practices need to be minimum standards.
officer, please. i have known you for the past year, since you became convinced that you were protecting the health of european consumers, of european citizens. i am sure that the commission will be able to give us a clear answer to this question. there was a health argument that there was research in the united states, but we wanted objective european research, not involved in any american lobbying, that actually showed that it was actually not harmful to health. but even if it's not harmful to health, scientific research can continue, but before me, they said there's no reason for it. i am a key member of the committee on agriculture and i believe that there is no justification for cloned food to be placed on the shelves of shops in the european food industry. i have heard that and i fully agree that there are holes in this system, as i have recently asked you about the moroccan fruit and vegetables. so yes, we need to protect our markets from imports. the animal welfare aspect has been said by linda mcavan and others, and i completely agree with those who have spoken before me, that science should not be stopped, but at some point, yes, cloning should be stopped, because i don't want to meet, and my assistants don't want to meet, another human being who has been cloned from me. this is ethically untenable, and we're asking the board for a moratorium.
in writing. the resolution tabled by the socialists, liberals and greens and the united left contains a number of unfounded and even unacceptable statements. as i said in the debate on questions to the european council and the european commission on tuesday, political opinion and legal assessment are two different things, and although the rejections may be considered repugnant or excessive, the european commission alone has the competence to assess the legality of the french measures. in the face of the ongoing committee evaluation, without knowing the results of the evaluation and on the basis of unproven information, to accuse a country of a serious breach of the law is, in my opinion, a damaging act for the credibility of the parliament. however, as the rapporteur of the ep responsible for the european roma strategy, i felt it was essential that the forward-looking proposals in the motion should be formulated as a formal european parliament position in the current situation. it is therefore important to state that the eu and its member states share responsibility for roma integration and that this requires a comprehensive eu-wide strategy involving roma communities in its creation, from local levels to international ngos, including all aspects of planning, implementation and monitoring. it should also be stated that a comprehensive development programme must be established, targeting all the related policy areas at once and allowing immediate action in the ghettoised areas facing serious structural handicaps.
i am grateful to mrs. de lange for allowing me to speak from personal experience on the subject. last year, several hungarian farmers approached me with complaints that under the common agricultural policy, the grazing aid was reduced if indigenous trees and bushes were not cut down. clearly, there is a conflict between agricultural subsidies and biodiversity. with one hand, we pay farmers to build artificial bird pens, and with the other, we encourage the destruction of the habitat of birds and other creatures. there is a hungarian proverb that says: "the right hand does not know what the left is doing". it is therefore very important that biodiversity is a priority in the next natura 2000 review, the cap reform and the new water policy framework for 2011-12.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. unfortunately, it is a fact for all of us that the goal of halting biodiversity loss by 2010 has not been met. according to some estimates, the rate of biodiversity loss has fallen by 30 percent in the last 40 years, while the causes of excessive biodiversity loss have not diminished. in view of this, our priority is to address the causes of biodiversity loss through sectoral policies as soon as possible. this is a major challenge for policy-makers, as there are many other important economic and social interests that conflict with efforts to conserve biodiversity. however, we must be aware that while maintaining our own prosperity and economic development, we cannot deprive future generations of the benefits of biodiversity. i think it is important to highlight the point in the report that calls for an end to the loss of genetic diversity and of native species. what would the hungarian countryside be without gray beef, mangalica, hungarian tarka or hemp seed chickens? but we could also mention the apple of the turk's whale, the nut of the milota, or the plum of the besterce! the conservation of agricultural and livestock genetic diversity is a key interest for many european countries, given the economic, social, environmental and, not least, food security value of indigenous species. finally, as regards life+, i suggest that the commission consider increasing the level of eu co-financing, given the low utilisation of the programme due to its extremely high self-report.
my fellow members of the house of representatives! can you imagine that there is a group of victims of crime who suffer every day physical violence, beatings, assaults, sexual violence and the most brutal forms of psychological abuse, threats, terrorization. we are talking about female victims of violence against women, including domestic and intimate violence, who were approached by a courageous and strong group last week, complaining that in hungary this very large group still lacks any support, any help. if you go to the police, tell them it's a private matter, we won't interfere, if you go to the guardianship, child protection, tell them to do something, ma'am, because otherwise we'll take your child away from you. i would like to call on all members of the european parliament to come together and ask you to organise a serious hearing for victims of violence against women and to represent their interests in all possible fora.
the eu's external service will soon be operational, a first success of the common foreign policy. however, we are less pleased that the principle of regional balance in the appointment of directors is no longer applied. the list of names published last week shows that only four of the nearly 30 heads of mission will come from the new member states. we find that unacceptable. we do not believe that professional competence depends on national membership. appointments should be made on the basis of both competence and proportionality. in view of the above, we call upon lady ashton to ensure that there is appropriate territorial proportionality in any further appointments. for heads of mission and other officials, both for as long as the principle of geographical balance remains in place. the approval of the european parliament shall not be considered a mere formality.
my fellow members of the house of representatives! the global expansion and internationalisation of gas trade has brought with it the risk that international political and economic conflicts could have a direct or indirect impact on the integrated gas market, jeopardising its functioning and thus security of supply. any gas market model is predominantly able to address only the shorter-term capacity, supply, engineering and technological and price change problems and to approximate the overall cost of the service to a minimum. therefore, security of supply should be defined as a guarantee that the required quantity of gas is continuously available to uninterrupted customers at an affordable price. in the development of security of supply policy, particular attention should be paid to temperature-dependent household consumers who are not able to switch energy. these consumers are not in a position to fight for their own security of gas supply. in the now fully liberalised gas market, the state, its government, the regulatory authorities have an obligation to include all acceptable service requirements in the general service contract.
i agree with those who say that the gas regulation will help us to protect ourselves more effectively against supply disruptions, and i thank the rapporteur for that. i consider the provisions on consumer protection to be particularly important. i am pleased that instead of the initial narrow definition, district heating networks and small businesses will also be given priority protection. this is not a small number of consumers, since 600 000 households in hungary alone are served by district heating networks. the protection of small businesses is important because, as we saw in the first days of 2009, these companies could easily be close to bankruptcy in the event of a gas supply disruption. my fellow members of the house of representatives! at the same time, let me remind you that while the adoption of the gas supply regulation is a significant step, it cannot replace energy investments. last week, four new member states sent a letter to commissioner oettinger, calling on the visegrad countries to strengthen the eu's financial instruments to support energy investment, in particular for the next seven-year financial plan. we can only agree with what is in this letter. the eu's efforts to develop alternative transport routes could provide a reassuring picture of gas supply. and i think that this intention should finally be reflected in the budget figures.
it is important that the european union responds at community level to energy security, but member states that have not yet adequately resolved their bilateral political relations with russia must also do so. 80% of hungary's natural gas imports come from russia, which makes hungarian consumers extremely dependent, and residents using district heating are particularly vulnerable. hungary therefore clearly wants to diversify both its sources of supply and its transport routes. we have clearly supported and will support both the nabucco and the south stream projects and the use of eu community funds. but the cheapest way for us to get through ukraine is to have a stable, reassuring transit arrangement. we ask the commission to act at community level, to mediate between russia and ukraine and to enforce a guarantee system for ukrainian transit.
i congratulate the commissioner and parliament on their cooperation in producing this major document. it is a good step in the right direction, but it is clear that the law is only a prerequisite for investment, and that creating a european investment climate can also help us on the road to the crisis. this legislation can be a clear proof that cooperation does not mean giving up national sovereignty, but increasing the freedoms of european citizens. there are big debates in hungary. we hungarian socialists are committed to the creation of european energy security. the hungarian prime minister promised a year ago to create complete energy independence for hungary. we are glad that he has changed his mind and is thinking about the future of energy security and cooperation in the european union.
my fellow members of the house of representatives! the european union has well-defined certain objectives. there are also some anachronists, and i think that's why we don't recognize china as a market economy. a number of people have mentioned the importance of market access. i would point out to commissioner de gucht that the only way for a large part of european foodstuffs to enter the chinese market is through hong kong. the commission should take action in this area. several spoke of cooperation on climate change. yes, that was part of the reason copenhagen failed. finally, on human rights, it is right that we are standing up for tibetan autonomy, for tibetan minorities, but let us not forget that 700 million villagers and 200 million migrant workers do not have health care, social security, pensions and the education of their children is a problem.
madam president, as we know, the eu is china’s largest trade partner, and china enjoys our support in their economic reforms, but let us not forget that these reforms cannot move forward without reforms in the field of respect for human rights. europe successfully put an end to its nearly 50-year experience with communist totalitarianism that deprived people of their identities, distorting the natural course of so many lives. therefore, in dialogues with china, as well as in the upcoming summit, we must continuously focus on communist china’s failures to respect human rights. our statements must reflect a stronger and more defined common position in order to provide a meaningful engagement on issues such as freedom of the press and religion, discrimination against ethnic minorities, the issue of tibet, the uighurs and the death penalty. i therefore ask the eu representatives to ensure a better integration of human rights issues into eu-china relations.
i congratulate mrs klaß on a balanced report on a very complex subject, although there is a debate here in the house, some who are serious about biocide regulation and some who are trying to simplify it to fight rodents. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is a very serious matter and that this report is excellent because it is at the same time environmentally, consumer protection and the chemical industry. the new regulation on biocides provides greater protection, protecting housewives and domestic workers, but not pests, and i therefore believe that the klaß report should be supported and that all the fears voiced by the other side of the house are unfounded, that there is indeed a need for increased protection and that the helsinki agency will do an excellent job in this respect. 2017 corresponds to hungary and the new member states.
in writing. it must be admitted that, even before the new lisbon requirements, annual budgets could only be adopted by mobilising exceptional financial instruments in the last four years of the current financial framework. it is therefore understandable that the revision of the current multiannual financial framework is now inevitable and that additional resources are needed for initiatives that could not have been foreseen when the current framework was adopted. the union's financial decision-makers have a duty to provide the means to achieve its objectives and policies, taking into account the new areas of action identified by the treaty of lisbon, including external action, sport, space, climate change, energy policy, tourism and civil protection. the european added value of the eu budget should be taken into account, as it is a manifestation of solidarity and efficiency through the collection and sharing of financial resources, dispersed at national, regional and local level, the vast majority of which supports long-term investments that stimulate the union's economic growth. the necessary steps should be taken to make available additional resources for the european external action service and other priorities related to the treaty of lisbon, as well as for other initiatives, in particular those under chapter 1a 'resilience for growth and jobs', which create union added value, allowing the union to fulfil its commitments and meet the expectations of its citizens.
the rapporteur. - my fellow members, commissioner, that is to say mr lewandowski and the council. the commission presented it, the council adopted the 7th amendment to the 2010 budget. what's the point of this? well, if we're gonna make a joke, that would be a good one. we create a blank line, a new line in the budget, in which we don't put billions, not a single cent. at the same time, journalists like to talk about 60 billion euros. this eur 60 billion, as the title suggests, is nothing more than a guarantee, the probability of which, in the commission's view, is zero. well, the worst-case scenario is that we're not always going to like it, so the bottom line is that there's a very small probability that you're actually going to have to move money through this line. why do you even care? and why now, in the 2010 budget? well, because what we're talking about is actually part of the plan that the european union has developed to solve the financial crisis of a country that's in trouble in the future. this is the element that primarily concerns the parliament and the budget of the european union, and it has a ceiling of no more than eur 60 billion for the period up to 2014. so this 60 billion is a fixed upper bound. why do we have to do this now? we have to do this because it's a message. a message to the market. a message to those who doubt that we want to save countries that are in trouble in the future. there's no need for it now, so there's no point in filling it with money, but it's worth waiting in line, because if there is, we'll be able to do it quickly. and the message from this empty line is also to the member states, who are worried about us taking more money from them, that this is not what is at issue. and this story is not about greece. it's about the future, first and foremost. it is therefore not right for a member state to avoid solidarity by invoking the mistakes of the greeks, whether they are perceived or not. this is the plan before us, the plan of solidarity between the member states, and without solidarity, ladies and gentlemen, there is no european union.
the rapporteur. - first of all, i would like to thank the political groups who support this motion, and i think that the motion really does serve the cause of security. but the criticisms are also correct, which point out that there is a package of some 800 billion, and parliament can look at 60 billion of that and deal with it. it is a bit like a parliament, not to say within the framework of the lisbon treaty, but not existing at all. but we have to do with these 60 billion and in this respect i would like to make it clear once again that the commitments here apply to those euro-zone member states. so if the speech of someone who is defending the interests of his own constituents and saying no can be seen as the united kingdom's soon-to-be-membership of the eurozone, then this day in particular should be written in red letters in the history of the european union. because i believe in the eurozone unlike many others and i would like my country to be obliged to pay soon in this rescue plan. where i very much hope that we are really at or around zero, that is the probability that it can be called, they will call this guarantee undertaking, because the member state is taking a huge risk if it does not meet its payment obligation after the rescue. if i remember correctly, the treaty of lisbon allows for exclusion where appropriate, and that would be a mistake to the extent that it should be considered. i think that's the guarantee that another commenter asked for. i would like to thank you once again for your attention and ask the members of the house to support this motion tomorrow. let us do this to ensure the security of the citizens of europe.
mr. president, i have to go. officer, please. the motion for a resolution rightly states that mountain regions, islands and sparsely populated areas face particularly difficult challenges and therefore require specific regional development programmes and support. the presentation is about gross domestic product, gdp, as an indicator. in this context, it is important to emphasise that gdp should continue to be used as a measure of member states' eligibility for regional policy support when allocating eu funds. gdp is a basic measure of development, development, the impact of regional development activities and an indicator that can be linked to other indicators. this does not mean, however, that the social and environmental consequences of economic decisions should be ignored, since only growth that is accompanied by social progress and an improvement in the quality of life is beneficial. at national level, decision-makers within individual countries may use alternative indicators to allocate development aid between regions, such as the allocation of member state aid to mountain, island and sparsely populated regions. however, i would like to draw the commission's attention to the fact that at eu level we must maintain gdp as the basic indicator for eligibility in order to continue to use the less developed member states effectively.
in writing. a controversial situation has been created by the international civil aviation organization. icao is strongly opposing the eu's efforts to extend eu ets standards to flights operated by non-european-based airlines. the inclusion of aviation in the ets is the right move, provided that it does not only affect eu airlines. the eu should therefore consistently enforce the principle of geographical neutrality, and environmental standards for european skies should also apply to flights from third countries. if strict standards were to apply only to european companies, this would give airlines from third countries an unjustified competitive advantage. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on the same day as the airport services agreement signed with ryanair on the same day. we must not forget the environmental consequences. with a partial regulation, we would probably have to continue to rely on voluntary offers from industry. and they haven't had the desired results. the much-touted fuel efficiency offers are worth little if they multiply as air traffic increases. it is a matter of record that icao estimates fuel consumption to quadruple by 2050. the eu must therefore take strong action to ensure that ets requirements apply to all flights in european skies. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate change strategy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate change strategy.
mr president, my question to mr schulz is very simple: how can the ideas and views of citizens in our member states at domestic level be completely neglected? in his view, how is it in line with the fundamental ideas of democracy that decisions at eu level, typically by non-elected individuals, can prevail over the will of the citizens? that is a very simple question, i think.
mr president, the eu has half a billion inhabitants, and this number of people is not negligible in world politics. the usa has only 296 million people. the eu has all the potential to be a great power, as we have been for years in the economic and cultural field. yet in the political field we have not yet lived up to our potential, because europe often remains divided, even when common action would be more efficient. europe already has a phone number, but it has no real common voice. the cfsp and the esdp are currently non-visible policies from a political point of view. whether we like it or not, a common voice means that we will need greater foreign policy and defence policy coordination. common policies like that go right to the heart of the matter of national sovereignty, but what members get in return for parts of their national sovereignty is greater influence in world politics. that is why i welcome president van rompuy’s initiative and why i encourage the council to continue the coordination it began last weekend, and eventually to broaden and deepen it. emotions must not deter us from our goals, as you said.
mr president, i would like to warmly welcome the statement by the hungarian prime minister, viktor orbán, about launching the european roma strategy during the upcoming hungarian presidency. this parliament has been the propelling force behind developing a common european programme for roma inclusion and, after the announcement of the representatives of several member states, i sincerely hope that the council will also support the next eu presidency in providing a common european solution for a common european problem. the primary cause of the social exclusion of the european roma is not mainly racism or discrimination, but the interdependence of several historical and economic factors. therefore, the strategy must define its target audience not by ethnicity but on the basis of its common economic attributes, and must focus on alleviating geographically-concentrated deep poverty that affects roma and non-roma alike in certain disadvantaged microregions of the european union. this strategy must permit an eu-coordinated chain of complex development programmes, based on clear and unambiguous indicators like the laeken indicators, with proper community monitoring, and taking advantage of multi-level governance. in the short run, the pan-european action plan must prevent the reproduction of deep poverty through generations, and in the medium term it is necessary to equalise the regional lack of the underdevelopment of micro-regions. (interruption from the president) in the long run, as i said, the hopeless poverty-stricken masses of today must become the equal taxpayers of tomorrow. this will require a sustained, enhanced and shared effort by all the stakeholders, the eu institutions, the member states, ngos and also the roma themselves. europe cannot afford politics as usual: not at the moment, when the demographic and the social challenges we are facing are so great and the consequences of inaction are so dangerous. we must act quickly and we must act boldly to transform our entire approach.
i would ask president van rompuy, whose work i greatly appreciate because it is systematic and consistent, to convince the member states that wherever roma live, they should develop medium-term roma government programmes. i dare say this because i was the one who, as secretary of state, developed europe's first roma programme in hungary. with deadlines, with people in charge, with funding. and i would ask mr van rompuy and mr sefcovic, on behalf of the commission, and the president of parliament, mr jerzy buzek, to work together to develop a monitoring system to check that the member states are fulfilling their commitments. thirdly, it is the task of the european commission to develop the eu roma strategy, which should define the role of the local and regional level, the competence of the member states and the eu added value, which is the essence of the eu roma strategy.
in writing. the events of the past few weeks confirm the legitimacy of our long-standing demand: europe needs a comprehensive strategy to promote the social inclusion of roma. the expulsion of the roma from france has suddenly put them in the spotlight, making the problems of the continent's largest minority a european issue. i hope the sad events of the past few weeks will give impetus to our collective action. the decisions taken at last week's eu summit also give us hope. the european parliament has long called for a european roma strategy to avoid member states shifting responsibility for the situation in the community. i look forward to seeing what the hungarian government intends to do to promote the strategy as the next eu president. i hope that the european commission will very quickly complete its investigation into the legality of the measures taken by the french government and, if necessary, take immediate legal action to address the practice of infringing the eu's fundamental rights. i find it unacceptable that the french government, as one of the founding members of the eu, has ignored the opinion of the european parliament and the warnings of the european commission.
mr president, as a member of the sub-committee on human rights, i strongly condemn the happenings of recent months in the congo. in the 21st century it is an inadmissible fact that killings, rape and child abuse are commonly used as a weapon of war while un forces are present in the area. in the last five years, the number of just the documented cases has grown 20 times in the congo. women’s and children’s lives are in danger; their human rights are totally neglected and they are deprived of human dignity. moreover, they can no longer integrate into their traditional community, which leads to the destruction of social infrastructure as well. the international community has to admit officially that mass rape in the congo is a war crime against humanity. there is a need for a concerted response to maintain pressure on the perpetrators of these rapes and to bring them to justice at local level or in the international criminal court. i welcome the fact that the eusec rdc has just been extended until 30 september 2012 and, hopefully, eupol rdc will be renewed as well. specialised personnel should be deployed to assign criminal investigation. further support should be ensured by the european initiative for democracy and human rights. further action should be taken, such as the provision of peacekeepers with mobile phones, the improvement of communication between the monusco peacekeeping force and the local population, and a strengthening of the commitment to tackle rebel groups. humanitarian agencies must be supported so they can reach the civil population in need of assistance. at the same time, the government should bring into effect its own recently declared zero tolerance policy and should establish the national committee of human rights, as laid down in the constitution. all in all, the protection of women and children must be given priority.
thank you for your answer. i have tried to understand better, on the basis of mr chastel's reply, what arguments and counter-arguments might have been raised in the european council. we know that this issue has been dragging on since 2008, when the commission put the draft directive on the table and then parliament approved it the following year. this is undoubtedly a burden, but it is also an obligation for the union, whether because of the un convention or in connection with it, and so let me ask you, in the light of all this, how mr chastel sees it, whether there is any possibility, whether there is any hope that in the near future, after considering all these factors, some progress will be made. secondly, i think that the crisis is also a call specifically to the fact that the implementation of the equal opportunities, anti-discrimination policy can also help a lot of people in very difficult life situations.
my dear officer füle! i agree with those who say - mr brok spoke before me - that there are huge reserves in crossborder cooperation. i was a member of the national parliament for almost 15 years near the hungarian-serbian border, more precisely my work was devoted to this region. i know firsthand that there would be a lot of reserves for border cooperation and there is a very big contradiction that, despite hungary's membership of the union, regional cooperation within the union gives very little opportunity to hungary and vojvodina, this province of serbia, and there is a very big contradiction, which we have already discussed today, commissioner füle: that those states, such as serbia, which wants to join the european union, can no longer be part of this framework, whereas for us the western balkans, cooperation with the western balkan countries, romania and its western balkan neighbours, and between hungary and its western balkan neighbour, serbia, would be extremely important, so there is a problem in the priorities, and i fully agree with mr brant that this should be reviewed politically and strategically as a whole, as both the czech republic and the rest of europe, especially our neighbour in the balkans, know this. there's a lot of potential in that. this is very important because you mentioned mr. brok, the problem of ethnic minorities. cross-border cooperation is not only necessary because certain environmental problems can only be solved if cross-border cooperation - this applies to the baltic states, the countries bordering the danube, and the black sea - is also important from the point of view of environmental pollution, but also from the point of view of interethnic relations. the relationship between minorities living in other countries, for example, in the case of hungary, the relationship between 180,000 hungarians living in ukraine and hungary, the relationship between ukrainians living in hungary and ukraine, the same in the case of vojvodina, the serbs, is therefore a very serious stabilizing force in this regional cooperation, which we do not yet need to use to its full extent. i would like to ask and trust mr füle to look at the previous concept in this direction and to have a much broader neighbourhood policy in the future, one which better serves the interests of the union.
mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the commissioner said that fundamental national interests prevented the desirable cooperation with individual countries. if there is, i accept, then i think that governments misunderstand their fundamental national interests, which are not in favor of cooperation, but in favor of confrontation, and this conception of the state's role is clearly at odds with the interests of citizens on both sides of the border in the region, who are certainly in favor of cooperation. we can quote jean monet's oft-quoted statement that we don't want to integrate states, we want to integrate people. we must turn in that direction, and the picture is further coloured by the fact that a relatively large number of european citizens live outside our borders, that is, outside the external borders of the union, for example in moldova. it is clear that cooperation between romania and moldova is vital and advances the relationship between the countries. officer, please. i doubt that these, i think, misunderstood governmental, political considerations alone would prevent this instrument from functioning perfectly and harmoniously. i think that the administrative side also needs to be strongly reviewed and progress made in that, and it will be particularly important, we expect this analysis from the commission, to see the effectiveness of the programme. we spend the money of european citizens, and we can only spend it with a clear conscience if the programmes are effective and efficient. and this is a very important issue. we're not telling these people outside our borders, through cross-border cooperation, that we want to embrace them as an empire, but we're telling them that we belong together in some way, that the border between us is not some chinese wall that can't be crossed, but that through cooperation, their lives can be better. of course, we never defined where the external border of the union is, so the door is theoretically open. obviously not for the whole world, but this is about the particulars, about people, about families that are connected by history. there are moving boundaries here in the 20th century. there's a village between slovakia and ukraine, and the border runs through the middle of it, because stalin's booted soldiers drew it there. in the context of such historical backdrop, it is vital that this union programme serve the interests of citizens effectively and efficiently.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. we have heard much about this oil disaster, and we have all seen the shocking images on television. but do you know, do you know, do you know, my dear colleagues, that in the last few years, 97% of the intentional violations of safety regulations, i say again 97% of all the intentional violations of safety regulations, have been committed by british petroleum, of all the american oil companies? do you know that this company has caused a number of accidents in the last decade? do you know that british petroleum has significantly reduced its safety and maintenance costs to maintain profits, and that has also played a role in the increasing number of accidents? mrs lepage was just saying that the most important thing is to anticipate disasters, to prevent them. we all know that prevention is the key. you're right about that. but i think that whether it's the american disaster, the gulf of mexico disaster, or those disasters, industrial and natural disasters that have happened in the last few years, or the disaster in hungary the day before yesterday, it clearly proves to us that natural and industrial disasters can happen anywhere, anytime. that's why i think it's important to have a cleanup, and a quick and effective cleanup. we talk a lot about extreme weather and its consequences, and the risks that it poses, and how it increases the risk of natural and industrial disasters. i think that's true, and if that's true, then we need to think ahead. we have to be alert to warning signs, like the disaster in hungary the day before yesterday, or the disaster in the gulf of mexico this spring. i therefore propose to my honourable colleagues, i propose to the european parliament, that we establish a european disaster fund to deal with the damage effectively.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! i would like to thank commissioner günther oettinger for his efforts to assess whether eu legislation could prevent similar environmental disasters in the wake of the us rig accident. perhaps it can be concluded that community regulations focus on post-disaster action rather than prevention. this deficiency is given tragic relevance by a major environmental disaster. on monday, the dam of a tinplate plant in hungary broke. the mud, containing highly toxic chemicals, has flooded surrounding farmlands and communities. the event, which may have resulted in deaths, may have caused unforeseen pollution of soil and water. this is compounded by the fact that heavy metals can also be a serious air pollutant. the operator is responsible, but it is unlikely that it will be able to repair the damage alone. the lesson is clear. on the one hand, action at community level is needed to ensure that national authorities are consistently required to comply with legislation that appears to be too strict. secondly, the relevant regulation should be strengthened so that companies have adequate insurance in case of accidents of similar magnitude. until we make progress in these areas, the cost of the damage will be borne by the innocent taxpayers.
i'm sorry, but i'm not sure. i would like to warn my colleagues against thinking that the european union has achieved its objective. it is good that we in nagoya want to be at the forefront of biodiversity conservation, but the european union has not been able to stop the decline of biodiversity. so let us be careful and see what our own duties are. and commissioner potočnik, who comes from a slovenian farming family - i come from a hungarian farming family - i would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is a great contradiction between biodiversity and agricultural regulation. on the one hand, we support farmers to put artificial grasslands for birds, on the other hand, we stipulate that the proportion of trees and bushes in the pre-granting should be one third, and farmers must cut down if there are more trees. this means reducing the habitat of birds and other animals, and the future of the cap will be to reconcile biodiversity and agricultural subsidies. i fully agree with the report that we need to determine the value of environmental assets, including the market value of biodiversity, which is difficult to determine on the surface, but it is very important that farmers are incentivised and rewarded for this in the future, because the market will not do it.
member of the commission. − madam president, first of all, after hearing everything that the honourable members of parliament have said, i should say thank you because i think that the messages and the awareness which they are sharing, not only with me but i hope sharing with the whole european public, are more than clear. i should start by saying that we should hide nothing. we have failed in delivering 2010 biodiversity targets and we are responsible for that and we should do better. there are basically two lines on which we should and can act. one is our european line, the other is the international nagoya line, about which you had more to say. but soon, after nagoya, we will also come with the proposal for the european union strategy on how to deal with this serious question and then of course many of the matters which you today underlined will have to be addressed. it will have to include a baseline, which we currently, finally, have. it will have to have measurable targets, not a lot but a few that are the closest to something we would like to achieve: the best proxies for what we would like to pursue. why a few? because this has to be fundamentally understood, so that we can share the understanding of biodiversity. we have done quite a lot in europe up to now. i am very cautious when we talk about implementation of natura 2000. i think that natura 2000 will still give some advantages in the future but, when we talk about our strategy, i think we have to be ambitious, as we are when we talk about when we are going out, when we talk about international appearances. many of you mentioned financing. i am not underestimating the question of financing, but do not fix your debate only on financing. it is much more than just financing and much more than just fresh money for biodiversity. it is about environmentally harmful subsidies. it is also about private financing. it is about many of the things which you in this house have adopted. illegal logging is a typical example of how we can really help, and finance even, the countries which are exporting timber, also in europe. i think it is extremely important that we understand that. as some of you mentioned, it is truly and fundamentally a moral and ethical question but, for those who do not understand that, it is becoming more than obvious that it is an issue of our quality of life and an issue of our economic success. it is important that this is understood too, because this was a turning point in the climate change debate, if you remember. i think it is important also that governments, not only in europe, also our partners around the world, understand very well how important it is that they also engage their priorities in following the things that we are discussing in this house today. the next question which i would like to mention is access and benefit-sharing (abs). for me, after sitting in new york discussing with practically all our partners, abs will be an important, if not the breakthrough, issue in nagoya. so we should do our utmost to ensure there is a breakthrough there. of course, you can make a difference, but it is not only about you and, after all the discussions which we have had with the member states recently, i can confirm that there is a strong willingness on the part of the member states to have a breakthrough on that point. the next question is something which we will also need to discuss in the future, and how to deal with it is also closely connected with answering some other questions. you know that there were two rio conventions. one was for climate change, the other was for biodiversity and there was also the separate issue of deforestation, an important one. increasingly they are separate and they are developing in parallel; we are increasingly understanding that we should start to reconnect them. many of the issues about mitigation and adaption in climate change have to do with biodiversity. red plus is as much for climate change as for dealing with biodiversity. so let us also prioritise the questions of biodiversity when we set the priorities on how we will use the money which is committed to red plus activities. and, when we talk about millennium development goals, it is the same story. i met and talked with helen clark in new york about how we can cooperate better between the commission and the undp in the future to ensure that these issues are more interconnected. the next issue which some of you underlined, and which i think is the basis of all the issues, is the integration of biodiversity, the mainstreaming of biodiversity in other policies. i fully share the view that if we want to talk about the cap, the fisheries policy, cohesion and other policies, we have to take that angle into account, too. when we talk about the common agricultural policy – which will soon be on your table, you will soon be discussing it – i think we should develop more the concept of the public good. i believe that farmers should be partially repaid for what they do for us: they are providing food and we are grateful for that, but we should also be grateful to them for keeping up biodiversity. this is an important debate which lies ahead of us. nagoya/cancún are pretty much connected stories. it is not only about biodiversity; it is not only about climate change; it is also about the success of multilateralism and governance globally. so it is very important that we achieve success there. all your calls for us to speak with one voice are well heard. we are doing everything possible to make this true in reality and here i would like to thank the belgian presidency for having a very constructive stance on that. the next thing which i would like to mention, and with this i am almost coming to an end, is a remark on euros and dollars. i took it positively but i am a bit afraid that, when we talk about biodiversity and international help, we will talk more about euros than dollars. so, finally, we have to come away from cancún with something which is a success, which we can consider a success and which will be connected with solutions, because there is simply too much at stake. we have responsibility, but i think it is fair to say others also have responsibility. but having parliament firmly behind us is really helpful.
acting president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank all those who have spoken to highlight the importance of biodiversity. that is a very important message that has been conveyed in this debate. i have already touched on many of the aspects mentioned in the introduction. i would like to go into some of the issues in more detail. first of all, the abs. the council is committed to finalising this protocol at cop10, which is important, because it will make a very important contribution to the achievement of all the objectives of the convention on biological diversity. the development and implementation of the abs protocol should be considered as an integral part of the process surrounding the convention on biological diversity. progress has already been made in this area in the recent talks in montreal, but it is true that a number of issues still need to be resolved before cop 10. this will require flexibility from all the negotiating partners, and thus also from within the eu. secondly, as regards the european parliament's motion for a resolution. this resolution addresses the key elements of biodiversity policy: the urgency of action, the economic aspects of ecosystems and biodiversity, the overall mission, vision, goals and indicators for the convention on biological diversity and its strategic plan, as well as the more specific aspects such as abs, synergies between the three rio conventions, etc. these elements are consistent with the positions being expressed within the council in view of the nagoya conference. the conclusions on this will normally be adopted by the environment council on 14 october. as regards the demand for the package and for sectoral integration, including in agriculture and fisheries, i would remind you that on 15 march the council specifically asked the commission to propose a package. i understand from the commissioner's words that this is being worked on very hard and that we can expect it. the council will be asked to adopt the conclusions on biodiversity at its meeting on 14 october, which is next week. these will then serve as a political guide for the negotiations in japan in october. the conclusions are intended to determine the main themes of cop10 and the council's position on them: the revised updated strategic plan of the convention on biological diversity, the negotiations for the protocol on access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from their utilization (abs), the strategy for the mobilisation of resources, including through innovative financing mechanisms, sectoral integration and synergies between the fight against climate change, desertification and policies to promote biodiversity. i want to thank everyone who has stressed the importance of this. i would also like to thank the commissioner for the good cooperation so far and also for the pleasant cooperation we may have in the run-up to and on the spot in nagoya.
i have received motions for resolutions1 tabled in accordance with rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 7 october 2010. 1 see minutes.
the following is a statement by the council and the commission on the social provisions of the treaty of lisbon.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your support. we welcome the fact that, following our resolution on serbia, montenegro and macedonia almost a year ago, we can now take a stand on the visa waiver for albania and bosnia and herzegovina. special recognition is therefore due to the hard work of the rapporteur, tanja fajon, and my colleague, anna maria corazza bildt. visa-free travel in europe is neither a privilege nor a diplomatic gesture. it is based on a mutual commitment that our political objectives cannot be jeopardised by security considerations. i would like to thank the commission and mrs malmström personally for the work they have done to make the visa-free regime for the western balkans sustainable. it gives a particular urgency to the question that we are a few days after the bosnian elections. the election results also show that deep divisions along ethnic lines cannot be resolved in one fell swoop. for the next generations, for young people, visa-free travel offers access to a european perspective, and this european perspective can help to promote reconciliation. that's why we need visa-free travel in this region. the way to create the conditions for living side by side is through the union, and by supporting visa-free travel we are contributing to this. and that is why we should not forget about kosovo, so we must also set a timetable for it as soon as possible.
in writing. 'the european parliament can once again demonstrate its support for the accession of the western balkan countries to the european union. i consider it very significant that, with the granting of visa-free travel to the citizens of albania and bosnia and herzegovina, almost all the inhabitants of the former yugoslavia will soon be able to enjoy the possibility of traveling without authorisation to the european union. neither the granting of visa-free travel nor membership is and cannot be subject to any conditions other than the fulfilment of the criteria. both countries have met the stringent requirements imposed on their domestic and judicial bodies and have demonstrated their willingness and ability to meet the diverse expectations. the on-the-spot checks also convinced the union experts that the security risks could be screened. it is unacceptable that governments' actions are influenced by domestic policy considerations rather than by an unbiased assessment of the fulfilment of the criteria. the granting of visa-free travel is also a signal to the countries concerned that they can overcome obstacles if they are prepared to do so by political agreement. i was pleased to note that in albania and bosnia and herzegovina the political forces were united in their efforts. i sincerely hope that the opportunity of eu membership in the form of tangible results like the present will accelerate their recovery and help to overcome the nationalist, divisive tendencies that are holding them back from joining. "
the division of germany was the most striking symbol of the absurdity and inhumanity of the bipolar world. without german reunification, there would have been no european reunification, and no enlargement in 2004 or 2007. there is no people in europe who has felt the artificial and absurd bifurcation of germany more than the hungarian people. the reunification of the german nation was the beginning of the reunification of europe. with the fall of the berlin wall, the walls of divided europe in the cold war collapsed. as a hungarian, i am particularly proud that the leaders of my country at that time, by a courageous and bold decision, allowed tens of thousands of east german citizens who had fled from the gdr to hungary to cross the iron curtain to austria. they broke the hungarian-gdr treaty, and thus broke the first brick of the berlin wall. gyula horn, then hungarian foreign minister and prime minister németh miklós, carried out a historic act that would not have been possible without mikhail gorbachev's reform efforts.
now that the various policies and directions decided on in the context of the 2020 strategy are being implemented in a more practical way, we must admit that we still know nothing about their financing or financial background. it is no coincidence that, at this time when we are stressing the importance and the need for cohesion policy, we also want to express our views in the budgetary debates that are about to begin on the fact that we are talking about a common european policy whose aim is to strengthen rather than to dismantle. there is no doubt, and this has been said by many, that one of the main priorities is to create new jobs, to increase employment, but we also know that there are structural tensions in europe's labour markets. where there are jobs, there are often no people with the right skills or the right skills, and elsewhere, well-educated people are unemployed because there are no jobs. the european social fund obviously plays a major role in this process. it is the task of these policies to balance these differences and bring them closer together. it's not about big projects. this is about smaller projects, more flexible adaptation. it is clear that while we ourselves accept and support the idea that a uniform policy is needed, that synergies need to be exploited in the field of cohesion policy, i would also like to stress that more flexibility, fewer rules and more transparency are needed in the area of the social fund. in this sense, therefore, the social fund should be subject to special rules, and i particularly welcome the commissioner's statement that he wants to introduce results-oriented evaluation, because the biggest problem very often is precisely that - and it erodes the credibility of these policies - if we do not see what results we achieve by spending money in certain directions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. a strong and effective cohesion policy is, in my view, unthinkable. the political consensus needed to develop and implement this, if you will, without political cohesion, is what i believe the political consensus between the political groups, the political families and perhaps beyond that, between the various european institutions, is aimed at. in this respect, i find unacceptable, i consider unacceptable, the discrepancies that have been made in today's debate about gdp as the number one exclusive indicator of eligibility for regional development aid. i would like to support, in the strongest possible terms, the strong position of mr olbrycht and mrs mazzoni. the commissioner shared my strong view, which i had already expressed in previous parliamentary debates, that gdp may not reflect all the dimensions of development, but it is the most reliable indicator currently known. to make up for any shortcomings and to fully reflect environmental and social considerations at member state level, decision-makers in individual countries can of course turn to alternative indicators, but it is essential for european solidarity to prevail and for member states to catch up effectively that gdp remains the fundamental and exclusive measure of the distribution of resources at eu level.
dear andor and hahn! cohesion policy is the most successful and spectacular public policy of the european union. it is an instrument that the union will need very much in the future. the catch-up of the new member states in central europe and the baltic is far from over, but certain regions in spain, portugal and greece need these resources. but it would be a mistake to think that cohesion policy is just a catch-up policy, as cohesion policy is the most comprehensive integrated investment policy that helps to achieve the objectives of the 2020 strategy. it would be a huge mistake to tear this cohesion policy apart. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the new member states. and i think it is very important, as a member of the committee on agriculture, that there should be much greater coherence and synergy between regional policy and rural development policy in the future.
, in writing. – during its history the esf has always adapted to the current economic priorities of the eu. it is evident that the esf has to adapt itself again, because circumstances have changed. it has to be adapted to the eu2020 strategy, where raising employment is a key goal. it has to adapt to the crisis. the esf is not a crisis management tool per se, but now it has to function during a period of crisis. we should not forget that, even when macroeconomic crises are over, employment levels may remain low. unemployment has risen in europe. some european countries are forced to introduce budget cuts, which threaten jobs, especially in the public sector. the majority of public workers are women, therefore public sector lay-offs threaten women in the first instance. enhancing women’s labour market participation is a key goal for eu2020 and for all reasonable political decision makers – women’s participation is particularly important in order to protect and reshape our social model. therefore we should help those who lose their jobs due to budget cuts. some countries would favour the esf being nationalised to some extent in the next budget. but i strongly believe that the european social fund has to remain an integral part of eu policies.
in writing. when talking about the future of cohesion policy, and in particular its objectives, priorities and structure, it is essential to mention the strategic infrastructure network across the union, which promotes the integration of eu and regional energy markets and the use of renewable energy sources. a very important proportion of eu energy investments is in urban and rural development projects financed by the structural funds. this includes, inter alia, investments in district heating, individual energy efficiency projects, and projects for the development of local and regional energy networks. the use of existing union funds for energy efficiency measures should be improved in the future; and a greater use of structural funds and cohesion fund resources for this purpose should be promoted. the resources for research, development and demonstration in the field of energy should be doubled by 2020 compared to current levels, including a significant increase in the future eu budget allocation for renewable energy, smart grids and energy efficiency in particular, as one of the means to achieve this could be the european union's cohesion and regional policy post-2013.
in writing. the draft empl resolution rightly highlights the need to support smes and the key to creating synergies between the structural funds, as the esf's success story is not without its many flaws and problems, especially in the context of the financial and economic crisis. moreover, the positive potential and impact of the european economic recovery plan, which previously allowed temporary employment of workers with disabilities under the rules of the general block exemption regulation (ec) no 800/2008 to be granted by member states with additional subsidies and compensation subject to a number of conditions, will be reduced in the future. however, the proposed simplification of the esf should not focus primarily on issues related to the management of the funds, but on the actual synergy (cross-financing, accountability) in the planning and implementation by the member states. in addition, efforts should be made to reduce the number of experts without formal qualifications, as unemployment among disadvantaged groups should be reduced. at the same time, expert networks and professional cooperation should be strengthened, and this could include the development of cross-border cooperation, taking into account intra-regional links. last but not least, in response to commissioners hahn and andor, there is also a need to focus more on the issues of resilience and sustainability: reducing the burden on families, reducing the disparities in the social division of labour that are harmful to childbearing, improving accessibility are essential to achieving and ensuring a more active, healthier age.
to amendment no 1, the amendment tabled by 40 members, we would like to add that 'but with its own rules' sounds like this in english. i've already coordinated the oral amendment with the other members, including the one who proposed the amendment.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to go. i am pleased to see that this debate is taking place in the presence of the honourable council and the commissioners. when we were planning the 2010 budget, we asked ourselves how and when we would fund the foreign service. and the answer was, you don't need a resource, because you can do it by redistributing. well, we on the budget committee didn't really believe that. the truth is somewhere in between. the majority of the costs could have been covered by a transfer, but the addition of the two amendments would have resulted in an additional cost of approximately eur 44 million. this additional cost covers about a quarter of the expenditure, and at the same time we have seen that the set-up of the service is still at 10%. obviously, the money that i hope will be voted on tomorrow would cover a little bit more time than it's actually being spent. this would have given rise to, could have given rise to, tasks, such as adjusting the amount. but we decided that it didn't make sense now. it is much more important that this service be set up as soon as possible, that it go forward, because one of the important messages of the lisbon treaty is that we are well visible in the world. at the same time, when we have avoided any delaying action, we have set out expectations, as previous rapporteurs have done. we think geographical proportionality is very important in the setup of the service, but we didn't put in mandatory reserve training, again just to get this whole system going. we also want to make sure that the funds available are used in a time-efficient and economical way, as we are facing cuts everywhere. finally, we want to see very clear cooperation and mutual assistance with the member states' external services, because if this happens in countries where a member state is not present but our european service is present, certain tasks can be carried out. this will also save costs for the member states concerned and will obviously improve the atmosphere of cooperation. mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. i hope that parliament will vote in favour of this budgetary transfer.
the rapporteur is the committee on budgetary control. − on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, i welcome the establishment of the new body, which is one of the most important practical transpositions of the lisbon treaty. the new body needs a budget, of course, but it is equally important to define and comply with budgetary principles, financial rules, because of budgetary and financial accountability. in recent years, our committee has had a debate with dg relex on this, and i would like to emphasise this in particular. it is very important to establish the appropriate organisational and operational rules. it is important to avoid duplication of tasks, functions and resources and to take into account all possibilities for ensuring the effectiveness of expenditure. the new organisation will be effective only if it has a clear and simple organisational structure and resource management. the staff will be drawn from three sources: the eu institutions, the member states and experts from the host country. it is particularly important that the institutions and staff of the member states should be fully equal in this respect, which is why we consider training to be important and it is very important that the selection principle and practice be based on uniform processes and requirements. the committee on budgets will check this annually.
in writing. in the midst of the global economic crisis, in the european year against poverty and social exclusion three days after world food day, it is particularly important that child poverty is given due attention at european level. every six seconds, a child dies of hunger on earth. millions of malnourished children live in europe. the proportion of children living in poverty, in many cases in a cumulative disadvantaged situation, is 19% at eu level, 3% higher than the proportion of the total population. the high level of attention is also supported by the figures and should be given due weight in the eu-wide strategy on children's rights. the current global economic crisis is not only a burden but also an opportunity. it's an opportunity for creative thinking, for a paradigm shift in business, for a paradigm shift in our economic, social, environmental thinking, which is becoming more and more open in our societies. with community engagement, with local initiatives, we can help to reduce child poverty, child malnutrition. in hungary, the recently launched 'every child lives well! initiative' is bringing hot meals to thousands of children every day. while thanks to the initiative launched by the franciscan monk böjte csaba in transylvania, it is possible to provide for the feeding and supervision of nearly 2000 children in 18 boarding houses and 40 day-care centers. i would also like to stress, in agreement with the opinion of the international organisation eurochild, that the fight against child poverty must be seen not only as an economic challenge but also as a question of children's rights.
in writing. – when talking about poverty, we often forget those who are seriously underpaid in their jobs. in this regard, poverty still has a feminine face in europe. the disadvantageous situation of women is structural. they work less, as household work is not acknowledged as legitimate work. if they work on the labour market, they earn less, because of discrimination and segregation. a reminder: all in all, the gender pay gap is still over 17% in europe (meaning that women work 17% more for the same pay men get). and in the end, of course, women also get less pension due to the circumstances described above. is this not profoundly unfair? we can break this vicious cycle by acknowledging that non-paid work is work indeed, by encouraging women to work and gain their economic independence, by attacking the structural causes of labour market segregation, and by paying attention to women's problems when reforming our pension schemes. it may be more expensive today, but in the long run less inequality and less poverty will help balance our budgets as well. tackling women's poverty would be beneficial for all of us - not only for women, but also for men.
in writing. other with regard to the debate on the minimum income, it is important to emphasize that we must not decide about today, tomorrow, but the day after tomorrow. inactivity is more destructive than many of us even realize, you know. but for people with disabilities, it's a daily experience. we don't need to have a single-digit percentage increase in income as a jobless person. we need to increase activity, help at all costs. in addition, research in gerontology and lifestyle should be supported. the union's contribution for the period 2014-2020 is estimated at eur 10000000000. not legalizing addiction, but strengthening it by increasing the masses of dependent and needy citizens. it's also a self-reinforcing stigma that's unsustainable! social benefits are increasingly less able to be generated from public resources (taxes). people with severe disabilities who are in real need, who are so-called helpless, are getting worse and worse: we see more and more examples, for example in the field of invalidity pensions, of widespread abuse, which has led to a deterioration in the quality of care. returning to ageing, the subsistence rate is continuing to rise, and the value of existing social benefits will decline, as there will not be enough workers - the number of workers in europe will continue to decline by the order of millions over the next decade - to maintain social and minimum income levels. this is a prediction of a deterioration in the lot of those who are actually in need, which is unacceptable!
the rapporteur. - mr president, council members, the honourable gentlemen, the honourable officer, the honourable gentleman, the honourable gentleman, the honourable gentleman, the honourable gentleman, the honourable gentleman, the honourable gentleman, the honourable gentleman, the honourable gentleman, the honourable gentleman, the honourable gentleman, the honourable gentleman, the honourable gentleman, the honourable gentleman, the honourable gentleman, the honourable gentleman, the honourable gentleman, the honourable gentleman, the honourable gentleman, the honourable gentleman, the honourable gentleman, the honourable gentleman, the honourable gentleman, the honourable gentleman, the honourable gentleman, the honourable gentleman, the honourable gentleman, the honourable gentleman, the honourable gentleman, the honourable gentleman. my duty is to arrange a budget line for 2010, if possible, to consider a proposal for an amending budget. the commission made a promise years ago to provide fair compensation for banana-producing countries, and we should keep that promise. the only minor problem is that at the time of this decision and notification, the commission had not discussed this with any branch of the budgetary authority at the appropriate level and had not been able to come up with a proposal that would be acceptable to the parties concerned. the budget is 300 million euros, of which 75 million euros would be allocated to the 2010 budget. the question is, how? and here we have a disagreement between the council and parliament after two fruitless trialogs. unfortunately, we have not been able to reconcile our views, although a compromise would be necessary, since these payments would be made to countries in a position to really have a fair need for this compensation. but we could not agree with the council, because we felt that this was a new task, not included in the preliminary draft budget, and we have therefore devised the flexibility instrument. it is designed to solve a problem like this, and it has the right legal framework and the money to mobilize. but the council was of the opinion that, in the present situation, the member states were reluctant to mobilise this instrument, as this would require further payments and national budgets are not in this position. we in parliament, however, have decided that our existing programmes are not in a position to be withdrawn and that a compromise solution has not been found. i therefore regret to say that, with the support of a large majority in the committee on budgets, i must propose to parliament that we ourselves, as parliament, reject the compromise proposal for budgetary amendment no 6 which has just been put before us and which has not been accepted by the council. mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. i should be allowed to speak on behalf of the regional development committee in this debate. allow me to combine these two speeches and say that i would like to pay tribute to the commission for doing what it could do in full respect of the rules and ceilings set out in the 2011 budget. we all know we're underfunded as the european union. the money needed to carry out the tasks should be increased. but we also need to know that we are short of it and we need to do a better job of managing the money that we have. from the point of view of regional development, we were very pained by the fact that the council had also withdrawn or cut the related expenditure. in fact, the biggest cut in payment appropriations in the last 10 years has been in the budget. we're judging this to be inoperable. so what's going to happen after this is that we're going to have a conciliation meeting, where hopefully we'll get the positions aligned, and we'll have a proper budget for the banana farmers. thank you for your attention.
the rapporteur is the committee on regional development. - mr president, i have to go. thank you for the word. the council withdraws 4 billion euros and invokes the economic crisis. what do you do with that money? not the recession. but it is also capable of undermining solidarity between member states, making programmes impossible to implement. mr. president, this is the way. mr. minister, please. it's not worth it. in the 2011 budget, therefore, our committee believes that chapter 1b should return to the commission's proposals - i am referring to the european commission - which were based on member states' forecasts. member states should not play with two opposite solutions. thank you for your kind attention.
mr president, the 2011 eu budget is the first to be prepared under the lisbon treaty, but it is not the first in the age of austerity. the global financial crisis has revealed the deep structural weaknesses of the european development model, based on high taxes, high fiscal redistribution, inflexible labour markets and unnecessarily extended welfare provisions. now it is time to rethink and restructure fiscality, not only at the national level but also at the european one. the 2011 eu budget shows some signs of austerity but does not go far enough in structural change. this is related to the fact that many people think that quantity is quality, namely the bigger the spending, the better its impact on the european economy and society. moreover, they demand additional funds because the lisbon treaty and the europe 2020 strategy imposed new mandates on the community. but there is a fundamental misunderstanding in this concept. the eu budget is small compared to national ones – and rightfully so. it does not need to grow in order to perform its functions. what matters most is the structure of the budget and the effectiveness of spending. sharp focus on innovation, r&d, higher education, selected areas of energy transport, agriculture and rural development will do. our budget is completely dissimilar to national budgets, which have very little discretionary spending. we do have a lot of discretion. the eu budget should be regarded as a capital budget, rather than a current one. it should focus only on investments in the common european future. that is why our group feels strongly that the eu budget does not need to grow. it never substitutes the national budgets representing national sovereignty. there is no need for an eu-wide tax. taxes at the eu level would not substitute, but inevitably supplement, national taxation, increasing further the tax disadvantages of the european area compared to the rest of the world. the ecr says no to bond issuance as well. debt securities imply debt and would open the door to deficits building up debt. we have enough debt at the national level and even more unfunded liabilities. we do not need additional layers of debt which would destroy the future of european youth and make europe’s terminal decline irreversible. the ecr agrees with the priorities of the 2011 budget as stated by the rapporteur – youth, education and mobility – but, if we take these goals seriously, it logically follows that what our young people need is definitely not a greater fiscal burden in the age of adverse demographics, but more solidarity and investment in our common future.
madam president, i do not know what really happened, but i would like to speak as a draftsperson for the committee on industry, research and energy (itre). i am very happy to offer the pse group time because this is a rare case when the european socialists, the itre committee and the committee on budgets unanimously agreed. so i can speak as whatever. the unanimous agreement is there. regarding chapter 1a and chapter 5 on r&d management, we all think that it is just not acceptable to have the cut council introduced compared to the commission draft proposal. cuts are simply not acceptable in the fields of economic recovery and economic stimulus, any policies regarding entrepreneurs and sme policies on the digital agenda, innovation policies, r&d policies, space policies and programmes like iter. the budget has to be in line with the fine words of our treaty and of our policies like eu 2020, the great innovation union, digital access to all, the next generation network, and so forth. our words have to be in line with the numbers provided in the budget. so the budget has to be in line with the challenges of the global world in the 21st century. we can stop europe, but we cannot stop the world developing and there is therefore unanimous agreement in our committee – first, to ask for the budget to be restored to the commission proposal – which was already a compromise because we would have needed more – and then, to find additional resources for the new policies under the lisbon treaty, namely the space policy and iter. the show must go on. we are prepared, in the conciliation procedure, to find a compromise which is best for european citizens living in the 21st century.
the rapporteur. - i'd like to give a banana to those who have borne the burden of the work. first of all, to our senior rapporteurs, the owners of the 2011 budget, but i would also like to give this banana to the council in the hope that it will not only be eaten with pleasure, but will also inspire the right willingness to compromise so that we can finally get over this banana issue. and janusz lewandowski should get a big piece of the banana, because he has presented us with a 2011 budget that is much closer to the thinking of parliament. it's no accident that we spent five years together. thank you, officer. but i also want to thank the speakers who have very clearly outlined the parliament's position. this opinion was not entirely unanimous, but it was a common thread. we want a better, more efficient budget, one in which we don't have to spend months, six months, debating issues like whether or not to give 75 million to compensate banana-producing countries. the point of our debate, i think, is that we believe - as we said in the 2010 budget - that the european budget is a tool for dealing with the crisis, not some kind of cause of it. we should agree on that, and i ask the council to take note that there is a premium on this. this is part of parliament's intention to work with the commission to encourage member states to work more effectively. one that actually gets closer to the goals, where production is increasing, jobs are increasing. in this case, it will be worthwhile to keep the budget of the european union at the appropriate level. thank you for your kind attention. they eat bananas for health.
the commissioner just said that budget policy is in numbers. we know this saying well, but dear good officer, where is it in this material, where are the numbers? these are the ones that are completely missing. then i don't know what we're talking about. this is a mid-term review. i've been told that before. well, we're in the third quarter, and i don't know when we're gonna get to the end of this review. but i'd like to ask you a question. the council, too, and maybe the translation will get to them. in particular, that this review, or whatever you want to call it, be completed this year. there's no point in 2011 still having to think about what we were going to do in 2008. or what we should have done in 2008. i think that he should be the one to set the next budgetary framework, which we have already more or less started. there's a lot of work going on in parliament. i'm guessing the other affiliates, too. and in the process, we need to make bold reforms. this is where the question of own resources came up. it is impossible that we are the only parliament in the world that makes a budget and does not feel the burden of this on the electorate, because we do not take money from the citizens, but national governments are involved. is the sovereignty of the member states to be feared because the european parliament itself takes its own expenditure, the common european expenditure, and sends it to the citizens? i know this is a difficult question. the issue of sovereignty is very important. and one more very important question, mr. president. in particular, we want to see what we spend done in terms of subsidiarity, and what is the responsibility of the member states we do not want to take over here at european level. thank you for your attention.
i have a quick question. what do you think about the different transport sectors, how passenger rights are treated differently? my question is: what is the commissioner's or the commission's vision for the future of a uniform treatment and control of the rights of passengers in the various transport sectors?
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. my fellow members of parliament! in view of the constraints that are also affecting and holding back the hungarian economy, it is certainly welcome that the regulation promotes the consolidation of payment discipline and the predictability of financial processes, thus contributing to improving the situation of financial operators. the amendments tabled, on the one hand, clarify and thereby improve the original proposal, and, on the other hand, in contrast to the original objectives, weaken the deterrent forces contained in the original proposal, particularly on the part of the authorities. in particular, derogation from the 30 days is not allowed for public authorities. background controls shall be applied to ensure that this time limit is respected. the same treatment should be accorded to undertakings and authorities as regards penalties. the basic objective would be immediate payment in order to stimulate the economy and to promote the financial stability of small and medium-sized enterprises. in contrast, there is no provision in the proposal to promote this. large international multinationals, abusing their significant market share and dominance, impose contracts on their domestic partners, often with 90- or 120-day deadlines and possible moral sanctions for failure to comply. however, even if the supplier in a vulnerable position has a clear legal status, he does not dare to apply the penalties, since he would then be excluded from the orders. in order to avoid this, it should be possible to legislate in all cases for the compulsory clearance of costs arising from late payment, with penalties even for the creditor entrepreneur in the event of non-clearance. thank you so much for listening.
my fellow citizens! i welcome mrs weiler's report, which seeks to close the loopholes and establish a fair trade morals in the european union. but let's not get our hopes up. this is a necessary but not sufficient step, since we all know the leverage that dominant companies have. this is a very important, necessary step, but it is not enough. further monitoring is very important as it is well known that small enterprises, including in agriculture, as mentioned in the bové report, are particularly disadvantaged within the food supply chain. they are exposed to the domination of buyers and the big department stores. mrs weiler's report contributes greatly to this, but more effective monitoring and control is needed. thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the ppe group. commissioner georgieva has spoken in great detail about the scale of the industrial disaster, so i do not need to repeat that now and i would like to thank her for the words of appreciation she has just spoken to the defendants. i know you've been to budapest, and you've expressed the same thoughts. this is obviously a boon to those who have been working around the clock for more than a week now to repair the damage. you have just said that the structural funds can be mobilised. i'd like to ask you to explain in your reply, in your closing remarks, what you mean by that in a little more detail. you also just said that they're considering mandatory assistance. i'd like to know a little bit more about what's in it. i think that this tragedy that happened in hungary, but i can safely say that what happened in the last 10 years from spain to france to belgium, is a warning to us that anywhere and anytime, industrial disasters like this can happen again. at the same time, this recent disaster has also brought home to us that the union is, let us say, i think clearly and unequivocally, without means. yeah, he's unable to handle situations like this. you just said that. i think it is time to review the list of dangerous substances and i think red soap should be put back on that list. i also believe that the time has come to require compulsory liability insurance for plants which engage in hazardous activities, which have otherwise been responsible for most of the major industrial disasters of the last 10 years. and i also see that the time has come to create a new financial system that can provide effective help, that can provide real and quick help to the affected countries. we shall soon be submitting our proposals to the commissioner and i hope that she will be as open to them as she was to the opening remarks.
on behalf of the s&d group. first of all, i would like to thank you and all the european citizens who have expressed their sympathy with the disaster in hungary. the tragic event in hungary is also a loss for europe. the aim of today's debate is to turn the eu's solidarity intention into concrete help and to think through the prevention of future environmental disasters. my fellow citizens! i propose that we restructure the solidarity fund. it is appropriate to extend the scope of aid to industrial disasters and to reduce the threshold for the financial damage. this is all the more justified because mrs georgieva told us that we have used only 10% of this fund in the last 10 years. today's debate should also address five far-reaching environmental safety issues. first time around. all reservoirs, whether still in operation or abandoned, are subject to technical and environmental review in accordance with uniformly established eu principles. the jointly agreed technical discipline should be respected by the member states and monitored by the european commission. second of all. industrial units that do not properly store red sludge should be classified as hazardous industrial plants. third time. accelerate the implementation of the mining waste directive in the member states. fourth time. i also proposed in a written question that research programmes on the recycling of red mud should be supported by the union. for the fifth time. during the hungarian eu presidency, the industrial and mining waste dumps in the danube catchment area should be repaired and recultivated under the danube strategy. finally, the only industrial activity in 21st century europe should be one which either makes the waste it produces harmless or recycles it. this will make europe safer and the natural environment more livable.
on behalf of the ecr group. in the last two weeks, the press in hungary has been talking about almost nothing but the responsibility of the company, the hungarian aluminium industry joint stock company. the ceo was arrested before the investigation even started, let alone had a chance to lead to a result. the investigation will determine the company's responsibility, but i think we can take a lesson from it. it is not only the company that has a responsibility, but also the authorities and the municipalities. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. in hungary, the public administration, the central government administration, but also the local governments are not sufficiently prepared to prevent such disaster situations. the administration is extremely fragmented, it's unfunded, and it doesn't have the human or financial resources to prevent these things. i suggest that we draw lessons from this and take it into account in the context of municipal and administrative reform.
my fellow members of parliament! first of all, i would like to put to the agenda a motion asking the officials of the european parliament to discuss important events concerning hungary, if possible, not at such late hours in the evening, but at a time when as many of my colleagues as possible can be present in the chamber. unfortunately, this happened during the slovak language bill trial. well, the colony disaster is the result of what experts say is a reckless, profit-making exploitation and a serious breach of technological discipline. unfortunately, two weeks later, the people responsible are still unknown, and there is little hope that the investigation will reveal the truth. the situation is aggravated by the fact that the victims cannot count on the solidarity fund either, since it is not a natural disaster - and the estimated value of the damage does not exceed the required eur 591 million - but a serious human error. the most outrageous are the calls from commercial banks, telling the owners of the mortgaged properties that they must immediately pay back their debts in one lump sum, given that the residential properties in the area have become completely worthless. and then i think of thomas friedman, the publicist for the new york times magazine, who calls credit a drug, a drug machine, banks drug dealers, and the central bank his godfather in his september 4th editorial. in order to resolve this situation as a matter of urgency, european social cohesion is essential to mitigate the damage caused. we are obliged to give all possible assistance to those affected so that they can restore their normal living conditions as soon as possible. and the penal code must be tightened immediately to prevent similar tragedies in the future, which take lives.
madam president, something absolutely unprecedented happened in this chamber today. as my colleague was talking about a major tragedy in our country as a result of which nine people died, two representatives were laughing provocatively. this is a formal complaint which i would like to raise with you, madam president. please forward it to mr buzek. i would like this case to be properly investigated. mr nigel farage did something which was far less provocative and offensive. he was fined and had to go through disciplinary action. these two women over here, these two representatives, deserve at least as much.
in writing. although the hungarian prime minister said that hungary is a strong enough country to cope with the consequences of such a disaster on its own, i would like to thank the european commission and the member states for the assistance provided and offered so far to cope with the consequences of the disaster. the hungarian disaster also demonstrates the need for stricter community legislation in the field of civil protection. the lisbon treaty provides for this, making disaster prevention a shared responsibility of the community and the member states. the ajka disaster may be the first real test of the environmental liability directive, which came into force in 2007, and will show whether the polluter pays principle can be fully implemented. the legislation, among other things, proposes that companies create a financial reserve to deal with the consequences of possible industrial disasters. i think it is worth considering whether to make it mandatory to set aside such a fund for companies dealing with hazardous materials. i urge the hungarian government to enter into negotiations with the european commission as soon as possible on the transfer of resources for environmental protection and rural development to disaster relief. i welcome the proposal made by the european commission in its communication on the budgetary review published on tuesday to make the use of the solidarity fund available for the future to help deal with the consequences of industrial disasters.
we see that the crisis has undermined the sense of security of many european citizens, and this is a good breeding ground for the strengthening and spread of extremism on the one hand, and on the other hand, for political manifestations that label certain ethnic groups as security threats, or that link minorities, migrants and crime. the french government has started to expel roma from france on ethnic grounds, and that is unacceptable. we have good reason to believe, as many have said, that the collection of ethnic data by the french police, as well as in other eu member states, has not ended. we sincerely hope that the commission will indeed act as guardian of the treaties, of the charter of fundamental rights, if this is confirmed and infringement proceedings are initiated. the police have a big role in maintaining public order, but it's unacceptable that ethnic profiling is part of police practice. this undermines the trust of minorities in democratic institutions and can be a basis for discrimination. the majority of roma people in europe live in extreme poverty and face discrimination alongside poverty. while we have ambitious plans to fight poverty in the 2020 plan, it seems that in many cases we are seeing a fight against the poor, and we must end it.
my fellow members of parliament! the jobbik movement for hungary initiated in 2006 the possibility of marking someone's ethnicity in the criminal register, if necessary, to draw attention to roma criminals. we still hold that position today. at that time, the liberal media said jobbik was an extremist party, and four years later, we see lists emerging in france about the expulsion of the gypsies. and we also see that in the netherlands, they're actually considered a national security risk, and they're also coming up with databases. then we see finland, where the prisons also indicate the gypsy origin of the offender. and let me ask one of the reporters here, a slovak woman who is laughing at the hungarian victims, the following question. i find it extremely hypocritical that he condemns data collection on gypsies, while as a slovak politician he assists a racist language law that punishes those who speak their native language on ethnic grounds.
mr president, yesterday we had a discussion on the budget. it was clear during the debate that the report by the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) had not been received by the relevant services. we checked the issue. the report was completed and sent properly, so probably some mistakes occurred during the procedure. however, it is not important to find who is responsible and what happened exactly. what is most important is that we wish to be sure that our report, which was also our base for the trialogue, and where the biggest difference lay as compared with the council paper, is sent to the council official documents. i therefore brought it with me and deliver it to you, as well as to the council. we kindly ask you to make sure that the proposal by the itre committee, which was adopted unanimously, will arrive at the council in due time. thank you very much for your support in this matter.
as in the great debate on poverty in the european parliament last week, the politicians of the european union are now surprised and saddened to see that the situation of the people of europe is not getting better, but getting worse. poverty, misery, unemployment, homelessness are on the rise. and they wonder about it as if it's at least the result of some unfortunate natural disaster, tsunami, something. no, it's the consequence of the decisions of european politicians. the increase in poverty and misery is a direct result of the neoliberal policies that you have pursued, with the exception of those who have opposed them, and this trend will continue. there will be more misery, more poverty, if you don't choose another set of values. these two reports are like a medical board finding that the therapy that they've been doing with the patient has been harming the patient, making the patient worse, and then as a post-diagnosis therapy, they're saying that we should continue doing what we've been doing, just with a little bit more rigorous monitoring, and punishing the patient if they don't take their medication, for example. it's a conscious choice between values. the european union has always consciously chosen the value system of always asking what is the right decision for money and profit, what is the right decision for multinational companies and banks, and never asking what is the right decision for people and society. he always asked what was good in terms of unlimited fairness and unrestricted competition from a moral standpoint, and never what was good in terms of social justice and solidarity. we need to change that and make good decisions now.
mr president, i ask the forgiveness of the house but the ppe group’s voting list is wrong regarding amendment 967. the right vote is ‘yes’.
in writing. − to those of us from the new member states, the omission of any legally binding commitment to geographic balance in the european external action service is a disappointment. it is true that there have been several political statements promising that the interests of the new member states will be taken into account. however positive a political commitment might be, the absence of a legal provision is regrettable. without legal provision, it is hard to see how voters in the new member states will feel that they own the service. this is why a number of us have had misgivings about giving our full support to the rapkay report.
the rapporteur. - mr president, colleagues, i have to say that i am very sorry. officer and deputy ashton! the european instrument for democracy and human rights is the financial instrument supporting human rights, the rule of law, the protection of democracy and conflict prevention worldwide. the beneficiaries of this financial instrument are mainly non-governmental organisations, non-governmental organisations, individuals fighting for human rights in the most vulnerable situations in third countries. the main advantage of this financial instrument, unlike other geographical instruments, is that the agreement of the government of the beneficiary country is not required for the granting of the aid. so this is a very important role. however, the cost of this instrument, which is linked to the general vat burden, has not been financed by the community budget so far, and the european commission has therefore proposed a technical amendment which would have facilitated the operation and activities of ngos and non-governmental organisations in third countries from this budget. because these organizations are key to the promotion of human rights in these countries, to the establishment of political pluralism, it is very important that we do not make it difficult for organizations that are already in difficulty. we therefore welcome this initiative of the commission and, in agreement with my fellow rapporteur, mrs lochbihler, we fully support it. but that's only one side of the coin. on the other side of the coin is the political significance of the case. the issue of the financial instrument has become part of an interinstitutional struggle that has been going on for a year. the human rights financing instrument is essential for ngos, and it is therefore important that the european parliament be involved in the development of strategic and multiannual framework programmes. we are fighting for the european parliament to have a say in the development of the financial instrument's strategic plans, if it deems it necessary, and to do so by monitoring it annually, not just every seven years, during the financial cycles. that's what the amendments are about, and that's what we're trying to back up with these. the treaty of lisbon has confirmed the right of democratic control of the european parliament, which is in fact the institution of the 'delegated act', as my colleagues have already mentioned, which we consider necessary to promote and apply in the present situation. this case is precisely the first example of the european parliament's role actually increasing after 1 december 2009. after the negotiations and parliamentary consultations that have taken place so far, we have decided together, as rapporteurs for financial instruments, to send the dossier to second reading and to send a strong political message to the institutions, since we must act in the spirit of the treaty of lisbon in the period after it. we believe that these are the instruments that are most needed to enable parliament to exercise its right of democratic control.
the rapporteur. − i thank my colleagues for participating in this debate and for having drawn attention to the same issue that we, the rapporteurs, have been facing in recent times. thank you, commissioner, for your constructive approach to this debate. what we have seen today - and almost all the speakers have confirmed this - is that the european financial instrument for democracy and human rights is very important and perhaps the only instrument of the union which goes to the democratisation of third countries, to the protection of human rights, at a level that can be received directly by ngos. organisations operating at local level can receive it without the need for the support of the third country concerned. it is therefore important, and we consider it very necessary, to facilitate all the technical facilities that will enable these organizations to access their very often vital funding as quickly as possible. at the same time, precisely because it is in such a high priority area that we are talking about this instrument, which is linked to ngos and civil society organisations, it is important that parliament has a say in what strategy, what long-term programme, it is a key issue that parliament sees how these funds are used, and not just at the end of seven-year time frames. we therefore consider it important to emphasise the right of democratic control and participation of parliament. i believe in finding a common solution, especially after this morning's meeting with both high representative ashton and commissioner piebalgs, and i also believe that if there is political will, it will overcome legal obstacles. so that's how we're gonna look at the next few weeks.
mr president, developments in ukraine clearly illustrate the old saying about how power corrupts and absolute power corrupts absolutely. the present ruling élite has been exercising power since the election of president yanukovych and much of what has been done points in the direction of favouring the concentration of power. this is all the more striking if we recall the results of the presidential elections which gave yanukovych a small majority and demonstrated that he had strong support in the south and east of the country only. yet – and this is the striking feature of ukrainian politics currently – there has been a steady movement in the direction of marginalising alternative centres of power. the media, rule of law, the opposition, the autonomy of the state administration have all been affected. what is particularly worrying is that the secret police have acquired the capacity to intervene very extensively in the affairs of the country. all this augurs badly for the future, especially if ukrainians genuinely seek a european future, because the system being built by yanukovych points away from europe, not towards it. the most that can be said for the changes is that they have brought a degree of stability to the country, but increasingly this stability foreshadows stasis and immobility. at the same time, it is true, yanukovych has certainly improved relations with russia, but has thereby accepted a degree of subordination to moscow that is new. whether ukrainian society will accept this transformation in the longer term is an open question.
i'm sorry to have disturbed you, congressman. now for the immediate comments. there are six of them, so we can give them all a voice.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 21 october 2010. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following is the commission statement on the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta).
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all there have been several interventions claiming that the implementation of acta would lead to limiting civil liberties, and several pointed out the control of laptops, or of air passengers at borders for example. the joint declaration of 16 april issued by all the acta parties is quite clear. there is no proposal to force acta participants to require border authorities to search travellers’ baggage or their personal electronic devices for infringing materials. acta is about tackling large-scale illegal activity and pursuing criminal organisations. it is not about limiting civil liberties or harassing consumers. acta will be in line with the current eu regime for enforcement of iprs, which fully respect fundamental rights and freedoms and civil liberties, such as the protection of personal data. one example is the di minimis clause in the 2003 eu customs regulation that exempts travellers from checks if the infringing goods are not part of large-scale traffic. eu customs, frequently confronted with drug trafficking, weapons or people, have neither the time nor the legal basis to look for a couple of pirated songs on an ipod or laptop computer, and we have no intention of changing this. we will not change this, and we will ensure that acta parties can continue to apply such an exemption. however, we cannot impose the de minimis exemption as an absolute obligation, because some member states acting under national rules have kept the authority to carry out certain controls of passengers. reference has been made again to the three-strike law or the hadopi law in france which makes this possible. however, this is a national rule and the european union does not have the authority to make a national state change this. several have also been asking for an impact assessment on fundamental rights, an impact study on privacy and an impact study on the acquis communautaire. i have made several statements in this plenary that there has been no infringement whatsoever of fundamental rights or the acquis communautaire in any way, and i must say that in the three debates that we have already had in this plenary none of you has given an example of problems related to fundamental liberties. nobody has pointed to an infringement of the acquis communautaire. nobody has been able to give an example. if you give us examples, we will look into them. as for negotiating behind closed doors, parliament has been asking for more transparency on the acta negotiations. it is the commission that has made sure that this happens; that you have the text before you that was negotiated in tokyo and that you got it a couple of days after it was finalised. you have it also with the reserves that still exist; three on the part of the european union, three on the part of the united states. you have the result of the negotiations. how can you say that this has happened behind closed doors? the question has been put to the ombudsman. maybe you do not trust me. i am the commission. maybe you do not trust the council. maybe you do not trust your governments. i have detected from a lot of speeches here that your trust in national governments is not very deep, but i think you at least trust the ombudsman. the ombudsman has said very clearly that we can keep documents confidential, and what we have been doing is making a large additional step in the direction of transparency. you would expect that when you do that, you would be applauded. at least there would be some consideration for the fact, but some of you simply continue to say that we negotiate behind closed doors and that there is no transparency. so what is the use in making an effort to have more transparency if afterwards you still continue to say that there is no transparency? maybe i would be better investing my time in something else. as regards the possibility of the european commission agreeing on a final text: in the lisbon treaty, there are in fact very clear rules on how international agreements are negotiated, by whom and how they are concluded and ratified, including the important role of the european parliament. there are also clear rules in the framework agreement as to how parliament must be informed and heard during the negotiating process. i think we have respected these rules scrupulously. it is the commission’s prerogative, as a negotiator, to determine the point at which negotiations are technically finalised and at which the agreement can be initialled. the agreement is not yet initialled and you have the possibility tonight to make your remarks before we even do the initialling and before we even decide to initial the agreement as such. we have not yet made a decision in the commission on what we are actually going to do, because we still have a couple of reserves that we want to settle with the united states before making up our minds. the initialling of the agreement is part of the commission’s prerogatives and it does not definitely bind the union. the agreement will become definitive once the european parliament has given its consent. so let us respect the treaty and let us respect the framework agreements. in the meantime we will continue to inform and engage with you as stipulated in the framework agreement. by the way, according to the treaty, it is the council which authorises the signature of the agreements, but parliament always has the last word. it has to ratify this agreement and if consent is refused, there is simply no agreement at all. so be a little bit patient. there is no initialling yet. once there is initialling, you have the translation, you have the check by the lawyer-linguists, and then it comes to the council for signature and to parliament for ratification. so no decision whatsoever has been taken at this moment in time, and you have another possibility tonight to make known all the comments that you have on your mind. some have also been asking how the eu would benefit by entering into such an agreement if it will go no further than its current laws and if, furthermore, other countries like the us also claim that it will not change domestic law. this is not about substantive law. this agreement is about the enforcement of existing law, and that is why i have repeatedly stipulated that we are not going to change the acquis communautaire. the acquis communautaire is about substantive law and we are not changing that. an international treaty that would adopt standards similar to those of the eu, but also to those already in place in countries like the us or japan, would still be a most valuable contribution to the current prevailing international standard as defined by the wto trips agreement. our goal is to promote acta standards to key emerging partners, namely through our future trade agreements but also in multilateral venues. that being said, several acta parties have taken the momentum created by the acta negotiations to revise their domestic legislation along the agreed lines. as far as i am aware, for instance, both japan and canada are in the process of reviewing their internet enforcement regimes. moreover, it is often overlooked that acta is not only about improved legal standards. it is also about cooperation between enforcement authorities, the adoption of best practices or the better coordination of technical assistance. although the eu has had very successful cooperation with the us in these areas for the last four to five years, we believe that acta can also improve those important aspects of the fight against ipr infringements. we consider that the us enforcement system is generally effective and efficient in the protection of certain intellectual property rights. the commission has stressed that acta is not a disguised means to circumvent their domestic legislative process and to devise their current laws and so has parliament. it is understandable that us officials stress the same line. let me add that the principle of cooperation between rightholders is already in article 15 of the e-commerce directive since 2003, so this is not a new concept. it is in the e-commerce directive and we are simply referring to that. we are referring to the existing eu law. let me further say that what is often overlooked in the debate on acta are the number of jobs of eu citizens that relate to intellectual property rights and we often discuss jobs on all sides of the house. millions of jobs in europe depend on respect for intellectual property rights. counterfeiting is a serious attack on european industry and on the european economy and on european innovation, because we are an innovation-based economy. what we are really talking about is jobs. and i must say that i am a little bit surprised that in the three discussions that we have now had in this plenary, this has never in fact been mentioned. this reference to jobs has never been made. the references that are made are to fundamental rights and i am very sensitive to that, but without any confirmative example. the reference is made to controls at the borders where it is clear that acta adds nothing to what already exists. there is a reference to privacy and i see no reason why privacy would be under attack. there are references to a kind of nebulous liberty and liberties that you think are under attack, but you do not give any examples of that. on the other hand, what is very clear and what is documented in all kinds of impact studies that have already been done by the way by the commission, on all kinds of items, is that a lot of our jobs are linked to intellectual property rights and that is one of the reasons we attach such importance to that topic. i am a little bit surprised that this is very rarely mentioned by parliament.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next part-session. written statements (rule 149)
please, this cannot go on. this is not a vote. we would like to have your comments on the next report, the estrella report.
god bless your children. with this blessing, i suspend the sitting.
mr president, i would like to welcome the transatlantic economic council on 15 december, and especially its discussion of innovation, the digital agenda and energy technologies. in the last couple of years we have seen how difficult it is to harmonise existing legislation and even approaches on moderated industries and services. this is therefore a great opportunity to shape our legislation in these new fields where there is no legislation as yet. these new fields are precisely what we are talking about; new challenges, like ageing society or climate change, require further development in the legislation for the enabling technologies. finally, commissioner, it is high time to talk about energy security and think about the transatlantic energy council for the future. i wish you good luck for your meeting on 15 december.
in writing. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work. the report stresses the importance of its adoption on the eve of the astana review conference, thus sending a message to the osce decision-makers. i am pleased that my amendments have included references to the protection of national minorities, which are an integral part of the osce's overall security concept and its human dimension, and have brought attention to the role of the osce high commissioner for national minorities. the high commissioner has a primary role and responsibility to promote the peaceful coexistence of traditional national minorities and to prevent possible minority and ethnic conflicts. it is also important to emphasise the role of the commissioner-general in order to ensure that his proposals and opinions are given due weight by the parties concerned, in the absence of any means of enforcement.
in writing. is the eu really capable of receiving intelligence from the us? the motion for a resolution on passenger name record (pnr) is welcome as it seeks to promote an agreement between the united states of america and the european union that balances security and data protection. it left me with a sense of loss. i agree with mrs reding, who stresses the culture of reciprocity, and i ask the question: if we really believe that it is important to exchange information reciprocally, that is, not only to give but also to receive information from the united states that is relevant to counter-terrorism, then it is not enough to simply submit a wish list to the united states, but in practice we must also create or appoint an eu body that is able to receive and process intelligence from the united states and at the same time provide uniform access to information for the member states. this problem was already raised in connection with the swift convention, which records the transfer of bank transaction data, but has not been resolved since. it would have been fortunate if the motion had also given a strong impetus to this imminent task.
member of the commission. - mr president, thank you for your message. i shall try, without ambition, to answer each one precisely; we'll have plenty of chances to meet again. i will begin my answer by quoting the first speaker, mr andreas schwab, who recalled the initial ambition we must reinvigorate, to which we must remain faithful, namely the social market economy. he added, as i think we all like these three words: social market economy; it is important and naturally the lisbon treaty uses these three words, adding the ambition of very strong competitiveness. it is precisely this, ladies and gentlemen, that is the ambition behind the single market act, a highly competitive social market economy, and to achieve this, our conviction, and mine in particular, is that - i repeat - for competitiveness and growth, every citizen is needed, every company is needed, every community is needed. it can't fall from the sky; even though we have laws to build, frameworks to build, we need citizens, businesses, communities to take ownership of the opportunities and opportunities of this big market. that's the ambition. and naturally, i say to mr schwab, as i say to many of you, that at the end of this debate we will certainly have to set priorities that are bigger or more precise than those we have been able to set ourselves, even though we have already identified 29 or 30 of the top 50 priorities. i would remind you that there were many more ideas in the report by mario monti. but i would also like to agree with what mr creutzmann or mrs corazza bildt have said, that we must be aware, in a way echoing my analysis at the beginning of my speech, of what is happening in many of our countries as a result of the crisis, as a result of misunderstanding, as a result of the question 'what does the market bring us?' to which the answer is 'not much'. this creates a feeling of fear, of fear, of incomprehension, and behind all this we see the rise of populism and protectionism. the first victim of protectionism would be the single market. that is why we must, through action, dynamism and initiatives, oppose these attempts or temptations to protectionism. president harbour said that this was a new commitment. in my hearing, mr president, on 13 january, i remember specifically saying that during the five years we were going to spend together, i would try to reconcile with other colleagues - because i am not the only commissioner, there are probably fifteen or sixteen commissioners to inherit a greater or lesser share of the legislation - 1 500 texts that have to be lived and lived intelligently on the market. 1,500 words! but i said, mr president harbour, that i intended to work towards reconciling citizens and businesses with this large market, and you are right to stress the chance we can give ourselves with this debate and with proposals from the commission on a global or holistic action plan, to use the encouraging words of louis grech. mr harbour spoke of the growth of competitiveness. you will find in this single market act many concrete proposals that we will be working on in the legal and tax environment for companies and, in particular, for the smallest ones, the revision of the accounting guidelines in 2011, a common consolidated corporate tax base - my colleague semeta is working on this - new strategies for vat, the interconnection of company registers. these are a number of concrete proposals to facilitate the regulatory, fiscal and financial environment for small and mediumsized enterprises, and to these should be added the digital agenda on which i am working with my colleague nellie kroes, who is working very hard. retail trade and many other ideas that mrs handzlik mentioned earlier. i would like to say a few words about the social dimension, which i am also interested in. mr triantaphyllides, mr hughes, mrs gebhardt and mrs turunen, you mentioned them at the very beginning of your discussion. we have had discussions on this issue, mrs turunen, and we have taken positions which are not necessarily those which you read in the newspapers. i think that such a debate within the college is normal. the opposite would be abnormal. we are 27 people with different sensibilities, traditions and nationalities, and by working together we are in solidarity with these proposals. we are working to find the centre of gravity of the general european interest for proposals which are then discussed here in parliament and in the council of ministers, to be completed or improved. we have therefore had discussions, and this is normal, to find the right balance between the economic freedoms of the treaty, free movement and the legitimate freedoms and rights of the social partners, particularly in the field of collective action. i think it is legitimate for employees as well as companies to have a clear and safe framework in which to work. this is the spirit which will guide the commission's action. we will ensure, on the basis of the new strategy for the implementation of the charter of fundamental rights, that the rights guaranteed by the charter, including the right to take collective action, are taken into account. the commission will implement the horizontal social clause in article 9 of the treaty to the letter by carrying out a thorough prior analysis of the social impact of all these legislative proposals on the single market. in any case, i remain in favour of inserting, where necessary, a provision specifying how collective rights will be guaranteed in the context of the new legislation. in other words, the need for such a clause will have to be assessed on a case-by-case basis. this is something we will be discussing with you in the coming months, if possible to improve the commission's proposals further. this will also be the case, mrs vergnaud, mrs auconie, of this quality framework to which president barroso has committed himself on services of general interest. i would also like to say to mr louis grech that the consumer proposals will have to be completed - we are working on this with mr dalli. you are right, mr grech, to warn against the fragility of the internal market, nothing is definitive. that is why we need this appropriation, this support from the citizens, to consolidate in a sustainable way this large market, which is an opportunity, which must be a space of opportunity much more than a space of constraint. mrs gebhardt or mr tarabella, you mentioned class actions. we will not let this matter pass. this is a matter of real exploratory work, as has been shown by a number of debates here and also in the commission. my three colleagues, mr dalli, mrs reding and mr almunia, are working on this and will draw, at the appropriate time, as soon as possible, the conclusions of the consultation we have just launched on the establishment of a class action. i would also like to say to mrs comi that i agree with her on the link we have to find between the single market act and mr tajani's communication on industrial policy. we are working together on these, particularly on the issues of standardisation and standardization. mr salvini has mentioned the regions and his own in particular, but i would like to express my conviction that the debate we are starting here, as is normal, must go down with you, in the regions. i will send this document in the 23 languages of the union to each of the national parliamentarians in each of your countries. we will send it to the regions, to the trade unions, to the professional and economic organisations, so that this debate is as decentralised as possible. in listening to mr salvini, i also thought of a major commitment made by president delors at the time, at the very moment of the creation of the single market, which was the cohesion policy, to which i remain permanently attached, to avoid territorial divisions in this great market. so, things are going together. mrs róża thun has mentioned this debate, she is attached to it, in particular the idea of the forum which we owe to her, and we will, every year, animate this forum on the internal market, update the top twenty, that is to say the twenty concrete progresses. i hope that we will not have the same ones for five years, that this will change and that we will be able to eliminate some of them, make progress, but, in any case, we will be hosting this forum. i would also like to echo mr abad's proposals on the external dimension. we must be strong in ourselves and strong to go on conquering other markets, to meet other needs in the rest of the world, without naivety, with concern for openness and reciprocity. my colleague, mr de gucht, said some very strong things yesterday, and i agree with him, about the need for reciprocity with the major regions, the major partner countries of the european union. finally, a word to echo what mr kožušník said earlier, calling for courage. yes, mr kožušník, i will conduct this debate with all the strength i am capable of, but i cannot conduct it alone, everywhere, in all countries. tomorrow, in your country, since we will be in prague together, but i will take it as far as i can in all the countries. we can't do this alone, it's a team effort. the 13 commissioners who will commit themselves in february to delivering these proposals will also be taking part and all the others will join us. parliament, the regions, the economic and social partners and national parliamentarians must be involved in this debate. this document, ladies and gentlemen, is not for taking or leaving. it's perfect. we are in this frame of mind to improve it, to prioritise it and above all to deliver it with you because it is urgent to re-create growth and competitiveness with citizens and businesses.
i'll close this discussion.
the following point is taken from the debate on the oral question to the council on innovation partnerships, which was tabled by ms judith a. merkies, s&d, mr paul rübig, epp, mr jorgo chatzimarkakis, alde, mr philippe lamberts and mr reinhard bütikofer, verts/ale, mr evžen tošenovský, ecr and ms marisa matias, gue/ngl (o-0158/2010 - b7-0560/2010).
president of the council. - mr president, i would like to thank parliament very much for its interest in this innovation issue. this support is really essential to implement this innovation plan without delay and in an urgent manner, both to better respond to the internal challenge and to improve our external competitiveness. i think the presidency has worked very quickly, since the commission's proposal was tabled on 6 october and our conclusions are being prepared for our council meeting on 26 november. everyone is aware that research and innovation are essential to overcome the crisis. as regards the choice of partnerships, i stressed the importance of the first theme as a pilot project which is intended to establish the feasibility of the model and i think that this first pilot project is really likely to bring about the accession of the populations in europe as was said earlier. as regards the other possible subjects, the commission has mentioned a dozen others and the mood in the council is really to stress the importance of a bottom-up and inclusive approach with a very clear and very firm will on the part of the council not to create duplicate jobs or layers of difficulties or additional programmes. no, you can't! that would be contrary to our objective of simplification. as regards the budgetary problem, we know that research budgets are under pressure and the north-south gap, which was highlighted earlier, and excellence, in my view, must be a goal for all. this must be taken into account in the synergies between european instruments, and in particular between the framework programme and the structural funds. finally, we in the council are obviously very attentive to the need to provide more support for small and mediumsized enterprises. they did not have sufficient access to the previous framework programme and that is why we are working on simplification and easier access to finance and framework conditions for small and mediumsized enterprises.
i have received seven motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 11 november 2010.
the next item is the council statement on the strengthening of the osce and the role of the european union.
mr. president, i have to go. i congratulate you on your initiative, because we all know that the european union is the most important and influential organisation in europe. at the same time, in many areas, the experience of the osce and the council of europe is such that, if we add the weight of the union, for example with the experience of the osce in dealing with interethnic conflicts, we can very strongly strengthen humanitarian security in the european union. what is the added value of the osce? i have already mentioned that in interethnic conflicts, by having an osce high commissioner for minorities, who mediates between the majority and the minority, and who has been instrumental in resolving many interethnic conflicts, and we know that the european union has no system for protecting minorities. the word 'minorities' has just been introduced in the preamble to the lisbon treaty, and when my colleagues here mentioned frozen conflicts, 90% of those conflicts were inter-ethnic. in other words, the union must build on this experience. it should be based, among other things, on the fact that the osce has a very large number of programmes in the roma field. i would urge the commission to take these into account and to take account of the osce experience in this area when preparing the overall framework document on the roma strategy. but it is also necessary to take account of the 1992 copenhagen declaration of the osce, which laid down a rule for minority autonomy that is still valid today. and finally, the freedom of the press. if i listen to the osce official, the osce official has much more courage to criticise the eu member states when they restrict media freedom than the commission officials. that is why i support the institutionalisation of the system of relations between the union and the osce, because it will further strengthen the union, the peace of the union, and its humanitarian security. thank you for your attention.
thank you for your time, mr. president. my fellow members of parliament! the visa system is an effective tool to prevent illegal entry and residence in the european union. when deciding which third country nationals are subject to visa requirements, we need to look at the situation of each country individually, taking into account illegal immigration, public policy and security issues, the european union's external relations, coherence within the region and, of course, the principle of reciprocity. the evaluation mechanism should operate in such a way that for all countries which have made a step back from the abovementioned criteria or which have introduced a visa requirement for nationals of one or more member states, the visa requirement should be reinstated immediately. the immigration and security implications of the lifting of visa restrictions in different regions, as practice shows, unfortunately always have to be dealt with by member states themselves at a later stage. i think this is a matter of security policy, not some gift that we can just hand over to the applicant countries. that is why i think it is necessary to ask all countries for security guarantees before they give their citizens a green light to enter the european union without a visa.
i too welcome the fact that the question of the visa-free regime for taiwan has been put on the agenda of this parliament. i think we're paying off our debt. similarly important partners of the european union have been granted and continue to enjoy visa-free travel. taiwan is the fourth most important trading partner of the european union in asia and is approximately as important to taiwan and the european union in the return journey. we expect that the visa waiver will further strengthen these already very close relations. we know that there is close cooperation not only in economic and commercial fields, but also in research, technological development, education and culture, and with visa-free travel we can always expect that these areas will also be strengthened. the condition we have set for the european union to have visa-free travel for all 27 member states is going to happen this year, so cyprus, bulgaria and romania will also be granted visa-free travel, and i think that's very important. i also want to emphasize that the changes in taiwan in the last 50-60 years are very important. taiwan has built a democratic institutional system and has gone from a poor country to an extremely strong economic country, so we certainly don't have to worry about, as many have mentioned, any pressure from illegal immigration that this visa-free regime would bring. we can have a lot more positive expectations about this.
in writing. my colleagues and i yesterday adopted by an overwhelming majority the resolution tabled by mrs maria da graça carvalho on simplifying the rules on the financing of the research framework programmes. the resolution is a step in the right direction, but more decisive action is needed. our current regulatory system requires a degree of bureaucratic preparedness that excludes it initiatives, smes and smaller research institutions from the pool of actors that can attract resources. so instead of the best researchers getting the grants, the best accountants get the grants. financial control is currently unable to manage almost any risk, which is unsustainable when it comes to investments in research and development, often with unknown outcomes. and risk should be managed, not excluded. there are appropriate regulatory solutions for this, and they must be strictly adhered to. but regulations that are structurally incompatible with the nature of research need to be reformed. another equally serious shortcoming in the allocation of fp7 funds is geographical asymmetry. researchers from the new member states have little chance of winning grants compared to those from the old member states. as long as the european union's research framework programme aims to give all of europe's talents the opportunity to excel, it cannot afford such a distinction in its implementation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, my colleagues! the european court of auditors has done a good job in preparing its report on the audit of the union's budget for 2009 and the work of mr caldeira and the members of the european court of auditors should be acknowledged. i agree with those who say that the report clearly and unequivocally shows that the trend in the use of eu funds is improving and the error rate is decreasing overall. at the same time, we must draw clear and unequivocal conclusions from the report as to what we have to do here in parliament, in the commission and in the other institutions of the union. the reduction in the error rate means nothing less than that the european court of auditors says that the use of billions of euros of eu funds may give rise to suspicion of wrongdoing, irregularity or even criminal activity. all of which means action. i would like to emphasise that i consider it extremely important that in the coming period the european court of auditors should show, by country, the extent to which the country is in error in the use of eu funds and the quality of the control mechanism in that country. this can help to further reduce the error rate.
madam president! it is a great achievement that the rapporteur of the parliament and the commissioner have managed to get the council to keep this money in reserve. this is a very important, significant event from our perspective. we hope that we will be able to extend this to other chapters of the budget later on. equally important, we have managed to spend this money on its original purpose, but primarily through small and medium-sized enterprises, through local authorities, on projects that directly affect the population. this is a very, very important step forward. it is rarely possible for the european institutional system to reach the public or smes directly. it is therefore very important that we can successfully carry out these projects by 2014 and it would be very important to examine the efficiency in 2014 so that the efficiency of this institutional system can also be improved. congratulations to the reporter, and good luck spending the money.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! last year, i myself welcomed the fact that the eu's economic recovery package, which was presented at that time, allocated almost 4 billion euros to energy development. however, i pointed out that the central and eastern european region, which is the most vulnerable in terms of energy security, was neglected by the aid package and that energy efficiency improvements were also excluded from the aid. it is precisely through energy efficiency investments that the main objective of the package, namely the rapid and efficient creation of jobs, could have been most easily achieved. i am glad that the new proposal is devoting resources to this area which have not yet been used. investments in renewable and energy efficiency are not only one of the main means of achieving the 20-20-20 targets, but also increase security of supply and competitiveness. these projects are already delivering spectacular results in the short term, creating new jobs in a geographically diversified way and effectively stimulating economic operators. the €146 million in the proposal for spending on renewable and energy efficiency investments is a good start, but it is also a small amount, even at member state level. we are pleased that the energy 2020 strategy, which the commission published yesterday, also identifies the achievement of an energy-efficient europe as one of its top priorities. we are confident that the strategic commitment to energy efficiency will be reflected in the allocation of additional resources.
the crisis in the livestock sector has many causes. those who say that one of the reasons for this is unfair competition caused by imports and those who talk about the dangers of the mercosur negotiations are right. i'd like to talk about the rise in grain prices. it was foreseeable that cereal prices would rise, as i have said many times here in the european parliament. the european commission has done nothing about it. one of the reasons is the dismantling of the intervention, which was a serious mistake. it should be noted that the world grain trade is concentrated in fewer and fewer companies. this is also the case in many member states of the european union. the european union has given up on having a safety net, which will only increase speculation in the future. fluctuating cereal prices cause losses not only to cereal producers but also to livestock farmers and consumers. but beyond that, the cost of this is borne by european taxpayers. remember that the european union sold its 2004-2005 intervention stocks at a huge profit. cereal prices have been low in recent times. if the european union had intervened then, they could now sell the grain at huge profits, helping the livestock farmers too. but we don't have those stocks, and that's not only bad for producers and consumers, but it also deprives the european union of helping hungry countries like pakistan.
mr cioloş's efforts to ensure that the european union finally develops an adequate defence mechanism against the global volatility of food prices should be fully supported. second of all. the high price of cereals and feed points to the shortage of protein in the european union, which mr häusling will report on. third time. the current livestock crisis has also been contributed by the fact that the cap system is distorted, over-subsidising cereals and failing to support pigs, poultry and livestock in general. fourth time. within product lines, farmers are at a disadvantage to processors, to traders. and a fifth. we've forced farmers to invest in environmental protection at an unreasonable rate. this is particularly serious in the new member states. that needs to be addressed, that needs to be remedied.
first of all, i'd like to thank the reporter who did a great job. as the european parliament is the primary institution through which the european central bank is accountable to the european citizens, it is a great pleasure for president trichet to be attending this plenary session and to be regularly engaged in a monetary dialogue with the econ committee. the financial economy is global in nature. the crisis is global. this is why the response to the crisis must be global. we cannot ignore the fact that the economic and financial problems of the member states are already having an impact on the euro as a whole. i agree with the reporter again. unfortunately, the emu did not respect all the principles of the stability and growth pact and called on the member states to take account of them. that's why we're talking about sovereign debt growth, and that's why we have a new wave of crisis, which is the sovereign debt crisis. i am confident that the ecb's independence and accountability issues will be resolved in a reassuring manner and that, together with a reform programme to achieve a successful economic union, it will be able to strengthen the european union and the euro area within it. i am confident that we can learn from the crisis and our mistakes, and the crisis will create opportunities for us.
my colleagues, honourable members of the house. i believe that the european parliament should not be silent on the 95th anniversary of the armenian genocide in turkey. in line with its resolution of 18 june 1987, the european parliament must remember the massacres of the past, which claimed the lives of one and a half, two and a half million innocent civilians, and condemn without reservation, on the same footing as the holocaust and the communist genocides, the mass crimes against humanity committed by the ottoman empire in 1915 with the aim of exterminating the armenian minority and the christian community. so far, a total of 22 states have recognized the historical fact of the anti-armenian holocaust. it is painful that the written statement of this year by mr morten messerschmidt has not received the necessary support. i hereby propose that president jerzy buzek initiate the unanimous recognition of the armenian genocide by the eu member states, the criminalization of denial of the act and the mandatory inclusion of the matter in the accession negotiations with turkey.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the house. the first and most important thing we need to clarify is whether we consider it important for civilians and military forces to cooperate properly, and to this, for me personally and for my party, the movement for a better hungary, the answer is clearly that yes, we consider it important for civilians and military forces to cooperate. well, in hungary, we had a very good example of this, the hungarian guard, which was created in 2007 and was able to cooperate well with the military forces, whether in flood protection, or in helping the victims of the red sands disaster, whether in terms of blood donation, or in terms of bread distribution, so it was able to act positively in social issues. now, you may ask, what kind of award did they receive, a state medal, perhaps a commendation? they got nothing, the hungarian guard was disbanded by the hungarian government in a completely incomprehensible way, instead of thanking these people for their sacrifice. so, to begin to cooperate with civilian and military forces, it's important to recognize the individuals who participate in organizations like the hungarian guard. people who want to participate in loving their country, their nation, in protecting their environment, those people should be allowed to work and be respected members of society.
i want a very, very short answer. what my colleague is saying is simply a lie. neither the movement for the right for hungary nor the hungarian guard can be traced by anyone has never committed any crime, has never broken the law, so this is simply part of the neoliberal political propaganda that the hungarian guard and jobbik are trying to portray in a bad light. we have never run into any laws and we intend to continue to act on the basis of legality.
my fellow members of the house of representatives! i think that everyone could easily answer the question of which is the large group of people who have practically no or minimal participation in decisions, but who bear the consequences of political, economic, financial decisions to a very serious degree. yes, these are women, ladies and gentlemen, and not just in relation to armed conflict, which is the subject of our sitting today, but in relation to the economy, because it is women who have to put food on the table for their families, it is women who suffer poverty along with their children to a very significant degree. that's the main message for me from this un declaration, that women should be given a much larger role in decision-making, not just as victims, but as shapers of their own destiny. how are women affected by armed conflict? consider the example of gaza. women are still nursing, caring for the wounded that resulted from the brutality of the israeli state, the wounds that they nursed, caring for the children who have been disabled ever since, they are suffering significantly, to a great extent, the impact of the bombing of women, the destruction of infrastructure, the bombing of roads, the bombing of schools. let us think of this when we list the pain suffered by women in armed conflict.
in writing. there are many reasons why we cannot end subsidies so quickly, and i am thinking in particular of the social and economic consequences at regional level. it is important that mine closure aid is spent in the right way: by ensuring that the workers concerned are re-trained and redirected to other sectors of the labour market. it's important to have proper environmental rehabilitation. without these, it fears that the union will save less money on the aid that is being withdrawn than it needs to spend on mitigating the damage. it is worth considering whether it is even worthwhile to close coal mines if the only result is that domestic coal is replaced by coal imported from outside the common market by the remaining power plants. is it worth shutting down coal plants, one of the cheapest sources of electricity, when the world is beginning to see the warning signs of energy shortages? we also need to consider the union's growing energy demand and its role in energy security. we cannot allow the vrtesi power plant in hungary to go down without a thorough, detailed plan and the closure of plants like the lion's mine. these plans should address the situation of workers, environmental rehabilitation and demonstrate through well-founded impact studies that closure is the best and inevitable option for reducing emissions. the green growth agenda must not entail measures that cause serious economic and social problems.
mr president, i wonder whether the house would agree that, constitutionally speaking, there is another interpretation of the whole idea of separation of powers and checks and balances? in the international arena and on the european political scene, we cannot simply transfer the national model of separation of powers and checks and balances. the way i see it – and i wonder whether colleagues would agree with me – is that, in a system of separation of powers and checks and balances, the council actually represents nation states, and whatever remains after the lisbon treaty of the sovereignty and independence of nation states. it acts on behalf of nations, whose governments are elected. in european democracies, governments are elected via a democratic, electoral system. on behalf of their nations and their peoples, they exercise a check and counterbalance the power of parliament. would the house not agree that there is another interpretation of checks and balances?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to reassure mr cohn-bendit that we understand what it takes not to have a budget. contrary to what many people may think, the ecr group would be delighted to see an agreement between the two arms of the budgetary authority. we feel that it is a shame not to have a budget after all these arduous conciliation talks, because the 500 million taxpayers in europe do not understand why these two distinguished arms of the budgetary authority cannot reach an agreement in the lisbon treaty’s very first year of application. i think the responsibility lies with both sides. parliament does not have to force governments to enter into political commitments that they are unfortunately unable or – for whatever reason – unwilling to make at this point in the midst of a crisis. nor does parliament have to enforce these commitments over a longer period of time. on the other hand, i can also say that the council has its fair share of responsibility, because a week ago, when we were negotiating in the conciliation, not a single ambassador bothered to make any statement explaining the views of his or her own government. therefore it was a kind of dialogue between two sides which were not even stating their own proposals. the commission is preparing a new draft based on the 2.91% growth figure. at this point i should like to acknowledge and express my appreciation for the tremendous work commissioner lewandowski is doing in that respect. we can reach a compromise if we can agree to use flexibility – which is not a good use of terminology, by the way, because we should be using ‘reserve’ – as part of the interinstitutional agreement for the remaining three years to finance iter and a few other key projects. at the same time, parliament could decide not to force any political declaration on the council which is unacceptable to several key governments at this time. that is how we can reach a compromise. i think mr wathelet is working very hard on this. i can only encourage you to pursue this, mr wathelet, because it will be an even bigger shame if we cannot reach an agreement before the end of this year.
ladies and gentlemen! is this a discussion about money, power? no, you can't. the engine of european development is stalled. the revenue side of the budget has been waiting for reform for years. the lisbon treaty said that the revenue should be provided from own resources. well, why not? why can't we negotiate this? for years, experts have said that the european budget is inflexible, and that the european union is a lame duck. then why don't we make a flexible budget? we cannot react in a rigid way, we cannot react in a rigid way to the challenges of a rapidly changing world, but we cannot also ignore the european principles that disagreements must be resolved through open debate and compromise. it is unacceptable that there are states which refuse to negotiate. this is the end of the european spirit. we remain open to negotiation, and responsibility is non-negotiable. some say that political issues should not be linked to budgetary issues. oh, please. the whole story of the european union is about that! here, have a little study. we are here representing citizens and we cannot look them in the eye by repeating beautiful bluffs: the 2020 programme, the lisbon programme and no means to implement it. this can't go on! it is not the council that is debating parliament! they are incapable of understanding the spirit of the times and are not in a position to debate those who want a functioning europe.
mr. president, i have to go. for the last ten years, we have been telling the european citizens that we need a european treaty, and that is what the countries have ratified. for the last ten years, we have been telling citizens that research and development can be better managed, better financed, at the european union level. we said that european space policy could be better achieved at eu level, that energy research and the fight against climate change could be better solved within the european union than at the level of the member states. when we believed that, we confessed, we thought we were telling the truth. if you say "a", say "b". if we are to believe what we have been saying for the last ten years, we must create budgetary resources, the first way is through the flexibility factor, the second way is through the creation of parliament's own resources, the european union's own resources. ceterum censeo, the european union is needed.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president pittella, mr president barroso, and the house! europe must overcome the crisis! europe's economy must be based on work. the european union must emerge from the current severe crisis by making it a priority to ensure that as many european citizens as possible have a chance to work. the european people's party therefore wholeheartedly supports the fact that the european commission's work programme for next year will have job creation as its main objective. europe has learned a lot from the crisis. we have started this year with an accelerated process to develop a new system of economic governance and we hope that next year parliament will be able to discuss new proposals on financial regulation and economic governance in such a way that they can be adopted as soon as possible. my colleagues in the people's party will be presenting the issues that are important for each area, and i would like to highlight just a few: competitiveness must be based on innovation and research. the commission's work programme welcomes initiatives in this area. there is also a need for increased protection of intellectual property rights and a functioning, competitive european patent system. we believe that it is important to strengthen controls on european food imports, and that the quality standards should be at least as high as those which the union expects from its own producers. we would also like to see more proposals on the water issue, which the hungarian presidency has set as one of its main objectives. house of honor! a new order of the union's legislative and work programme under the lisbon treaty was launched with mr barroso's state of the union address in september this year. as the new treaty gives parliament a strong say in the union's agenda, we believe that further action is important. unfortunately, our previous experience has been less than favorable. the commission's previous work programmes have been only partially implemented as planned, and several of my colleagues and i have already said this on several occasions. we think that there is no point in wasting a lot of energy and time analysing and adopting a document several times a year which only partially covers reality. i therefore propose that the competent committee of parliament regularly review the implementation of the commission's work programme throughout the year, so that the citizens we represent can have a greater say in the common affairs of the union.
as coordinator of the pp's committee on employment and social affairs, i am encouraged by the work programme that lies ahead and particularly welcome the fact that we will soon be able to start a debate on the flagship initiative, codenamed 'new skills, new jobs'. i have a few political and a few professional remarks. i think it is important that we start negotiations in good time and that the commission takes account not only of the timetable proposed by the council but also of the timetables adapted to the needs of parliament. i think it is important - and many have said this - that there are financial resources behind the projects, the priorities, and i also think it is important that the programmes decided on are followed up and monitored. some of the problems are education. we agree with the need to increase the level of education and training, but we regret the lack of legislative incentives for occupational diseases. i would like to stress and remind the commission that in the posting of workers directive we support more effective enforcement, but we are against any new directive. we believe that the social fund, the globalisation fund and the european regional fund should be used in synergy, especially in view of the fact that what should link these programmes is the main priority: job creation, employment expansion and, lastly, the elimination of administrative burdens on economic operators, especially small and mediumsized enterprises, and this should also apply to european programmes, to european funding initiatives.
i'll try to be very brief. we thank the commission for this work programme, which has been very difficult to put together because we do not have the budget. i'd like to highlight the points we'd like to have but didn't. we wanted to bring legislation to the table on the long-awaited industrial policy, but we should have made progress on the raw materials policy as well. we would have liked to see more concrete proposals on energy efficiency and energy investment in the commission's work programme. we very much regret that the six-monthly evaluation of the r & d framework programme will not take place and we would like to stress that if we manage to agree on the galileo and iter programmes in the budget, we can return to this question. we would very much welcome the implementation of the small business policy, which will soon be celebrating its second birthday, in a more effective way than it is now. and we would also like to see that this year, when there will be a new member state presidency for two consecutive semesters, there will be a hungarian and a polish presidency, that cohesion within the union, integration within the union, will continue. the gap between the eastern and western halves of the european union, in terms of wages and other things, is unacceptable. it's definitely worth making a move here. and finally, we would be very happy, and this is very important for energy security, if we could make progress on the eastern partnership. this is true even if there are those in parliament who are trying to undermine this, for example in the case of euronest.
in writing. i welcome the fact that the european commission is launching a substantial work programme for the coming year. today, we see rapidly changing economic, financial, and international political conditions override our plans almost week by week. that is why i think it is important to review the commission's work programme several times and to update it next year. i am pleased that the document identifies job creation as one of the key tasks for 2011, but i am missing the employment and social legislative initiatives. the commission has finally decided to develop a framework strategy for the roma in europe, but i think it is necessary to accompany this with legislative proposals aimed at inclusion and non-discrimination. when the barroso commission was set up, it promised that its proposals would always be preceded by a social impact assessment, but i saw no sign of this in the work plan that was drawn up. i expect the commission to be ready to receive and manage citizens' initiatives signed by one million eu citizens from the beginning of 2011. in the face of the open and covert attacks on media freedom and fundamental democratic rights in the member states, i consider it particularly important that the eu body, as guardian of the treaties, pay greater attention than ever to the independence of information, the system of democratic checks and balances, government decisions that threaten the rule of law and, if necessary, take measures to protect fundamental democratic values.
in writing. – as a woman and politician dealing with gender equality, i am disappointed with the commission work programme for 2011. women are completely forgotten by and left out of this programme. i really had to work to find at least once the word ‘women’ ... in the annex. even there, i quote: ‘depending on the outcome of the consultation, the commission may adopt a legislative proposal on reconciliation, including on paternity and filial leave, in 2012.’ ‘depending on’. ‘may adopt’. ‘in 2012’. this sentence is from a commission that rushed to produce an empty, so-called women’s charter in march, and that neglected the parliament when it came to negotiating the new gender equality strategy, which, i might add, is no more concrete than the commission work programme here. we knew in march that reding’s charter was only a façade with no substance. we asked repeatedly for a strong legislative text, but reding did not want to hear about it. why can we accept a europe that sanctions member states when they are financially not in line with eu rules and agreements but we cannot accept a europe that sanctions member states that neglect gender equality and compose governments with few or no women ministers?
on behalf of the ppe group. - officer, officer, please. although we are accustomed to treating the proposals with a critical but helpful attitude, in keeping with the tradition of this parliament, i must now say that i welcome and support the idea that has just been put forward to the fullest extent. i am particularly pleased that the commissioner has used the definition of full employment as the objective of those who can and want to have the means and opportunity to work. i support all four of the main priorities, better functioning labour markets, better quality jobs, more effective employment policies and better working conditions. even if we see that all this will not be easy to achieve. we agree with what you said about flexicurity, although i have to say, it's really time to talk about the details. we use it a lot and we think in many ways about what it really means. we believe that it is necessary to respond to changing working conditions in line with the principles of better regulation. it is therefore appropriate to bring the working time directive back into the spotlight, although i note that we do not consider a new directive to be necessary for the posting directive, but we are ready to discuss the implementation and the experience gained from it, and if necessary, to amend it where appropriate. i would like to draw attention to the need to regulate atypical forms of work. this means a whole new set of employer-employee relations in terms of social security and other conditions, and there are obviously many gaps in this area. we need to increase mobility, we need to pay more attention to the cooperation between public employment services and finally, mr president, i can see that time is running out, and i fully agree that in some ways low qualifications cost more than the crisis. so we need to get everyone to think about proper training, flexible training, recognizing the possibility of formal and informal training.
indeed, this was the question i wanted to ask or comment on further. i was glad to hear your answer, officer. in fact, my supplementary question is whether, on the basis of these principles, the commission intends to introduce in the next budgetary period a new conditionality, such as that segregation should not be reinforced, but that the use of these funds should specifically aim at social integration. the problem was that these funds were often used to build and rebuild large institutions, rather than integrated housing. i think there are many good experts who would be happy to help the commission and the member states in this.
the european union is rather unpopular among hungarian farmers, especially small farmers. not only because we have had to sacrifice 100% of our markets in favour of foreign food imports in return for a fraction of the agricultural subsidies that were due to the old farmers in the member states, but also because, as the subject of our sitting today, excessive bureaucracy and those terrible administrative burdens are really - as has been said here on several occasions - hindering hungarian farmers in what is their real mission: farming. let me mention that in the old member states, hungary for example, there is another serious complicating factor, namely the state socialist or communist tradition, which leads some of the state officials to believe that they are not for the citizen and, where appropriate, for the farmer, but on the contrary, the citizen is for the state and the bureaucrat is for the state official. such public officials are burdening even beyond the existing rules, absolutely unnecessarily, humiliating and abusive, by regulating the farmers, making their lives difficult. we're getting complaints all the time. the latter concerned, for example, the refusal to pay the costs of an event organised by means of a call for tenders under the second pillar, on the grounds that the host had failed to obtain three quotes for the wholesale outlet he had provided to the participants. it's a classic case of humiliation, of excessive order, of domination. what's the cure? if such abuses can be complained about not only by the decision-maker, because we know that this is a death sentence attempt, but by the european union itself, once we have become members, and once the european union has paid these subsidies, the european union should create a control mechanism to which one can turn and where such humiliations, abuses are investigated and sanctioned.
in writing. the commission communication peace in the 2020 perspective contains few specifics on the practice of reducing administrative burdens. the word 'simplification' also occurs only by default in the text in relation to cross-compliance rules. however, the cap is too complex in other areas, often not transparent or understandable to farmers. one of the most important tasks would be to eliminate double regulation. several member states have imposed stricter national requirements than those required by eu law. this in itself distorts competition in the internal market. it would be appropriate for the different cross-compliance authorities in the member states and their departments to coordinate in order to avoid the same operator being subject to different checks within a short period of time. in the light of the current state of telecommunications and information technology, the establishment of a common database would make this possible. in the commission's reform proposal, environmental aid remains in pillar ii, but at the same time this green flag has been incorporated into the criteria for direct payments under pillar i. how this reference is made is not known today. i'd appreciate it if this positive step didn't bring another administrative burden.
mrs lulling asked us to support the motion for a resolution. and we can do that with a good heart, because we're going to have a really great document. the most important statement of this document is that it calls on the european commission to ensure that, after 2013, the existing support schemes that exist in the beekeeping sector are maintained and strengthened. it is in dire need of these subsidies because products produced by beekeeping are not recognised by the market in a way that would ensure the survival of the beekeeping sector. and beekeepers provide a lot of pollination services for agriculture and biodiversity conservation. a very important statement of this document is that it calls on the european commission to change the rules on the labelling of honey products as part of the quality policy. the current rules allow for abuse by labelling as honey of european origin honey which actually contains only a very small amount of european honey, in fact the vast majority of it, possibly even of inferior quality imported from third countries. and it is also very important to note that this document calls on the european commission to submit a legislative proposal to prevent the labelling of products containing less than 50% of sugar from honey as honey products. i have been fighting for these issues for years here in the european parliament. we have not yet succeeded in integrating it so perfectly into any single document as we have done in this motion for a resolution. i hope that the european commission will take up parliament's recommendations and find a way to solve these longstanding issues in the next six months, within the framework of quality policy.
i would also like to thank the rapporteur and mrs lulling for their role in this report on the state of beekeeping, and if i may, i would also like to thank the world-renowned hungarian beekeepers for sharing their knowledge and experience with me and for allowing me to pass on all the information we received from them to the committee. when the hungarian beekeepers look at the finished document, they will see your invisible signature on it. what i am very much lacking, what was not accepted in my amendments, is the financial recognition of the public good effect of beekeeping. now, beekeepers produce honey, beeswax, propolis, pollen, but that's just a small part of what they do. the big part of it is that they're multiplying the value of pollination, both qualitatively and quantitatively, for other agricultural crops. it's a public good that should be honored somehow. we have recommended the introduction of the concept of community beekeeping and, even if this has not been achieved at present, we are certainly proposing that beekeepers be given financial recognition for their work for the public good at member state level.
the next hungarian presidency will face a huge challenge to bring the amendment to the lisbon treaty, the introduction of economic governance, to a successful conclusion as soon as possible. the new non-euro area member states are watching with astonishment as the euro area is being torn apart. we are bound by the accession treaty, and more importantly, our further recovery depends on the stabilisation of the richest half of europe, on the triumph of national self-interest over community solidarity. we look with concern and sympathy at the irish crisis, the greek, portuguese and spanish problems. whether the eurozone is going to collapse. the european council, as usual, took a long delay but made the right decision. this could be a new chapter in the history of european integration, if we introduce economic governance, but the implementation of this is fraught with many pitfalls, with many complexities. i trust that the hungarian presidency will do everything to ensure success.
mr president, members of the council. i'm pleased to see that the importance of systemic pension reforms has been recognized at the meeting. however, they do not provide equal opportunities for all actors within the framework of the stability and growth pact. hungary also raises the issue of discrimination and has called on the union to take into account the cost of pension reforms in the calculation of government deficits. in my view, unless you want to discriminate against countries with freedom of choice, the contributions to private pension funds should be taken into account in the budget deficit. the matter is urgent. the good news is that the peace settlement is now open for discussion at the december board meeting. i ask you to take a non-discriminatory political decision and to forward it to the commission as soon as possible so that the legislative process can begin as soon as possible and then be concluded in a way that reassures everyone.
in writing. i am pleased to see that europe is increasingly committed to the single energy market. this is illustrated by the fact that both today's report by mrs kolarska-bobinska and the european commission's latest energy strategy and infrastructure priorities call for structural change. it is finally becoming clear to all of us that for breakthrough success we need significant investment, the removal of administrative barriers and concrete action plans. this is the only way to make the main objectives of the lisbon treaty - the single market, security of supply, energy efficiency and the spread of renewables - a reality for all member states. i consider it a great step forward that the abovementioned documents treat energy development in central and eastern europe as a top priority. the gas crisis of last year made it clear to western countries that the member states of our region are highly dependent on one source of gas and that the single market does not work here. europe has recognised that access to alternative gas sources, the construction of the north-south gas corridor and the elimination of isolated markets will increase regional security of supply and make a significant step towards the single market. in parallel, the strengthening of the electricity networks and the regional interconnection of oil pipelines will also broaden the scope of our region. however, the commitment cannot be expressed at the level of strategy-making. i am confident that structural changes will be made as soon as possible in order to achieve the single market effectively. rapid and transparent authorisation is achieved, regional initiatives are developed and new funding instruments are made available.
in preparation for the cancún climate conference, the european union and its member states should finally recognise that we cannot influence the united states, china, india and the emerging major economies to fight climate change by setting new and new unilateral targets. in this light, the 40% unilateral co2 reduction commitment proposed by the greens seems excessive. a 30% unilateral commitment makes sense only if it conceals real action. i agree with mrs hedegaard that the union can regain its leading role if it produces concrete results in terms of investments in research and development, the creation of green jobs, the construction of the smart energy grid and green growth.
in writing. at the press conference of the people's party yesterday, you must have heard about the so-called hfc-23 scandal. i myself find it extremely outrageous that european taxpayers should pay almost 70 times the price for the destruction of a greenhouse gas produced by the production of a refrigerant gas that was already subject to a ban, and that this should greatly increase the extra profits of some companies, mainly chinese and indian. it is scandalous that the european commission, citing investor confidence, does not plan to immediately suspend trading in these allowances and change this unsustainable situation before 2013. this is all the more scandalous in the light of the commission's efforts at international climate negotiations to prevent the newly acceded member states from retaining their national kyoto quotas. this is despite the fact that the quotas for the former socialist countries, including hungary, are based on actual emission reductions, for which the eastern european countries have paid a heavy price since the changeover. the scandal that was revealed yesterday is that although european consumers have paid 1.5 billion euros to date to get rid of hfc-23, the concentration of this gas in the atmosphere, which is 12 000 times more harmful than carbon dioxide, has increased significantly over the last two decades. it is therefore not surprising, ladies and gentlemen, that in the face of such double standards, cancun will not have a unified eu position, as in copenhagen.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, i think we all agreed that ukraine is a strategically important state for the european union, because of its size, because of its population, and it is a key state for the european union. but there are two things i'm missing from the report. one is the mention of ukrainian minorities. ukraine, we all know that about 65 to 70% of the population of ukraine is ukrainian, even if you count the russians, and there is a very large russian minority, or where appropriate, hungarian, tatar and romanian minorities living in ukraine. i would like to expressly request that the report and our demands express our concerns about the minority. it also includes support for local education, i.e. minority education, in terms of the use of minority languages, and the destruction of various monuments, where appropriate at the expense of the transcarpathian hungarian minority. and the other is that i really miss that we didn't speak up loud enough about the fraud in the municipal elections. i would therefore ask the union to ask ukraine to clarify its position on these two issues.
my fellow members of the house of representatives! my party, the movement for a better hungary, is extremely concerned with protecting the environment, restoring ecological balance. we are convinced that europe is not only in an economic crisis, a recession, but also in an environmental crisis. in this context, we consider it extremely important to create self-determination in the food and light industry in the european union. no one understands why we have to import tons of chinese garlic, peppers and brazilian chicken into the european union when we can produce them locally. so we say we need local food and light industry self-sufficiency. the european parliament, and therefore we, have a duty to protect european farmers, smes, and we also have a duty to protect our citizens, so that they can have clean, good quality food from local farmers. we also believe that it is essential to make environmentally friendly technologies mandatory on a large scale.
the ombudsman report makes it clear that the lack of transparency in the eu institutions is one of the biggest problems. most of the complaints are about the commission, which, by its repeated delays in responding, is shaking confidence in the european institutions. increase transparency by optimising the work of the institutions, by broadening communication, while ensuring that costs do not increase. the european union has already spent a lot on propaganda, on its own advertising. moreover, the number of complaints is likely to increase further with the introduction of the lisbon treaty and the incomplete or delayed application of european legislation in the member states. in order to prevent this, extended and coordinated judicial training for national judges, legal practitioners, public administrations and public officials should be organised. citizens should also be made aware that they can challenge an act infringing eu law before national courts. in the first half of 2011, hungary will hold the rotating presidency of the european union, and therefore we, the hungarian representatives, have a particularly important task in implementing legal harmonisation.
in writing. in the margin of the annual report on the ombudsman's activities, may i, as parliament's draftsman of opinion on public access to documents, refer to institutional transparency. i was pleased to see that the author of the evaluation, mrs nedelcheva, paid particular attention to the links between transparency and good administration when examining complaints from citizens to the ombudsman. the right to good administration has become mandatory under the lisbon treaty, but the full exercise of personal rights is equally important. in one of our recent meetings with mr diamandouros, we discussed the delicate balance between institutional transparency and data protection. we also highlighted the june judgment of the european court of justice in the bavarian lager case, which brought transparency issues to a head, and is of particular importance because it provides guidance on cases where an alleged or real public interest conflicts with the right to the protection of personal data. i was very pleased to see that mr diamandouros also stressed the principle that personal data should only be disclosed with the consent of the data subject. i therefore consider it important to emphasise that i strongly support efforts to make the work of the eu institutions more transparent and to establish appropriate administrative techniques. the european ombudsman's work is focused on promoting this, according to the annual report.
as a representative of the movement for a better hungary, i welcome and support the european parliament's motion for a resolution against the people's republic of china's plans to make chinese an official language in tibetan schools. although the chinese occupiers granted tibet autonomy, the tibetan language is gradually being pushed out of education and official forums. china's poor human rights record also raises the risk of conflict in tibet over the forced introduction of chinese. ensure the right of tibetans to receive education in their own language and to have official affairs handled in tibetan. their fundamental human rights, including the right to association and the right of citizens to demonstrate, must be guaranteed. but unfortunately, we don't have to go far to find cases like this, because in europe, too, there is a real and existing problem, a crude assimilation experiment. whether we think of transylvanian hungarians in romania or of hungarians in canton, but also think of the exclusionary, discriminatory slovak language law.
mr president, as you rightly said, our group is asking for the regulation on implementing acts to be put on the agenda. i feel a little awkward doing this, because it is not only my group’s request; several other groups support this idea. we had a unanimous vote in the committee on legal affairs on this report and on the various common understandings and statements that were annexed to it. i would like to remind colleagues that the lisbon treaty entered into force a year ago. this regulation on implementing acts follows a year of very hard negotiations in an area where the new delegated and implementing acts are a very important issue for this parliament. after one year, i think we can fully exercise this right. this is why it would be good to discuss and adopt this new regulation. i would also like to inform you – as our colleagues know – that there was a very difficult situation in the council with two blocking minorities. it is therefore a very delicate act, which is why i think that the right thing to do is to get through it as soon as possible. all parliament’s rights are met in this report. i ask for the support of all the other groups.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. my fellow members of parliament! during the last working week of the year, i would like to summarise my experience of the administration of the european parliament. in line with the opinion of the european ombudsman of 6 december, i would like to say that the team and staff of the european parliament are to be commended for their efforts to improve equal opportunities and in particular the situation of people with disabilities, and i hope that there will be no retreat in the future. i'd like to thank three people. one of the reasons for the adaptation is mrs erica landi and mr pierre debaty, head of the office for training. i would like to thank the head of the office for equal opportunities and diversity, ms rosa brignone, for giving 61 people with disabilities the opportunity to work in the european parliament. this program can give you a job with the right help. i would ask the president to continue to pay attention to these programmes for the future of the european union.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. my fellow members of parliament! in hungary, the two-thirds majority government has been attacking democratic institutions for the past six months. the former parity-based media watchdog was dissolved and replaced by a staff of pro-government party delegates. the so-called media constitution recently adopted in hungary offers the government the opportunity to censor even some websites in the chinese style. this is what the president of the media authority, szalai annamaria, bragged about in an interview. as an example, the most read right-wing news portal mentioned www.kuruc.info, which, due to the anonymity of the internet, was at the forefront of uncovering the previous government's violations. i ask the european parliament and the commission to urge fidesz to put an end to the anti-democratic processes in hungary as soon as possible. the only thing left to the domestic opposition is the power of publicity, and now they want to take that away from us.
as of january, hungary takes over the rotating presidency of the eu as the third new member state. it's going to be a great challenge for hungary. this is when the eu's economic governance begins, this is when the eu's first financial semester begins, this is when the treaty of lisbon is amended to create a permanent crisis management mechanism. we hope that the accession negotiations with croatia will be concluded and that romania and bulgaria will become members of the schengen area. the democratic parties in hungary, with the exception of the far right, agree and cooperate for the success of the hungarian presidency. at the same time, this parliament must also deal with the contradiction that while the hungarian presidency should be guarding the respect of the fundamental freedoms of the union, in hungary this government is severely restricting democracy, freedom of speech, trade union rights. i hope the hungarian government behaves differently in europe than it does at home.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president! thank you for informing the commissioner. visa policy is a very important tool in our hands in terms of facilitating people-to-people contacts and bringing these countries closer to the european union. in this respect, this agreement is very important. between the european union and georgia, i would like to say a few words about visa liberalisation in the western balkan countries. first of all, perhaps, the problems arising in relation to serbia and macedonia. we have supported this with a very large majority in parliament, and we consider it very important for the reasons i have just mentioned. these countries have made a serious effort in this area to meet the expectations, despite the fact that we often see political life as divided. there was cooperation in these countries. it is gratifying to see the increase in the number of people entering the european union. the problems that we have in serbia, in macedonia, we feel are primarily caused by human trafficking, and it certainly affects a small number, even if it causes serious problems. i think we're both responsible. we have a shared responsibility in that these countries also have to do their best to inform their citizens and to act with toughness. and serbia did it very quickly and very efficiently. but i think our responsibility is very important in this. it is partly the commission's responsibility to help these countries to fight against trafficking in human beings on the one hand, and on the other hand to provide information, monitor what is happening there and really make this otherwise very important tool more effective, which we want to use in the future, partly with the western balkan countries and partly with other countries. and let me say in a few words that we are very pleased that, after a year's delay and somewhat later, albania and bosnia and herzegovina are joining the visa-free countries this year.
i was reassured by commissioner malström's answer that, as far as serbia and macedonia are concerned, we do not wish to throw out the baby with the bath water. because of the problems that have arisen with serbia, macedonia, it would be a huge mistake to re-introduce the visa, both for serbia and macedonia. the commissioner indicated that the hungarian presidency will be a partner in this for the next six months, as hungary is extremely interested, as serbia's neighbour, in the settlement of these problems, because of the neighbourhood and the 300 000 hungarian community. it is clear that the serbian and macedonian governments must be the ones to act decisively, to provide the information, as you have indicated, but i would like to point out that the old member states concerned, which are faced with these asylum problems, must also look at whether their asylum policy is correct, since they are also granting asylum to people who should not be granted it.
my fellow members of parliament! the relationship between russia and the eu has always been a special, special relationship, given the great power status of both sides. no doubt this status will cause differences of opinion on certain issues and will make many questions different. however, we must not forget, and i must emphasize this, that russia is part of europe not only geopolitically but also culturally and historically. because of these ties, visa facilitation between the two parties is essential, and this is supported by the movement for a better hungary. russia, as well as individual eu member states, can independently determine the administrative obligations related to visas, which should operate on the basis of the principle of reciprocity. the situation in serbia is not nearly as clear, where, unfortunately, the hungarian minority and other minorities still suffer from many disadvantages. the european parliament, the european union, must examine this.
in writing. the issue of maintaining visa-free travel is not a technical issue but a clearly political one, but visa-free travel is always based on mutual trust, mutual commitments. and the message for the countries concerned in our debate today is that, having won the visa waiver, they have not stopped the long line of work that comes with the commitment to provide their citizens with information about what visa waiver means, so that the opportunity is not abused. the visa waiver granted to serbia and montenegro provides access to the european perspective, in particular to young people, who are the building blocks of the europe of the future. the exemption granted two years ago was an important political message for these countries, and breaking it could have very serious consequences. it is equally important to maintain visa-free travel for hungarians of the future, for citizens who live on one side of the border or the other, speak the same language, and have close family and cultural ties. for countries rushing towards the union, the creation of conditions for living side by side without borders is of paramount importance.
my english colleague spoke of the difficulties faced by british workers migrating there. i come from a country, hungary, where unfortunately a lot of people are forced to go to england to work as nurses or doctors or other health professionals, because the salaries in hungary are very low. these people are trained in hungary, very high quality, hungary is collapsing ... (the president declared the sitting closed)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, the report and the draft which it contains are clearly designed and prepared to promote and facilitate immigration in a way which is unacceptable to us. the establishment of the immigration liaison officers network is a further step in the centralised relocation of migrants and refugees, managed by the european union. it is also unacceptable that the term illegal immigration should be replaced by the term irregular immigration, thereby attempting to legitimize an otherwise illegal act. the people of europe are tired of the flood of immigrants, and it would be good if the elected representatives sitting here would take note of this. unfortunately, i have nothing to say about this report other than it's a caricature of itself. the european parliament is a caricature of what this report is about.
it is time to finally try to find and fix the root causes of immigration. i would suggest that, as a human cause, we should introduce the right of everyone to live in their own country, in their own country, and that we should create economic and other conditions in the world, including in the eu member states considered to be second-class, so that people can live in the country of their birth. in hungary, to continue with my previous thought, the health system has collapsed, or is on the verge of collapse, because hungarian doctors, nurses, health professionals are forced to migrate en masse, practically as economic refugees, within the union, for example, to england and other countries. it is time to investigate this phenomenon and take action, for example by obliging member states, where appropriate, to provide qualified doctors and nurses with adequate livelihoods.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on tuesday 14 december 2010. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following point is inserted after point 2 of the report by mr claude moraes, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the extension of the scope of directive 2003/109/ec to include persons enjoying international protection (com (((2007) 0298 - c6-0196/2007 - 2007/0112 ((cod)) (a7-0347/2010))
member of the commission. − mr president, i do not have much to add. there is a big consensus of support here for the work done by mr moraes on this very important directive. i would just once again make a pledge to mr moraes and the others that this is an important building block. i believe it will get strong support tomorrow in the vote. this is the first step in our common journey towards 2012 and the asylum package. i just hope that this spirit of constructive cooperation will remain because i need – and i am counting on – your support for the remaining directives.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on tuesday 14 december 2010.
the following item is the joint debate on the following reports:- report by petru constantin luhan on behalf of the committee on regional development on territorial, social and economic cohesion (a7-0309/2010), and- report by ramona nicole mănescu on behalf of the committee on regional development on good governance and eu regional policy (a7-0280/2010)
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. my fellow members of parliament! hungary is in a unique position when it comes to establishing and supporting crossborder economic entity regions. it is a historical fact that these regions once formed a unity in the carpathian basin, therefore jobbik representatives support and consider necessary cooperation between the regions in the current situation, thus also blurring the temporary borders erected between the hungarians. however, instead of direct funds, channelled and managed through brussels, financial resources can only be envisaged in the form of projects initiated and approved by the countries concerned in partnership and joint cooperation. at local, regional level, both the identification and the management of problems can be done more effectively, taking into account the cross-border nature of the economically connected regions mentioned as an example, and this would be encouraged even if only economic aspects were taken into account. similarly, simplifying rules, involving smes in european projects and reaching out to economically less developed regions would all be welcome if these popular measures did not lead to an expansion of the powers and control of brussels and the commission by relegating national governance to the background. with the emphasis on the regions and their direct economic support, a new era may begin for the hungarians of the carpathian basin.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! i would like to congratulate mr luhan on his work on this report. i would like to draw your attention to two points in connection with this report. in the context of the link between the implementation of the eu 2020 strategy and the improvement of competitiveness, it is important to stress that closure and the improvement of competitiveness are mutually reinforcing processes. we cannot concentrate on supporting the most developed regions in order to maximise the union's competitiveness, as this threatens to further fragment the less developed regions, leading to significant social tensions and instability throughout the union. it is also important to note that, while cohesion policy makes a substantial contribution to the implementation of the eu 2020 strategy, it cannot be responsible for achieving the objectives of the strategy on its own. therefore, coherence between the eu 2020 strategy and the achievement of the objectives of cohesion policy should be ensured and other policy areas should contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the strategy to an appropriate extent. as a second comment, i would like to underline that i fully agree with the rapporteur that gdp should remain the measure of member states' entitlement, because gdp is the most reliable indicator of development currently known. at member state level, national authorities may use other indicators for the allocation of resources, but at union level gdp should be retained as the eligibility criterion.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. my fellow members of parliament! first of all, i'd like to thank the reporter. in my book, we're talking about one of the most important issues of the last century. my only heartache is that it happened at this late hour. as the report points out, the most vulnerable to advertising are children and adolescents, whose free will is still weak and who can be easily influenced. this applies not only to irregular, false and aggressive advertising, but to all advertising in general in a new world where they are confronted at an early age with the compulsive forces of integration into the consumer society. children's programming should be explicitly prohibited from advertising. and i should also point out that for young people, perhaps the most dangerous media outlet is not the traditional media, like tv or radio, but the internet. advertising here is the most aggressive, the most likely to hit the targeted consumer. the most audacious companies are not even concerned with personal data, but through social networks, they use it to penetrate the intimate sphere of the person. this must be prohibited and sanctioned. we must all propose action in the european union in this regard.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. i want to thank you for being so generous with your time. i shall then pay particular attention to the meetings you will be chairing and will try to be present at all of them. it is very important to mrs. swinburne that we finally talk about regulating the trading of financial instruments. the first and most important mistake in the report is that the report, the urging for further regulation is already a belated step. two of them. if the regulation has been opaque, we need to go back and clarify what happened. i think that taking a lot of investments out of the strictest controls is a pointless, even downright wrong move. it is not just the way in which they are traded that needs to be reviewed, but also the derivatives issued and new issues that need to be more tightly regulated. in fact, derivatives of money market products are fueling inflation. the burden is borne by the population, the profits are collected by various international legal entities whose background is not always clear. and it's not good luck to put the profits that you've pocketed back into the real economy, because it's going to gradually go into the pockets of the richest people, maybe the entire planet.
the rapporteur. - mr president, colleagues and members of the house! the adoption of the treaty of lisbon brought with it a vision and a concept of a strong europe in terms of community competences. and to the citizens, it promises to bring that vision to life. this is also true for the protection of fundamental rights, and unlike previous years, this year's report looks at these new legal bases, the strengthening and new licences and institutions, and the situation that has emerged. the report aims to take a comprehensive, innovative approach to the protection of fundamental rights. since december 2009, the protection of fundamental human rights has been based on several pillars in the union. on the one hand, it is based on the treaty of lisbon and the charter of fundamental rights, which has been given legal force. the latter has become the guiding principle for the creation and application of eu law, whether by the eu institutions or by the member states when they apply eu law. the european union's legal system will have a similar pillar when it accedes to the european convention on human rights, which is currently being negotiated, but the system of human rights guarantees in the member states' own legal systems will remain a similar pillar. these legal bases are also reinforced by the community institutions that have been set up, both at community and member state level. at community level, the commission, the fundamental rights commissioner's portfolio, the council working party in the council, the parliament and, i would mention among the agencies, the role of the fundamental rights agency. my report aims to draw attention to the need for these existing institutions and mechanisms to operate efficiently and transparently. whether it's decision-making, monitoring legislation, data collection or even information sharing, not prioritizing some rights over others. it is important that the institutions not only talk, but also react and reflect on each other. they use and build on each other's work in the field of human rights protection, making decisions consistently, objectively, and based on facts. in this report, we have therefore listed what parliament expects from these institutions. we reflected on the commission's communication of october, which followed a similar line of thinking. the report's fundamental objective is to emphasise that the starting point and the end point of the newly developed framework of fundamental rights must be the individual, that is, the citizen. this means providing citizens with the right information so that they know and are aware of their options and can take advantage of them. the system of protection of fundamental rights should be understandable, accessible and usable, since the whole structure is worth what the citizens of the union can make of it. in order to achieve these objectives, those institutions and the member states should play a balancing role in order to enhance the union's credibility in the eyes of its citizens. finally, my report focuses on areas where rapid action is needed, but also on medium and long-term strategies, such as roma integration, the fight against child poverty, the use of languages by minority communities, to name just a few. i hope that with the report adopted tomorrow we can send a clear and easily understandable message to the institutions mentioned: the commission, the council, the agencies, the national bodies, the courts, to make this system even more effective. i ask for your support tomorrow to ensure that in the post-lisbon period - the funds and institutions are in place - we act in the spirit of the treaty.
as a hungarian and a female politician, i am proud that a hungarian representative, gál kinga, has created a very important work on the better enforcement of human rights and put it on the table of the european union, and i thank her for this. what i'm missing is the emphasis on traditional civil and political freedoms, and we hungarians are hardly in a better position than anyone else in the union to emphasize that the european union has a problem not just with discrimination against minorities or roma integration when we talk about human rights, but with freedom of expression, freedom of assembly, freedom of speech, and we have no better proof of this than the situation in hungary between 2002 and 2010. the hungarian parliament's human rights committee recently adopted a very thorough and detailed report that, supported by court judgments, ombudsman reports and other means, proved that between 2002 and 2010, the hungarian socialist governments maintained their power by gross and continuous trampling on human rights. my question to the rapporteur is whether, in the present situation, this particular hungarian report can finally be put on the table of the european union and will the european union examine it, because that would make it really real that there is a change in the field of human rights here, or how can the 2006 mass shootings in hungary be avoided in the future if we can talk about the possibility of increased enforcement of human rights in the european union, especially given that the vice-president of the libe committee is still a person who was a member of the government that carried out the mass shooting?
mr. president, the officer's wife. the lisbon treaty also made the charter of fundamental rights binding and provided for the possibility of initiating infringement proceedings in the event of its breach. the social tensions resulting from the crisis have led to a reduction in democratic rights in some member states, rather than a move in this direction. restrictions on media freedom, restrictions on the right to strike, the avoidance and narrowing of social dialogue, the intensification of discrimination, the undermining of the foundations of the rule of law, legal certainty. as the guardian of the treaties, the commission has a duty to monitor these signals. we consider it important to establish the portfolio of the commissioner for fundamental rights and ask the commissioner to monitor the member states regularly and to speak up if fundamental rights, the basic principles of democracy, are violated, so that they are not only binding on the candidate countries before accession, but also afterwards. this also undermines the union's credibility.
the forward-looking part of the report has been highlighted before. finally, a report that summarizes the various human rights issues without elevating one area over the other. i am particularly pleased that the report makes a special point of non-discrimination and equal opportunities. the report is based on the charter of fundamental rights. the most important part of my speech is about that. the charter can only be successfully upheld and enforced if european society recognises that all people are equal and that equal treatment is the only way to achieve this. if anyone is disadvantaged in any way, through no fault of his own, then he should be helped by appropriate help, proportionately, to become an equal human being, an equal citizen. the road to that is very difficult and takes a lot of work. the report of galinga is an important step on the way to that. thank you very much for doing such a great job.
the rapporteur has done an excellent job, but there is a hungarian proverb that if this is not achieved, it is as good as dead horses. i see no political will on the part of the european commission to comply and to bring infringement proceedings against member states. i have a lot of confidence in mrs. redding. he has more courage than all the men in the commission put together, for he dares to stand up to mr sarkozy, despite mr barroso's long dissuasion. the next period will be a challenging one, as the hungarian government, which holds the eu presidency, is committing serious violations of fundamental rights. it restricts media freedom, it abolishes union rights for public employees, and it doesn't protect private property when it takes away 3 million people's private pension savings. it violates fundamental rights, and you, mrs. reding, must have the courage to bring this infringement action.
the rapporteur. - thank you colleagues for your words of encouragement and support. i would particularly like to thank you for the openness and cooperation with which we have been working for some time now and for the concrete and clear answers and messages. i see that the views of the shadow rapporteurs, the views of the colleagues are all in this report and acceptable compromises have been made. i cannot therefore support the amendments which have now been tabled again in plenary, because i think that the report as it stands is acceptable. i would like to draw attention to the fact that in the general system of basic rights protection, we should not throw out the child with the bath water, and therefore we should always pay attention to the specifics and try to translate into concrete the expectations that we have discussed here today. i am therefore pleased that in tomorrow's plenary session we will see these specifics in the fight against trafficking in human beings, where we will be increasing the protection of child victims in the area of victim protection, which is also now being discussed with the adoption of the citizens' initiative, as a result of which we can really talk about a citizens' europe, since these european citizens can have a say in the legislative process, but the fact that the situation of human rights in the world will be discussed and accepted tomorrow, i also feel it is symbolic. it is welcome that the hungarian presidency is setting its priorities in a similar spirit and is putting emphasis on strengthening the union for citizens, but i would draw the attention of my colleagues to the fact that we in this house in particular are avoiding the use of double standards. i am speaking to colleagues who, for years - and i am addressing socialist hungarian colleagues here - have assisted in the most serious human rights violations, and now they are spreading baseless accusations against others, just to regain the trust of the electorate, which they may have lost precisely because of these human rights violations. thank you all for your cooperation and help.
as a lawyer, i have been working for more than ten years on cases of victims of violence against women and children - domestic violence, rape, trafficking in women - and i have experienced that the social distancing measure, which is the subject of our session today, is one of the important and indispensable means of protecting victims, but it is not the only one. it takes a complex set of measures, legal counselling, psychological support, counselling sessions with the children involved, and it's very important that we listen to the victims, who are the most - i'm sorry to say - the experts in what they need. i have two questions for the commissioner and the reporters. one is how much they involve the victims of violence against women in this work, to share their experiences. the second is that the convention on violence against women, which is currently being prepared by the council of europe, the european union's twin, is well known to the commissioner and the rapporteurs and we are involved in preparing this work.
madam president, this report was certainly a major step along the road to fighting trafficking in human beings in general and trafficking in women in particular. the next major step should be to explore the crystal clear relationship and connection between trafficking in women and prostitution. on the one hand, we rightly talk about trafficking in women as a brutal, terrible crime that we should fight. on the other hand, we talk about prostitution as ‘sex work’, as a service. we talk about pimps and brothel-keepers as entrepreneurs, and we normalise prostitution. what i want to say is that the client who goes to a brothel, or the client who asks for the services of a prostitute, has basically no way of knowing whether she is a ‘normal’ prostitute – if that even exists since it is another matter whether there is ever consent to prostitution – or a trafficked woman. there is therefore no way of really attacking trafficking without attacking the sex industry.
in writing. – trafficking in human beings is a crime against human dignity that ruins the life of many children and women throughout the world. the current proposal is a breakthrough because it puts victims first and tackles the problem in a complex, cross-border manner. these new measures will facilitate the reconnaissance and prosecution of trafficking cases and will encourage victims to cooperate with the authorities. this will be binding legislation, subject to state enforcement. this type of regulation is the only one that can make a difference for all vulnerable people who might fall prey to trafficking. i also call on member states to follow the proposal in this text and punish those who knowingly accept the services of a victim of trafficking. fighting demand is key to fighting the roots of trafficking. this report is an excellent proposal, morally and professionally, and i congratulate my distinguished colleagues bauer and hedh for this. i am particularly happy that the council and femm and libe committees managed to create a text that is backed by all relevant institutions in the eu. i hope that it will soon be formally adopted and transposed into national law. the victims are eager to see it.
in writing. – as a result of the harmful tendencies affecting roma communities – such as low levels of education, deep poverty, marginalisation and discrimination – roma women and children are extremely vulnerable to trafficking. this modern-day slavery is deeply rooted in poverty and exclusion and, therefore, the elimination of the unacceptable living conditions that many roma face must be a major strategic objective. furthermore, the eu and the authorities of the member states must take much more vigorous action to combat this phenomenon, particularly regarding the eradication of organised crime and the protection of groups at risk, namely women and minors of minority origin. this initiative aims to adopt a broader concept of what should be considered trafficking and i believe that exploitation for begging, including the use of a trafficked dependent person for begging, regardless of his or her relationship with the perpetrators, must fall within this scope. penalties should be more severe when the offence is committed against persons vulnerable on grounds of age, gender, pregnancy, health conditions, or disability, and must pay due account of cases where the victim has been subjected to torture, the forced administration of drugs or medication, rape or other serious forms of psychological, physical and sexual violence.
i would like to ask the same question. europeans are digitally dependent nowadays, and we wish to be digitally dependent, but with the proviso that we feel safe and secure on the internet. it has to be a priority for the commission to come up with proposals regarding the safety of the 500 million citizens of europe. what are its plans regarding keeping security and privacy together in order not to neutralise one or the other?
on behalf of the ppe group. we are now testing the effects of the lisbon treaty on ourselves. we have said a great deal, and the european media have said it, that parliament's rights have been greatly increased as a result of this treaty. it is true that the two arms of the budgetary authority are roughly equally powerful, but the power of this arm cannot be fully exploited, since we are bound by the treaty to agree. it is only in a situation where parliament's powers are greater that it is quite unthinkable for the council to vote itself out of office in the course of the subsequent procedure. we all have had to face the fact that living with the 1/12s means that we can only be fooling around from month to month and not understand the european union, and therefore the european people's party, in agreement with the other political groups, considers it necessary to have a budget for the european union valid until tomorrow. the basis for this budget was put forward by the european commission in the summer and parliament considers it to be a sound and good budget. that's pretty much how the council saw it, because it didn't do much about it, just lowered the levels of payments, citing the great recession. it's a strange crisis that, compared to the income of the european member states, seems to be solvable with four billion. to be honest, this reduction can be considered a bit of populism. in the final agreement, when parliament approved this four billion cut, what was pleasing was that we did not cut the numbers down with a lawnmower, but that we kept the emphasis on the important areas that parliament was particularly sensitive about. for my part, i consider it very important that there has been a significant increase of almost 15% in the area available for cohesion policy support. it's also important to have some way to move forward. i understand the signal, mr president, and i will finish right away, but i must also say that parliament made a very big mistake at the end of the negotiation process, and party political interests have made it very difficult for us to achieve all our objectives.
mr president, as a member of the european parliament, i feel responsible that we have a budget. as a socialist, i am very sorry that we would not go for a financial transaction tax. as a rapporteur for the committee on industry, research and energy, i would like to underline that we support the iter project, but we do not need a patchwork solution for one year: we need a sustainable financial solution for the next two decades. as a hungarian, i am very happy that the hungarian presidency will hopefully not have to deal with the budget, but only to find a solution for iter and for flexibility during the negotiations.
mr president, mr commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. respected reporter! my fellow members of the house of representatives! i am very pleased that mr gauzès has produced such a fine report. this is a very important subject. the habitus and functioning of credit rating agencies is always relevant. the rapporteur's aspiration to monitor credit rating agencies and their products in an integrated manner according to uniform eu standards should be supported, but it is important to know exactly what and how they are rated. these questions need to be asked, because it is well known that before the crisis, these credit rating agencies gave excellent ratings to trillions of dollars of dubious or poorly backed securities, unfortunately giving unlimited room for speculation. first, the question of independence must be examined. if it is true that banks and certain investment groups finance the fees for the ratings, then the question arises whether the decisions of the credit rating agencies are made in a disinterested manner. the second question is the methodology of the rating. third, that coordinated downgrades and negative ratings can make any country insolvent, and thus ensure that it remains an increasingly vulnerable customer in the debtor market, forcing it to take on new loans. small, open economies and non-euro area member states are particularly at risk. i therefore believe that the acceptance that credit rating agencies are not responsible for the ratings they issue is incorrect. my fellow members of the house of representatives! so let's treat ratings appropriately, and only rely on them to the extent that they are credible, and let's use them as a guide in regulatory design. the report is more than supportive. the global economic crisis has shown the need to regulate and supervise the functioning of these institutions at union level.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. my fellow members of parliament! first of all, if we're going to be honest, we have to say, unfortunately, that the credit rating agencies are basically subsidiaries of international big business. they use the institutions to put pressure on the states, trying to influence their decisions. the biggest problem with the ratings is that they are almost entirely subjective and do not give an accurate picture of the current economic situation of the country. these unrealistic ratings are clearly hindering the recovery of countries from crisis. and of course, there are objective measures, like the government deficit or the debt ratio. a big step towards the solution is to set up an organization, a supervision that will effectively monitor the quality of these institutions, preventing the often erroneous ratings. but i would certainly have a question for the commissioner that esma - we talked a lot about it, that it will have various sanctions - but when will it be known what those sanctions will be, what will be the extent of them and when can these sanctions be introduced. thank you in advance for your answer.
my dear officer. you guys! if cancun isn't a turning point, but without it, there's no chance of turning point in durban a year from now. i want to congratulate everyone who's contributed to this achievement. i've been following this process from brussels and budapest, and the huge result is that there's a chance of a comprehensive, binding international agreement with hard work in durban a year from now. it's an important step for emerging economies like china, brazil, south africa to be the first to commit to the 2c goal. and finally, i think it's very important that the european union not only spoke with one voice, but that the european union changed the copenhagen approach, that it treated others as partners, with empathy, and that contributed a lot to the success of cancún.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. many are hailing the outcome of the cancun climate conference, which concluded last week, as a success, a breakthrough, a return of hope. but i think we can't talk about success until we have a legally binding, sanctionable international agreement to continue the kyoto protocol, which expires in 2012. but there was no decision in cancún on this, and some countries would prefer to abolish the protocol itself. the question of the use of the kyoto surplus, which is a key national asset for hungary, after 2013 thus remains open until the 2011 south african climate summit. the possibility remains that eastern european countries will be unfairly and unfairly deprived of the rewards they would receive under the kyoto regime for meeting their real emission reduction commitments, while the non-compliant parties are not penalized in any way. moreover, the largest emitters, the united states and china, are still not parties to the kyoto protocol, and so little progress has been made in halting global temperature rise. until, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, an international agreement is reached with a binding legal force, which is able to punish bad students and reward good ones, we cannot speak of success.
member of the commission. − to the first question, the answer is yes, based on the request, for both of these countries. i am ready to look at it and see what the commission can do to help. secondly, any nationalist race is a concern for the commission and is an issue which needs to be treated very seriously within the framework of our relations with the country. as you know, at the beginning of october we presented an opinion on albania. there have been a number of the so-called key priorities – 12 of them – which are preconditions albania must meet before we can recommend opening accession negotiations. within these 12 key priorities, my colleagues and i will make sure that the issue you have raised is tackled satisfactorily and that the commission makes no recommendation to start the accession talks unless questions, such as the one you raised, are dealt with satisfactorily. on the third question, i hesitate as to how to answer it briefly. i think we have seen some limited progress in this pre-election process. we are very keen to see the report of the osce/odihr monitoring mission. based on that, we are ready to take further steps on engaging belarus, but that will be an engagement across the board, having very much in mind the steps which are to be made by the belarusian authorities on the core issues of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. i will stop here and will provide a written reply on the current work of the commission and the member states on the joint interim plan about which i will be talking to you and your colleagues from euronest tomorrow, as well as the work on the mandate on the readmission agreement, the visa facilitation agreement and also additional information which would answer your question. i will also include my prepared speech.
the following is the report by mr bendt bendtsen, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the review of the energy efficiency action plan (2010/2107 (ini)) (a7-0331/2010).
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. my fellow members of parliament! we believe that the climate change that is increasingly affecting us today is not caused solely by human pollution. but it is our collective responsibility, both locally and globally, to curb the destruction of our environment and to try to restore it to its original, healthy state in whatever way we can. accordingly, the promotion of energy efficiency is also welcome. our buildings are responsible for about 40% of the world's energy consumption, so addressing this is of paramount importance. we need to move towards zero-carbon new buildings and address the challenges of improving the energy efficiency of existing buildings. in addition, we need to continue to reduce vehicle consumption and emissions by promoting the uptake of hybrid and pure electric technology. i believe that we, as representatives, as politicians, need to set an example in energy efficiency.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! the review of the 2006 energy efficiency action plan is an increasingly pressing task, as the energy efficiency targets are the most lagging behind of the eu's 20-20-20 targets. many initiatives are already moving in the right direction, but current results are dwarfed by untapped potential. europe was just beginning to recognise its backwardness and to realise that it could not afford the luxury of neglecting energy efficiency. these investments can reduce emissions more cheaply than any other solution and immediately boost the economy. the positive development is that, following the decision of the european parliament, the unused resources of the economic recovery programme can be used for energy efficiency improvements and green investments. the energy 2020 strategy published by the european commission in november also identified energy efficiency as a top priority. the bendtsen report now makes specific recommendations on how to exploit the opportunities more effectively. i am pleased that innovative solutions such as smart grids and escos implementing energy saving investments have been included in the recommendation. however, the most important issue remains financing. energy efficiency grants should also be included in the future long-term eu budget, with particular regard to the building reconstruction programmes of the former socialist countries. this is an area where even with relatively little spending, spectacular savings can be made.
in writing. it is in the vital interest of the union and of all its member states to get as much energy as possible from as little energy as possible this can reduce external energy dependence, increase energy security and increase the union's competitiveness. energy efficiency should therefore be a top priority for the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, and the principle should be made conditional on the call for energy tenders being made as widely as possible. the national action plan for hungary envisages very serious steps (from 2005 onwards) in both renewable energy and energy efficiency, in line with the objectives set in the europe 2020 strategy. the energy efficiency loan fund (eef) has been operating since 1991 to support energy efficiency investments by citizens. the hungarian government is also planning to improve the energy efficiency of the sector's largest consumers by 60% by modernising public institutions (installation of solar panels, insulation and modernisation of heating systems) on the basis of the draft comprehensive building energy and climate protection programme. these are fine plans, but their implementation has been seriously jeopardised by the financial and economic crisis that continues to this day. the commission should therefore pay close attention to national action plans and their implementation and to the transposition of existing eu directives into national legislation, which could be crucial for the implementation of the 2020 energy strategy and the achievement of co2 reduction targets. moreover, progress in this area can only be expected if the appropriate financial instruments are used and the legal framework is established.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. my fellow members of parliament! it is a fact that our children are the future, and it is therefore of the utmost importance that we ensure that they are safe, that they have access to quality, safe toys from an early age. but one element of making it safe is just defining the test method, and the most important is to comply with the law. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of personal data. we have heard many times about the unhealthy effects of cheap, cuddly toys, mainly from the far east. as a practicing father, i find that instead of being curbed by increased testing, these low-quality products are increasingly and widely being put into the hands of our children. the further inflow of these toys should be prevented and the spread of toys made of natural materials should be encouraged.
my fellow citizens! here an ideological debate has been unfolded, although many examples could be given of how the schroeder government implemented a very serious reform policy, or in hungary after 2006, the left government was restricted by all means in establishing fiscal discipline by the right-wing government in power. these are all pointless arguments. the key is that the european union finally does not pursue a policy of pursuing a situation, but one of creating a situation. it would be good if the european stability mechanism could be agreed at the weekend summit. the hungarian presidency, the hungarian government, which will take over the presidency of the union from january, will do everything possible to speed up the ratification process and to deal with the substantive requests, to give europe a boost.
madam president, members of the council, members of the commission, member states are trying to respond to the crisis that surrounds them with their own solutions, their own responses. once the council and the commission have set the strategic direction, the member states' solutions should be coordinated and coordinated. so there's very little sanctioning of member states when it comes to economic governance. of course, it would have been nice to see the consistency and rigor of some commissioners today, even when they turned a blind eye to data-meticalisation. i am convinced that the member states cannot be the only ones to blame for the failure to comply with the stability and growth pact, since the commission has just softened its control mechanism. it must be acknowledged that the austerity policy pursued so far has not led to any results. new and clear answers are therefore needed from you. innovative and motivating solutions. i can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that the next hungarian presidency will take on this coordination task.
rapporteur. − madam president, the european citizens’ initiative is a unique opportunity. it is the first time that european citizens can get together and let us know, with one strong voice, if they think that we, the european decision-makers, are not doing our job properly or missing out important issues. we badly need this. in a time when only 42% of the people who are entitled to vote in european elections take the time to actually vote, every new european instrument – especially an instrument like the eci – is of great importance. however, we realise that the high expectations that surround the eci may lead to disappointment and frustration. we can avoid this with a regulation that provides for its safe and efficient use, and we can help to bridge the famous gap between ourselves and european citizens. i would like to welcome the citizens here as well. mr lamassoure, ms wallis, mr häfner and i were all conscious of the huge responsibility on our shoulders. many points were raised during the discussions and we had to base our work on everyone’s strong sense of compromise. we were lucky to have good partners in this who showed reasonable flexibility and had the same goal as parliament’s rapporteurs, namely to reach an agreement as soon as possible, while maintaining the quality of our work and making sure that one year after the lisbon treaty we have a regulation for the most citizen-based provision of the treaty. i would like to thank commissioner šefčovič and the belgian presidency, particularly mr chastel, and their teams. we should also not forget the spanish presidency who contributed to advancing the dossier right at the beginning of the process. today we are presenting to you a compromise text which is supported by the commission and has also been adopted by the coreper. if we decide to support it and the council adopts it – which we hope – the regulation can enter into force on 1 january and be applicable 12 months later in 2012. we are pleased to say that the parliament’s key demands were accepted in the discussions. the admissibility check on an initiative will be based on clear criteria at the point of registration, not after many signatures have already been collected. to ensure the initiatives are well founded and have a european dimension, a citizens’ committee of at least seven members from seven member states should be set up to register an initiative. apart from reducing the risk of unserious initiatives, the citizens’ committee offers incontestable advantages for organisers as well. if the initiators of an eci are disorganised at the beginning of the process, they have a network and have many language versions of their initiative. they would have significantly less difficulty in collecting one million signatures. it is clear that, even though the requirement for the citizens’ committee initially seems to be a constraint, it would in reality streamline the rest of the procedure. the commission will help organisers of an initiative by providing a user-friendly guide and setting up a point of contact. if an initiative manages to collect one million signatures, a proper follow-up will be guaranteed, including a public hearing at parliament. the review of the regulation is of crucial importance as this tool is the first of its kind. as per our suggestions, it is extremely useful with regard to the difficult issue of how to verify the signatures. it is up to member states to do this, but we urged them to demand as little personal information as possible. member states will have some flexibility in choosing what information is required in each country, but i am glad to say that many of them are going for less data than originally planned. we believe that the regulation reflected in the compromise text is citizen-friendly and does not create cumbersome obligations for, and frustration amongst, the organisers.
the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has delivered an opinion. - as a member of the libe committee, i would like to join those who congratulated the rapporteurs and would like to thank the work of the commission and also the work of mr šefčovič and mr chastel in the council, who have contributed very much to the creation of a good, acceptable and really moving towards simplicity text, which i think will have very strong support. there was a lot of debate and a lot of good suggestions were put on the table. and the many good suggestions also meant that we had to combine all of these things to really make the final proposal as user-friendly as possible. getting a million signatures is a very big achievement, a very big job. we want to be able to reach out to those who can't contribute online but want to express their opinions on paper. we'd love to hear your feedback, and we'd love to fix any problems that arise on the ride as soon as possible. europe will surely be much, much richer with this tool.
madam president, the launching of the citizens’ initiative is unquestionably one of the most important developments in the process of european integration. it constitutes a qualitative redistribution of power within the european union and has the potential to generate significant innovation in european politics. the placing of citizens at the same level as parliament and council, by offering citizens the right to call on the commission to bring legislation forward, has far-reaching implications. for one, the new institution creates space to question one of the fundamental features of the way in which the entire integration process has been designed – namely that, from the outset, it has been elite-led. in many respects, this has been very successful but there is equally little doubt now that, without the active support of the citizens, the integration process runs into obstacles. indeed, there is growing evidence that citizens see the eu as remote, complex and impenetrable. they have had very little reason to engage with the eu because the means of doing so have been absent. this is what the citizens’ initiative will remedy. it sets up an instrument that has the capacity to bridge the gap between the eu and the demos. it is in everyone’s interest that the instrument should now work and should work as effectively as possible.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to thank my colleagues for all of their remarks. i am very glad that the majority among us is favourable to adding a new layer to our european democracy. it is completely natural and just to be expected that there are fears, but if we try our hand at something completely new we cannot answer all questions and calm all fears beforehand. however, i am confident that the regulation that we present today tackles many of the challenges that we could imagine during the preparation of the regulation. we should not be afraid of this new facet of democracy. we shall listen more clearly to european citizens’ voices, and we should not be afraid to do so. this is one of the long-term goals, is it not? we should only be afraid that the eci is used not in the spirit of the treaty, not for its intended purpose but abusively or not at all. we have done our best to reduce this risk in the regulation with the help of sylvia kaufmann, who made the first report on the eci in this parliament. i would also like to thank maroš šefčovič’s and alain lamassoure’s whole teams and our other colleagues. i would also to thank the team working for the hungarian presidency of the european union for their cooperation. i would like to underline that the implementation of the regulation is crucially important and, to this end, i would like to offer my help and cooperation to the incoming hungarian presidency. i am confident that the vote in an hour will support the compromise reached between the european institutions. this is the only way that we can give a nice christmas present to european citizens: a solid regulation on the european citizens’ initiative. let us not make them wait any longer. thank you very much for your attention and i would like to wish you, and all of the citizens here who bore witness to this, a merry christmas and a happy new year.
in writing. it is very important for citizens to have the opportunity as soon as possible to take initiatives in a predetermined way, within an appropriate framework, on the issues that most affect their lives. as you know, i am the head of the national association of the deaf and hard of hearing, one of the oldest organizations in hungary representing people with disabilities. based on my experience here, i can already say that the results of mr lamassoure and mrs gurmai's work will be tangible: citizens' initiatives. i am particularly disappointed that the million4disability initiative, launched in 2007 by the 80 million disabled people in the european union, which produced 1.35 million valid signatures, has failed to produce results. now there would be consequences, results, and i thank everyone for the work that has gone into this.
mr president, i just want to say that we are withdrawing amendment 14.
we all know that the financial crisis has led to the growing appeal of public pension schemes in many european countries, which offer greater security. many countries are reviewing their systems and are trying to strengthen the public system. although pension systems are fundamentally a matter of national competence, it is important to see where we are going in europe in these issues. i therefore welcome the fact that point 30 of the decision on the commission's work programme, which has just been adopted with the support of the three largest political groups in the european parliament, the people's party, the socialists and the liberals, stresses the need to strengthen the first, the public pension bill. my country, hungary, just yesterday took an important step in this right direction with a law passed yesterday. the debate on pensions in the union on the white and then the green papers should be conducted in this spirit, and this is what the european parliament is calling on the european commission to do, and i am therefore very pleased with this proposal.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. madam high representative, please. first of all, let me congratulate my colleague, mrs laima andrikienė, on her excellent work. the record number of modifiers put him in a very difficult position, which he did very elegantly and very well, and he produced a very good report. it is gratifying that the report focuses on the groups that are most vulnerable and most in need of protection, such as children, indigenous peoples and national minorities. i very much hope that our messages in this report will be open-minded about the structure of the foreign service and a future high representative for human rights. we expect hr ashton to give human rights a high priority in the new structure and to ensure that human rights are mainstreamed throughout the work of the foreign service, in addition to ensuring organisational conditions. the spirit of the lisbon treaty has created a new momentum which calls for more consistent action in this area too, and the absence of this spirit should not undermine the eu's credibility. i am particularly pleased, as rapporteur for the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the union, that this debate is being brought before parliament's plenary at the same time, that the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the union voted on today and the report on the situation of human rights now under discussion convey the message that we consider it important to protect fundamental and human rights both inside and outside the union, to enforce them consistently and to avoid double standards.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i apologize for the technical language, but i'm not asking mr arlacchi, i'm asking the lady in charge, with all due respect, just a small warning or a question. i'm an independent, so we have very few options for speaking. i don't have a chance to speak today. i came into this debate an hour early, and i went down very politely, and i signaled to the staff there that i wanted to speak. i accept that, of course, as i don't have time for that today or in this debate, of course i'll be giving my speech in writing today. i would like to ask the president-in-office to show more consideration and empathy for the independent members who unfortunately have so many opportunities to speak. thank you very much, and i wish you continued good work.
in writing. at a meeting of nato ministers in october 2008, john craddock, the head of nato's european forces, stated: russia's invasion of georgia has prompted nato to review its assumptions about the security of its member states. now, after the lisbon summit, is that statement still valid? the agreement with russia is a political move that can serve to consolidate our security. but it inevitably raises serious ethical and strategic questions. is nato prepared to renounce, in the interests of cooperation, the representation and defence of the democratic ideals on which the euro-atlantic alliance is based, which in many respects are in sharp contrast to the russian concept of democracy? perhaps it is unnecessary to remind you of the intimidation and harassment of people, the unexplained circumstances of the death of journalists and lawyers in russia. or it would be difficult to dismiss as a non-provocative gesture the recent nomination of wikileaks founder assange by russia for the nobel peace prize. will the prospects of prospective members be adversely affected if russia looks with disdain on their prospective nato membership? the question arises: do nato leaders take into account the vulnerability of certain member countries and their still open, pending issues with russia? the historical trend towards reconciliation and agreement is certainly welcome. at the same time, we must be clear about nato's historic responsibility to be a great power that is legitimate and loyal to our common european values, as a result of the agreement on the missile defence programme, to which it says a firm no.
rapporteur. − mr president, it is only about one year since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, which envisages considerable changes in the delegation of powers by the european parliament and council to the commission. a few months ago in this parliament, we discussed my report about delegated acts. delegated acts are when parliament and council delegate powers, but from now on, compared to the previous situation, we can take them back any time. we can set a deadline, we can change and we can veto if the commission is not in line with what the legislator wanted. in the case of the present regulation we are discussing based on article 291 of the treaty, we are speaking about implementing acts. in the case of implementing acts, the situation is a bit different. here, it is the member states which exercise their rights on how to implement the different legislation of the european union. so there is a clear difference. the new regulation and the new system of delegated acts gives us very wide powers. from parliament’s point of view, it changes our influence considerably, especially in certain areas of legislation. however, in the field of implementation, we have the right as parliament, as legislator, to regulate how the implementation procedure for the member state should go. i think parliament was right after long negotiations to take the position that we would like to confirm and get clear commitments from both the council and the commission that parliament’s rights are met. after very long negotiations, we have made very serious progress in this area which has influence and an effect not only – and particularly not only – in the area of implementing acts, but also on delegated acts. even in the case of implementing acts, parliament got and kept the right of scrutiny which means that, on the basis of the agreement with the other institutions, we have a procedure which we can apply. my first priority was that we could keep these important positions. there is also another issue here, which is that there are other ongoing discussions in this parliament represented by other committees – especially the committee on international trade, the committee on development and the committee on foreign affairs – and also between parliament and council on the legislation concerning financial instruments and whether and how they should be regulated. my goal in this framework was that this regulation should not prejudge this discussion. we want to help our colleagues who are fighting our position in an important discussion with the council so that we can finally end up with the cooperation of the council. finally, since my time is over, i would like to thank both the commission and the council for their flexibility in the negotiations. i understand that it was very difficult to get an agreement in council. i think this is the deal which parliament wanted and this deal can be satisfying for all members, especially because this is not only about the text we are discussing now, but we expect both the commission and council to take part in the common understanding concerning these important issues. we also expect declarations which make clear that there is a clear commitment from the commission for the alignment of the remaining part of the acquis communautaire. this text attached to my report should be satisfying for all members of this parliament.
rapporteur. − mr president, i should like to thank everyone for their contributions, both now and during the last nine months we have been working on this issue. first, a procedural thing. many colleagues have voiced their worries about the fact that we are rushing into a first-reading agreement under pressure from the council. both the commission and council and several colleagues involved in the negotiations can testify that the pressure was the opposite. it was parliament and myself who said to the council that if it did not reach agreement then the whole thing could fall apart. we got a very clear commitment from both the other institutions because like parliament, as mr šefčovič just mentioned, they are for the stability of the lisbon treaty. the later we accept, the later we adopt this kind of regulation, the longer the old comitology procedure – which we do not like because of its many problems – will go on. from that point of view, nine months is not a short time and could encompass two readings. there has been full transparency, and several colleagues can bear witness to that. i have been in the conference of committee chairs six times during these nine months and have also met with shadows and coordinators from all the committees. it was i who decided to go for agreement because we were getting everything i wanted. maybe the council and the commission do not like it, but we got everything. what does a rapporteur do when everything i and the different committees requested is there, although perhaps not in the form we want? mr de castro is right. his requests are not in the form of the text of this regulation, but this is about implementing acts, and they are there in the commission’s commitment. i have done this alignment – the omnibus – before, and the same commitment was given by the commission, which it honoured with very minor exceptions. in that sense, i thought i could trust this promise and if the commission does not honour it, i will stand up and claim it and align, as mr de castro is doing. in that sense, there is no pressure. the pressure came from me. through good cooperation in many difficult negotiations we agreed on something which i can unreservedly offer to the house to take on board. thank you very much to everybody, especially to the colleagues who took part in this very difficult process. i apologise to the general public, which does not understand a word of what we are discussing, but i can definitely say that transparency and parliamentary control of european union issues will be much better after this regulation is adopted.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. i can fully agree with the report's finding that there is a huge gap between the citizens of the union and those of the european member states, as more than half of them do not have a positive view of the union. by renaming the title 'european heritage' to 'european union heritage' and making amendments, we are launching yet another grandiose, costly and unnecessary eu self-promotion and propaganda campaign. apart from the trifles of naming the slovak nationalist and separatist monument to stefanik as an exemplary legacy of european union integration, this new initiative will not bring people closer to the union. it is also not clear why the title 'european heritage', if it does not want to duplicate the existing unesco world heritage list, wants to extend it to third countries and which countries does it mean?
the debate so far has made it clear that there is a serious conflict of interest between those who have made the switch to the new system and those who have not yet done so. but there is also a serious contradiction between the old and the new member states. i fully agree with mr kalinowski that the old member states had much more time to make the transition and even before accession they handed over the old, outdated structures to the new member states. however, it is clear that the rules must be respected and that the european union is again putting its own producers at a competitive disadvantage by imposing stricter standards on its own producers than those imposed on external suppliers for imports. not only does it require it, but it often fails to control it effectively. so i think that the european commission will now take another decision that puts eu producers at a disadvantage vis-à-vis external markets.
in writing. − i consider european values to be important, such as hungarian graffiti, which must be recognised and rewarded. in this case, however, the tradition of actually awarding the prize to assets located in the union should be maintained. it is unacceptable to extend this to third countries, because it would only double the unesco world heritage list. i am also confident that this prize will bring a return to traditional european values and that it will be a real recognition to win this title. i abstained from this vote because of the contradictions in the report.
in writing. − i am in favour of finding a solution to cases where a producer has already started the cage change but is unlikely to complete it before the end of the 12 year waiting period. these farmers should be helped to complete the development of their farms as soon as possible, despite their limited resources. that is why i supported this amendment.
mr. president, i have to go. my fellow members of parliament! i of course deeply condemn the way eritrean refugees are being treated and i of course support the european union taking steps to resolve the situation of eritrean refugees as soon as possible. but the direction that this report is taking is simply a dead end. two points i find quite amazing. to create a financial fund to help these refugees, that's perfectly acceptable to me, given that millions of people in the european union are living in insecurity and poverty. in hungary, 3 million people are destitute, most of the pensioners cannot afford their medicines, and this is a typical trend in europe, so first of all we should help the people of europe, in addition to, of course, looking at the refugees with empathy. the other is that member states adopt it on a voluntary basis. well, they should realize that the european union is saturated with immigrants, so the european union should mediate between eritrea and the eritrean refugees so that they can return home safely.
