mr president, i would like to join with colleagues who raised the issue of haiti. i know we will be having a debate on this during the part-session but there is one particular aspect i want to raise now and it is the fact that the united states is far better organised. yes, they are nearer to the region than the european union. individual member states have responded very well. we see, for example, the belgian air force in the vicinity. we are the biggest donor of aid in the world and when it comes to humanitarian aid we should be efficient in that donation. i believe it is time under the new lisbon treaty to look at having, on a rolling basis, a six-month standby team including large and small member states that will be able to deliver humanitarian aid where it is needed, on agreement between the institutions. it does not have to be the same standby group for each six months, it could change with the presidency, but there should be a standby group so that we can deliver aid under a humanitarian eu flag.
mr president, we must urgently renew our call – and when i say ‘we’ i mean parliament, the council and the commission – on israel to end the siege of gaza. a year ago over 1 400 died in the war in gaza, mostly civilians, including over 300 children. yet israel still prevents the rebuilding of homes, businesses, medical facilities, and the provision of clean water, sanitation and electricity while also blocking adequate food supplies. europe must also intervene to prevent the expulsion of journalist jared malsin, a us citizen, and insist that he should be allowed to continue his work with ma’an, the non-profit news agency in the west bank. the commission has blocked the fisheries agreement with guinea because government actions there resulted in the death of 150 demonstrators. why do we treat israel differently? it is time for europe to tell israel that our patience is at an end and that they must comply with international human rights law, including the right of the free press to be free from government interference.
mr president, haiti is a country in desperate need of help – whether it be medicine, food, water or shelter – at critical levels. tá an-chuid daoine sa cheantar ar bhuail an crith talún iad ag fanacht ar chabhair nach bhfuil tagtha go fóill. tá sé riachtanach go mbeidh an taontas eorpach chun tosaigh san fhreagracht idirnáisiúnta atá curtha i bhfeidhm le tacaíocht agus cúnamh a thabhairt do phobal háítí. to help alleviate the growing problem of food shortages, i strongly urge the european commission to include food aid – such as processed canned fish products – as part of the eu response for the people of haiti. i know that canned fish products are high in protein, have a long shelf-life and could be provided at short notice, as they were in the past. mar sin, iarraim ar an gcoimisiún eorpach agus ar na coimisinéirí a bhfuil freagracht orthu as cúnamh forbartha agus iascach, go háirithe, an togra seo a bhreithniú go práinneach. mr president, thank you very much for your indulgence.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i am sure the house would like to remember the missing un and eu staff and all of those who are missing and suffering in haiti at this time. i am also glad that commissioner de gucht is going there and that he will report to the committee on development when he returns on monday. that is a very welcome development. to use his own terms, the nature of the impact is unprecedented, and i think that that is a fair point to make in a country of this kind, which is why – and i mention this just in passing – i really do think that the european union has to be more visible. now that we have a high representative who is a vice-president of the commission, that person must be more visible on issues of this kind. the european union is the biggest aid donor in the world, donating 60% of aid, and we are probably the biggest donor of humanitarian aid as well. but, while one sees the us hospital ships there, all we see from the eu is member states going in from belgium and ireland and britain or wherever. there should be some visible eu presence. why not battle groups? why not some standing groups, on a rotating basis, who would be ready to go into the area when these sort of things occur? the last thing i want to say is that what has happened in haiti is grounded in poverty, and, when this terrible tragedy eases and it goes off the screens, let us not forgot haiti. it is time to tackle the underlying poverty situation in haiti once and for all.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, can i begin by wishing the high representative, baroness ashton, well in the many challenges that she faces during her mandate. as she knows well, and as the united nations has stated, the situation in haiti is the worst humanitarian disaster in decades, as the numbers of missing people, victims and deaths continue to rise. the human cost of this tragedy is immeasurable. while relief aid is beginning to arrive, we are all aware of the significant problems that aid workers are facing in trying to get assistance to those that need it most. increasing security, logistical and bureaucracy problems have been identified by the ngos on the ground as hampering aid and making a disastrous situation worse. these are the problems that are swaying the balance between life and death for haitians. in all the frayed work to alleviate the suffering and chaos, clear leadership and coordinated assistance are needed. ngos, government bodies, international organisations and local authorities must work together to deliver multisector emergency assistance to those in need. it is clear that the country needs massive international support immediately. the response from european citizens and their record generosity and solidarity have been immense. yesterday’s announcement of over eur 420 million in european union humanitarian aid for haiti shows leadership and commitment, but its delivery must be coordinated and effective. the european union’s stated aim is to consolidate and strengthen the global relief effort. i hope that you, mrs ashton, and commissioner de gucht work strongly towards this aim in the respective visits to the united states, haiti and elsewhere later this week. the long-term development of the poorest nation in the western hemisphere must become a priority. the allocation of eur 200 million in european union aid to help haiti rebuild in the long term is a positive start, but, when the cameras have left and the world’s attention is turned elsewhere, the european union, as a global leader, must act and live up to its responsibility.
mr president, one of the poorest countries in the world ravaged in just 15 seconds, the victim of bad government, the victim of dictatorship and corruption. fifty thousand people dead, thousands still missing and three million homeless. the united states’ response has been commendable, the united nations’ slightly less so, but i have to agree with everything that has been said. we are not being political in this, mr cashman: our response has been less than adequate. we have been left in the slipstream of the united states. the logistical difficulties will be overcome – clean water, medication, food and shelter – these will all happen in due course. but what haiti needs to emerge from this disaster is a fully functioning democracy with an economy that can sustain its people. its recovery must be measured over the years, and not just in the weeks and the months after this crisis. as has been said time and time again, it will disappear from the television sets. it will go from item one over the next two or three weeks to item three, and then it will be gone. but that is where the real challenge is, because in 2008 haiti was hit by two devastating hurricanes. poverty and desolation were left in their wake. the world leaders at that stage promised eur 600 million. only eur 40 million was actually delivered. what we need is the rebirth, the resurgence, the re-emergence and the redevelopment of haiti. it must be led and it must be managed in a proper fashion but, above all else, it must set down a clear and deliverable strategy to make haiti the proud, independent and democratic entity that it should be, but which it is not and has not been up to now, thus leading to the present catastrophe.
in writing. – the recent earthquake in haiti demonstrates to us all how fragile living on this earth can be. we have all been moved by the pictures and stories coming from the media in recent days. the response of the global community to this natural disaster has been amazing and i commend all of those who are helping with the relief effort or funding the relief effort from home. it will take generations for the people of haiti to fully recover from what will hopefully be a once in a lifetime event. it is important that this house shows solidarity to those people. it would be my hope that the european union could play a leading role in giving those people hope of a better future. emergency aid in the short term must be backed up with longer-term aid to help the future generations recover from this most horrific ordeal. the way members of this house, across all political groups, have responded to date has been extremely heartening. i look forward to working with my colleagues to do what i can for the people of haiti. the eu must aim to be an example of the well off always willing to give a hand-up to those less advantaged then ourselves.
acting president of the council. - i think that this wide-ranging debate has shown that we are facing a huge problem, a problem which is a huge challenge. i am glad that this debate took place on the very day that i spoke for the first time before the european parliament, which is certainly an honour, and that it was with these two important debates that we have had, tonight, in this important and powerful parliament. i think this huge problem cannot simply be mentioned or reflected upon, it must be faced with all the strength we have, because it is a very serious problem and the enemies we face are very strong. so it takes a lot of political will to address it. here tonight, we have certainly shown that great political will. i can tell you that the spanish presidency will demonstrate this by addressing this issue together with the other european institutions. i think we can also say that it is a problem to be tackled from europe. it has been very well said how this happens in europe, mrs hirsch has made this clear, and mr papanikolaou and mrs parvanova have shown the cross-border nature of this issue. it is happening in europe and it must be tackled from europe, which is why it has been repeated so many times, and i agree with it, the importance of the commission proposing as soon as possible a directive to tackle it from that perspective. i think mrs roithová has defined it very well in her speech. and we believe that the three main dimensions to be dealt with, to be highlighted in the regulation that is made from europe, in the work that is made from europe, have to be the following: first, protection of victims. the protection of victims is a central element, probably the most cited one here tonight. the authors of the question, mrs sargentini, mrs ernst, mrs thomsen and others, have pointed out the importance of protecting victims, who are usually women and children - the most vulnerable people - and mrs jiménez-becerril barrio, mrs kadenbach and mrs bearder have also pointed out very well the need to go to the victim protection order, which is an essential instrument and a priority of the spanish presidency. so firstly, protection for victims; secondly, relentless persecution, harsh punishment for traffickers - mr ziobro has made this very clear in his speech - and thirdly, we must reflect on the question of demand for these services. it is something that is difficult to deal with, but it is part of the problem and therefore i think it completes those three great dimensions on which i believe a whole global approach to this very important matter must be based, for which, i repeat to you, ladies and gentlemen, the spanish presidency is and will be absolutely committed.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, i believe that this debate has given a great deal of information on the preparation of the future directive, which i can of course confirm, mr minister, that the commission intends to present this spring. i would like to repeat the words of claude moraes, saying that we must fight this scourge with the most modern means, which is often also the result of the use of the most modern methods, and that we must fight all forms of exploitation. you have just said, mr minister, that there are three pillars: the victims, the severity of the sanctions and then the problem of demand. i would like to emphasize a little on victims, the protection of victims, because we have already negotiated in the framework decision unconditional support for all victims, immunity from criminal prosecution, the right to legal assistance and we intend to deal in the future directive with housing, medical and psychological treatment, advice and information, in a language which the victim understands, and then with all the additional forms of support. i would add, in reply to mrs záborská, that the commission will indeed deal with the prevention of this scourge and the protection, return and reintegration of children who are victims of human trafficking in an action plan on the situation of unaccompanied minors, which was, moreover, a strong request from the spanish presidency. we will therefore propose this action plan, which will be adopted by the college in spring 2010, for consideration by the council and the european parliament. this action plan will propose several ways to address the main challenges posed by this phenomenon, which affects unaccompanied minors arriving in the european union in different contexts, and will be guided by the best interests of the child. but mrs. záborská is also right; the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take measures to ensure that the internet is used in a safe manner. as you said, mr minister, the political will exists in the european parliament. i believe that the commission has already prepared this draft directive well. it will be submitted shortly, and i would like to thank parliament for not only giving its full support but also for a whole series of very interesting ideas that have emerged in this debate. and i thank all the speakers again, considering that the european parliament has a major role to play in the fight against this great scourge.
i scríbhinn. – ní dheanann iad siúd atá i mbun gáinneála ar dhaoine aon idirdhealú idir fir, mná nó leanaí chomh fada is gur féidir leo airgead a dhéanamh ón duine sin a gháinnéalú. agus is go minic 'siad leanaí is mó atá i mbaol. dar leis an ilo go bhfuil thart ar 218 milliún páiste i mbun saothair san lá atá inniu ann. ní féidir uimhir chinnte a thabhairt, áfach, toisc go bhfuil na leanaí seo curtha i mbun striapachais, sclábhaíochta, oibre éigeantais is rl, réimsí nach féidir teacht ar fhigiúirí cearta dóibh. tá sé práinneach go rachadh an ae i ngleic le gáinnéail i margadh an tsaothair. is cúis misnithe dom go tosaíocht í seo don uachtarántacht spáinneach agus bheinn ag súil go n-oibreodh baill an chomhairle le chéile chun ceisteanna gáinnéala ar dhaoine agus saothar leanaí a chur i gcroílár reachtaíochta an ae agus go dtabharfar aghaidh ar na ceisteanna seo i gcomhthéacs comhaontuithe trádala ach go háirithe. tá freagracht ar an ae, de thoradh an róil súntasaigh atá aige i gcursaí trádála domhanda agus a ghealltanais i leith ceart daonna a chosaint, dul i ngleic le gáinneáil ar dhaoine agus le saothar páistí.
in writing. – the trafficking of human beings is deplorable anywhere in the world, but particularly disgraceful in the european union given our high levels of internal cooperation and resources. in particular, the trafficking of young women for use in the sex trade is a relic of europe’s fragmented past and must become an aspect of european history. in this regard the union must commit over the five-year term of the incoming commission to increase border security, and to implore national governments to do more to tackle the sex trade, particularly when it involves young women who have been trafficked from another country. currently, the laws exist in most countries but are simply not being enforced.
in writing. – the problem of the trafficking of human beings has been with us for a long time, but in stead of getting to grips with the issue, member states stand indicted for our individual and collective failure to deal with this exploitation and degradation of women. while free movement facilitates trafficking in terms of the removal of border controls, on the other hand one would imagine that increased police co-operation should be in a position to tackle the problem. what is clear is that the political will is not there. the may 2005 "council of europe convention on the action against trafficking in human beings" has only been ratified by nine countries two thirds of women trafficked for prostitution come from eastern europe and yet countries like the czech republic and estonia have not signed the convention. apart from the political will not being there the police will is not there either. the number of convictions is deriving in terms of the problem; police do not see human trafficking as a crime.
mr president, one of the changes the prime minister spoke of this morning is the citizens’ initiative. indeed, i think it is fitting that one of the countries whose citizens voted ‘yes’ to the constitution is the country that will start the implementation of the lisbon treaty. indeed, many times when i was canvassing for a ‘yes’ vote in ireland on the lisbon treaty, i quoted spain and the spanish people. but we as politicians have a responsibility to ensure that, while citizens are aware of the real potential of the citizens’ initiative, they are also aware of its limitations. we know that it is not just a question of one million signatures on any issue. the issue must come within the competence of the union and we must not promise more than we can deliver. secondly, this morning, you mentioned food security, prime minister. i am pleased to see that in the agriculture council you are making progress with the issue of improving the functioning of the food supply chain. food security cannot – and will not – be guaranteed unless our farmers can earn a fair and reasonably stable income. finally, prime minister, well done on your initiative to stamp out gender violence; i look forward to hearing the details.
in writing. – europe's objective is a comprehensive peace agreement in the middle east with a two-state solution at its heart. we want a secure state for israelis and a viable democratic state for palestinians, based on the pre-1967 borders. but we are at one minute to midnight for such a solution. the clear council statement of december 8th needs to be driven forward with vigour and determination by you. creating conditions for early palestinian elections is a key to progress. europe should make it clear that it will treat with those elected in new elections regardless of their political affiliation, on the basis of a commitment to implementing agreements accepted by the palestinian people. european policy from now on concerning israel, the palestinian authority and hamas, must be predicated on the movement by them without delay into serious final status negotiations based on the quartets roadmap and the arab peace initiative. we must insist that the israeli siege of gaza and the appalling human suffering that it is causing for the 1.5million inhabitants should be lifted immediately and without preconditions. unless europe takes courageous steps now and encourages the usa to do likewise the situation could very quickly become irretrievable.
mr president, with your permission i just want to make a point regarding time-keeping because far too often here in this house too many people are going way over their time – and they are allowed to do so. some take nearly double the time allotted. i would appeal to the president and vice-presidents to use their gavel to effect, so that time-keeping is within the rules and that those who want to come in on catch-the-eye etc. have an opportunity to do so.
in writing. − i fully support the re-election mr nikiforos diamandouros to the office of european ombudsman. the european ombudsman investigates complaints against the institutions and bodies of the european union. the ombudsman must be an independent, non-partisan, and, impartial public servant. mr diamandouros has proven himself to be a highly professional and efficient advocate on behalf of the citizen. he has not been fearful of being critical of any european institution, including the european parliament, when necessary. now that the charter of fundamental rights has the same legal value as the treaties, i am confident that the charter, and especially, the right to good administration, will be at the heart of mr diamandouros' work as ombudsman.
in writing. − dear colleagues, i rise today in appreciation of the work of our ombudsman, mr. nikiforos diamondouris. he has executed his duties in line with all of the rules and he has done so with independence and integrity. he is someone who is championing the principal that eu institutions must be transparent. let's be frank colleagues, our citizens are not as engaged in european affairs as we would like them to be. therefore it is necessary that our eu institutions operate as if from behind a pane of glass. this ombudsman has so far demonstrated an ability to operate with this principal so i welcome his re-appointment. many thanks.
i scríbhinn. − vótáil mé ar son na tuarascála maidir leis an dara athbhreithniú ar an gcomhaontú um chomhpháirtíocht acc-ae (comhaontú cotonou). is tuarascáil thráthúil í seo agus is ceart agus cóir go ndéantar plé leanúnach ar cheist na gcomhaontuithe comhpháirtíochta eacnamaíochta. is iad príomhaidhmeanna chomhaontú cotonou ná deireadh a chur le bochtanas, tacaíocht a thabhairt d’fhorbairt inbhuanaithe agus go dtiocfadh tíortha an acc i lánpháirtíocht leis an ngeilleagar domhanda. tá sé riachtanach go rachaidh na comhaontuithe agus cainteanna trádála atá ar bun faoi láthair, agus iad siúd a dtabharfar fúthu amach anseo, i dtreo forálacha an ae agus a chomhpháirtithe ar shaothar leanaí a chomhlíonadh agus a láidriú. baineann airteagal 50 de chomhaontú cotonou le caighdeáin chóra oibreachais a chur chun cinn agus le bearta idirnáisiúnta a fheabhsú chun deireadh a chur le saothar leanaí. caithfear tús áite i gcomhaontuithe trádála an ae a thabhairt do cheisteanna saothair leanaí. anuas ar seo, fearaim fíorfháilte roimh na hairteagail sa tuarascáil a iarrann ar an ae agus an acc díospóireacht a thosú ar thodhchaí an chaidrimh acc-ae ó 2020 ar aghaidh agus a mholann ról níos mó a thabhairt do pháirtithe neamhspleácha, i.e. eagraíochtaí nach stáit ná rialtais iad, sa phróiseas seo.
in writing. − i support this report which asserts that the second revision of the acp-ec partnership agreement must be consistent with the actual global crisis and be carried out in a way that fully respects a partnership of equals. this current second revision of the agreement is a great opportunity to address the root causes of financial, climate change, food and energy crises, and, to learn from past mistakes bringing meaningful changes to the cotonou framework, as well as enhancing acp unity, cohesion and solidarity. the report calls for a stronger reinforcement of the human rights clauses and sanctions. also the report expresses our regret that parliaments (european parliament, jpa and national parliaments of the acp states) were not consulted by the member states and had no input in the decision-making process leading to the identification of the areas and articles for revision and to the establishment of the negotiating mandate. the primary objective of the cotonou agreement is the reduction and, eventually, the eradication of poverty in a way consistent with the objectives of sustainable development and the gradual integration of the acp countries into the world economy.
in writing. − dear colleagues, it is with delight today that i address this parliament as we have moved towards a more equal role in the relationship between richer and poorer countries while strengthening human rights. the revision of this agreement must be consistent with the needs of the new world we live in and must be based on a partnership of equals. this is a new world with a new economy where fair distribution of wealth and tackling climate change are new priorities. i wish to commend the work of my own group in the european parliament who have inserted those principals of eradication of poverty into this revision.
mr president, the hope generated by years of preparation descended into despondency and despair as it became increasingly clear that the deal we had come to agree in copenhagen was slipping from our grasp as each day passed. we must be concerned about how easy it was for the us, china and others to circumvent the un structures, sideline the eu and agree an arrangement which fell far short of global expectations. one thing is clear. the un climate talks system needs life-saving surgery before mexico at the end of this year. as it stands, president obama is a prisoner of his political system, for he needs 67 votes in the senate. china refuses all measures which would be binding and open to international scrutiny. the irony of the situation is that, the longer the us, china and others frustrate, delay and prevaricate on a deal, the tougher the targets for reduction will, of necessity, become. let us look at solutions. the eu and this parliament need to examine honestly how it approaches such matters in the future. europe must be much more assertive in standing up for itself and, in doing so, should continue to set ambitious targets involving targets and emissions reductions of 30%. this is an economic race to lead the world into the 21st century based on green jobs and sustainable living. europe must win that race regardless of what our friends do or do not do.
mr president, just as one swallow does not make a summer, neither does one cold winter disprove theories of climate change and global warming. indeed, for more and more people the evidence is overwhelming because both the scientific evidence and the visual evidence prove that there is climate change. people have described the copenhagen conference as a flop and a failure. i think it could be more accurately described as a little step in the right direction: one small step in the right direction. but the challenge now is, in mexico, to turn that small step into a giant leap for mankind. for us in the european union, in particular, it is a major challenge, to show that the new institutions and the new positions created in the lisbon treaty are effective. if we are marginalised, as happened in copenhagen… (the president cut off the speaker.)
madam president, can i say to the minister that it is my experience that some banks – by no means all banks, but some banks; perhaps even a lot of banks – behaved irresponsibly during the financial market growth and some banks – perhaps, again, not all banks, but many banks – are continuing to behave irresponsibly in the time of the budding weeks and months of recovery. i am aware, for example, of one particular company in dublin, very well run, where the man is meticulous in meeting his commitments and the bank is far from helping him. it has taken the opportunity to reduce his overdraft and put him under pressure in his business – a business that is viable, a business that will survive this recession. please, minister, take these banks in hand, tell them we are giving them taxpayers’ money and we expect them to take the public interest into account, not just the interests of their shareholders – some of them very wealthy shareholders.
i would like to wish the spanish presidency well. i think you are off to a very good start this week. so, ¡viva españa! can i just say in relation to the question itself that trees provide a carbon sink in that they absorb co2 emissions. the tragedy as regards the amazon basin, 60% of which is in brazil, is that the ruthless destruction of the beautiful amazon forest is obvious: for example, 4.1 million km2 have been destroyed so far. it removes the carbon sink; it destroys a way of life, by virtue of the fact that the amazon red indians are being wiped out; thirdly, from the point of view of agricultural production, we know that the standards of production in no way meet eu standards of compliance. at the end of the day, is there anything we can really do, or are we just talking?
as you have rightly said, it is estimated that by 2050 the number of people with dementia will have doubled in europe. as a result it is vital that member state governments address the specific needs of people with dementia and provide essential support for carers. at present, however, many european union countries do not have plans in place to develop national strategies for dementia; so my question is: how will the council specifically support member states to make dementia a public health priority?
i wish to thank the council for the reply. can i ask the council what its attitude is in relation to the tube-feeding of patients with alzheimer’s, which is a widespread practice in the united kingdom and ireland? i do not know about the rest of europe. what we are talking about is feeding a tube into the abdomen. the council spoke about guidelines. guidelines and standards are very important, but the justification for this particular procedure is that it gives the patient sufficient nourishment in order to ensure that, even though they have dementia – they have refused food and so on – that they will actually live, but to me there is something very bizarre about it. what is your attitude to it, and are you going to set down standards?
as part of the proposed financial supervision, would the spanish presidency consider making recommendations as regards best practice to cap the salaries of the ceos of the major banks, and also to limit the grotesque bonus culture that has fuelled much of the difficulties and landed us in the mire we are now in?
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, all who are committed to democratic rights and freedom of religious expression will condemn outright the murder of christians in egypt and also the firebomb attacks on christian churches in malaysia. we should also note the growing numbers of attacks on religious minorities in europe itself and equally condemn that. in malaysia, the tactic of divide and rule on racial and religious lines has long been used by various elements of the economic and ruling elites. the present national front government is guilty of hypocrisy in this regard: while publicly proclaiming a ‘one malaysia’ policy claiming to embrace all religions and minorities, it manoeuvres behind the scenes, using religious and racial divisions to try and bolster its own position among the majority muslim malay population, as it did in relation to the ‘allah’ ruling. there are also huge divisions economically in malaysia. it is the most unequal society in south-east asia. the current government rules on the basis of crony capitalism. this is the result, with exploitation rife in the workplace, trade union rights severely limited. the best background for religious freedom and democracy in egypt and malaysia and elsewhere is, indeed, economic justice and democracy, where wealth and power are in the hands of the big majority of working people and the poor and removed from major corporations and crony capitalists.
a uachtaráin, tá rialtas na héireann chun suas le 21 faoin gcéad cáin bhreisluacha a ghearradh anois ar sheirbhísí poiblí a chuireann na húdaráis áitiúla i láthair; seirbhísí amhail bailiú bruscair agus athchúrsáil. cuireann an taontas eorpach iallach ar rialtas na héireann na cánacha nua seo a chur i bhfeidhm. cuirfidh siad ualach níos troime fós ar an ngnáthlucht oibre agus ar dhaoine bochta atá ag íoc go géar cheana féin as an ngéarchéim chaipitileach in éirinn. chomh maith leis seo, tá sé ar intinn an rialtais táillí nua a chur ar uisce do shealbhóirí tí a d'fhéadfadh a bheith idir eur 500 agus eur 1000 in aghaidh na bliana. buille nua uafásach a bheadh ansin do chaighdeán maireachtála an lucht oibre. ach chomh maith leis sin, is ullmhúchán é chun an córas poiblí uisce a phríobháidiú sa todhchaí. tugaim foláireamh do rialtas na héireann agus don choimisiún eorpach chomh maith atá i bhfabhar táillí agus príobháidiú, nach nglacfar é seo agus go mbeidh feachtas ollmhór baghcait agus cumhacht cosmhuintire ina aghaidh. seo ualach breise eacnamaíochta nach nglacfaidh lucht oibre na héireann leis.
mr president, taxation is absolutely vital for the running of countries – i think most citizens would agree with that. nevertheless, many citizens do not welcome the paying of taxes with open arms and with a smile. this goes back to the time of our lord, when he pointed out that one of the most despised species in his time was the tax collector, who was seen as a villain. i am not sure if their status has gone up a whole pile in the mean time. now they are regarded as revenue commissioners, but they probably would not win any popularity contests. nevertheless, side by side with that is the fact that, historically, those who evaded tax were sometimes seen as almost heroes, outfoxing the government. now, thankfully, that too is changing, but at the same time taxation evasion is rife throughout the country and throughout the world. even in my own country, in the 1980s and 1990s the banks themselves were providing offshore addresses for people for the purpose of evading tax. when that was found out, then, of course, the individual had to pay. now, what we need to do in the future is to ensure that tax evasion is cut down. the oecd estimates that 2.5% of global gdp is lost through tax evasion. cigarette smuggling is a case in point, where cigarettes have moved from low-tax to high-tax economies, causing terrible damage to health and, of course, also to finances. at the same time, the eu is limited by what it can do, because the lisbon treaty does not give it great competences in the area of tax. that came up in the lisbon treaty in the guarantees given to ireland. for that reason there can be no common consolidated corporate tax base, and the principle of fair tax competition must remain. so what we have to do is, by collaboration, cooperation, conviction and persuasion, try and get things moving ahead – but we cannot do it by compulsion.
in writing. – i just wish to raise one particular appoint regarding co-operation on taxation of member states. this was a major issue of sensitivity of during the irish referendum campaign on the lisbon treaty. there is just a note of caution i wish to give my colleagues in the parliament. co-operation of member states is the foundation of this union, however that co-operation has always been based on mutual consent. what we must be careful of in the field of taxation is not taking into account the needs of certain member states. certain countries need to apply rules differently if for example they are an island, or a country that does have a population to support a large, functioning market you need to use every advantage at your disposal to attract investment. i call on colleagues to bear this in mind when making proposals on this matter. proposals should not interfere with state's subsidiarity and on the matter. any proposals will need the approval of member states. it is not an unimportant element to this debate. go raibh maith agat.
madam president, firstly i would like to empathise with my belgian colleagues as i am involved with the dell workers in my own constituency who lost their jobs when the factory relocated to poland. i can understand their position perfectly well. from my experience, i would point out a few things to them. firstly, it is absolutely paramount that the help is activated as quickly as possible because, once the clock starts ticking, the commission’s hands are tied and they cannot extend it without legislation, and that will not happen for some time, if at all. secondly, whatever help is given must be worker-centred, not to workers fitting into preordained courses etc. that state agencies may have. that is absolutely crucial. i am involved with the workers at dell and that particular issue at the moment. so i would say to my colleague ivo belet and others that it would perhaps be interesting for us to get together, exchange experiences and keep working as this process progresses. i endorse it completely.
mr president, let me agree with colleagues who say that more legislation is not the answer if we are not implementing existing legislation on equality. secondly, as someone who grew up with the movement for more equality, i worry that young women think the battle is over. therefore we need to invigorate the debate amongst young women and young men about the equality agenda. on the economic crisis, yes it is affecting women, but, of course, when men lose a job, women are also affected. i think we need to be very clear that the economic crisis affects everybody, particularly families. on paragraphs 34 and 35, i fully agree and would endorse the call for those countries which have not done so to ratify the european convention on action against trafficking in human beings. i hope that the irish government lives up to its commitment to do so this year. domestic violence is a horrible reality: many women are indeed murdered in their own homes. we have had a recent court case involving an incident of that kind in ireland. paragraph 38, however, fails to respect the subsidiarity clause in relation to abortion, and i think it needs amending.
mr president, the title of the debate here this evening is ‘equality between women and men’, yet most speakers, when dealing with the issue, said ‘between men and women’. that, i think, in part answers the question asked by mrs lulling about why more progress has not been made since 1975. the reason is tradition. it is cultural. women were seen to have an inferior, subordinate role. that still exists in many countries worldwide and it is a big challenge to change it. thankfully, however, the eu has made good progress and nowhere probably more than in this parliament where, numerically and attitudinally, there is real equality. that needs to continue through legislation, through targets and through directives. the point was also made that we should have more information for young girls. i agree, but we also need more information for young boys, particularly to offset the damage that has been done by many films and many television programmes which are not at all conducive to creating an equal society in the spirit of equality. there is a lot of work to be done there and we need to start doing it.
mr president, i want to raise an issue here that i have been raising in my own country in the hope that, by raising it from the top down and the bottom up, we might somehow get some action on it. we are constantly talking about the banking crisis and what we can do for small and medium-sized enterprises. the problem is that there are many small and medium-sized enterprises that simply cannot get loans, even though they have viable businesses and can give employment. the biggest reason for that, in my experience, is the absence of bank managers. we got into this crisis because the banking system was on automatic – and, in many cases, it is still on automatic. the european central bank and the european commission have given a lot of support to the financial institutions. it is time now that we returned, and used every influence we have to return, to the traditional bank manager, who can make calculated risk based on character, ability and track record. i really think that would make a difference, and i say this to the 27 commissioners here present: do not underestimate your ability to influence… (the president cut off the speaker.)
mr president, like the election of a pope, i hope we will be able to say this evening ‘habemus papam; habemus commission’, but one area that concerns me and a lot of people is that in the lisbon treaty we were to appoint a president of the council to give clarity. i am not sure whether the clarity is there, and maybe president barroso could answer that for us. when push comes to shove, at a time of crisis, who is going to be the one voice representing europe? is it going to be mr van rompuy? is it going to be baroness ashton? is it going to be one of the commissioners? is it going to be the rotating presidency, or is it going to be president barroso himself? i would like an answer to that.
mr president, i voted against the appointment of the new eu commission because it will simply continue with the same right-wing, neoliberal economic policy that has already resulted in disastrous crisis in the capitalist economies of many eu states. this – allegedly new – eu commission will turn out to be the same stale old wine with the same old neoliberal barroso label. these policies of liberalisation, deregulation and privatisation – implemented, let us be clear, at the behest of european big business – are having disastrous consequences for the lives of working-class people, with mass unemployment and savage attacks on living standards. in its attitude to the crisis in greece and in ireland, the leadership of the eu commission is agreed that it is the working class who will pay the price, while the bankers and speculators are baled out. european workers and the poor in europe must mobilise their power against these disastrous policies and for a genuinely democratic and socialist europe, and that means opposing the policies of this new eu commission.
mr president, i was pleased to vote in favour of the commission today because i think, in the circumstances and under the rules of the house, it was the right thing to do. we need a commission, and we have one now. however, the point has been made – and well made – by a number of colleagues that it would be a better system if each of the commissioners were elected on their own merits rather than en bloc. after all, if you were putting out a football team to represent you, you would not select them en bloc. you would select each player on his merits so that you get the best possible result. i think we should work towards that situation and to reform the rules to ensure that the next time we are electing a commission each of them would be elected on merit. that would force the countries to put forward the best possible candidates and ensure that candidates would perform to the maximum. i think we would have a better team by doing that. but, in the mean time, i look forward to working as closely as possible with the commission over the next five years.
in writing. − along with my political group, the socialists and democrats, i was very pleased with the final make-up of the incoming commission. in particular the environment and energy commissioners will be pivotal to the development of europe in the coming years, and i am satisfied that president barroso has chosen the correct representatives.
in writing. − we all wish this new commission well. their priorities are many but there is no doubt of the one area that we all agree on is for the need to create jobs. this should be the major pillar on which this new commission is judged. let's be frank about it, many of the member states have or are facing economic collapse. reversing this situation and developing a smart, social market economy where the eu is a global leader across all fields of economic life will be the measure of this commission. it is my hope particularly that the irish commissioner, ms. geogheghan quinn, takes a leading role in the new commission with her innovation and research portfolio. she will play a critical role in europe's recovery and i wish her well with this.
madam president, thank you for indulging so many one-minute speeches on this issue. the new commission, i presume, is pleased to be in place, but it is going to have to hit the ground running because of the problems we are discussing here. there are those who are revelling in the problems of the eurozone, but i think the bulk of us want to see a resolution. ten years on, i do not think we should throw the baby out with the bathwater. having said that, it is very clear from listening to this debate that there are serious problems in some member states, and the severity varies among those with problems – and ireland is one of those. however, the rules in my view have not been effective. we need to pre-empt rather than react: when a crisis is with us, it is too late. we need to be ahead of the markets; you cannot buck the markets as others have tried to suggest we can, so we need to have strict and timely supervision and scrutiny and then immediate action. i wish you well.
a uachtaráin, is cúis imní dúinn ar fad staid stoc an tuinín ghoirm san atlantach agus sa mheánmhuir. ní féidir an fhaisnéis eolaíochta a shéanadh. mar sin féin, tá dianiarrachtaí déanta ag iccat – an coimisiún idirnáisiúnta atá freagrach as caomhnú an tuinín ghoirm agus as an stoc a aischur agus a chaomhnú. má luaitear an tuinín gorm in aguisín i de cites beidh cosc iomlán ar fad air ar feadh deich mbliana ar a laghad. to treat the fishing industry in europe in this way is unacceptable. it is vitally important that iccat is allowed to do its job. for example, in 2006 the total allowable catch was 36 000 tonnes. the total allowable catch for this year has been reduced to 13 500 tonnes. in 2011, as iccat have proposed, this will undergo a reduction of at least 50% to under 6 750 tonnes. further reductions in the total allowable catches will occur in 2012 and 2013. the measures undertaken by iccat must be carefully monitored. if they are proven to be unsuccessful, then a total ban under appendix i must be considered. from an irish perspective – and let me say that we have no vested interest apart from the fact that we have a bycatch of 100 tonnes of bluefin tuna – are we to catch bluefin tuna by way of a bycatch, and when they are caught and killed to put them back into the sea? that is certainly not a sensible way to proceed. i believe it is important to take sensible and realistic measures to protect both stocks and the fishing sector in europe. while there are people here who are most anxious to protect tuna, let me say to those people who might come from rural areas depending on fishing, you must also think of the other endangered species – that is, our fishermen. therefore, i will be voting for the amendment to include bluefin tuna under appendix ii.
mr president, if you will pardon the pun, i think this is a catch-22 situation for many of us because, if we ban the catching of fish, and particularly of bluefin tuna, fishermen will go out of existence. if we do not ban it, then there will be nothing to catch. i think one of the key elements here – and it is constantly coming up in many of our debates – is the scientific evidence. people have said that the scientific evidence is not reliable enough, it is not extensive enough and it is not up-to-date enough. i would like to ask the commission and the council, are they happy with the scientific evidence that is being produced? because you can quote scientific evidence but then somebody might come along with a different example of a recommendation from other scientists. so i think that is a key element in this, and i would like to hear what the commission and the council have to say about it.
mr president, i came to the chamber to be educated, or at least i hoped that would happen, because there are two very valid sides to this debate, in particular concerning bluefin tuna. the first point i would make is that we have spoken about illegal fishing practices, and it seems to me that illegal practitioners do not care about what appendix anything is in. they will continue unless we have effective policing of these rules and regulations. on the one hand, we can see some of the logic for an appendix i classification, but there are socioeconomic issues. i think we need to focus on the results. there is the issue of discards and the impact of an appendix i categorisation on this matter for fishermen. i am inclined to the view – but will be talking to colleagues later to discuss it within our group – that it should not be classified in appendix i, and perhaps appendix ii is the place. it goes to show that even with the length and quality of this debate there is still some confusion, in my mind at least.
mr president, firstly i would like to compliment my colleague mr van nistelrooij for his industry and leadership in this very important area. owning a house is something i think many people aspire to, and it reminds me of the first lines of a poem i leant from an irish poet a long time ago. it went, ‘oh, to have a little house! | to own the hearth, the stool and all! | the dresser filled with shining delph, | the pile of turf against the wall!’. and i think what we are doing here today is helping to bring that dream into reality for many people across the european union, but specifically the roma community. it has been pointed out and, having discussed it, we suggest that it should be expanded to other marginalised groups. in particular, i had in mind my own area of limerick where, in places like myross and southill, they have suffered hugely due to drug-pushing and violence associated with it. there is now a need for a major regeneration to alleviate these terrible situations. under these proposals, that can be done, and also it will be very important in kick-starting the building industry, which has suffered hugely right across the european union as a result of the economic downturn. so, we are moving at the right time and it can benefit the most marginalised so that they can all look forward to having a house, a hearth, a stool and the shining delph.
mr president, could we take that vote again as some people thought they were voting on the section to which the other member referred? are we here to vote as we were elected to do, or not? please put it to the vote again so that people can make the right decision.
in writing. − i support this report which extends eligibility of housing interventions in marginalised communities to the european regional development fund (erdf). under the new rules, all member states will be able to avail of such eu funding to improve the conditions of marginalised households previously on available to member states which joined since 2004. physical degradation of housing stock denies its occupants the right to decent living conditions and is a major obstacle to integration and social cohesion. this regulation will allow for housing renovation projects to draw on the erdf but, in order to counter segregation risks, these initiatives must be part of a wider social integration framework in the fields of health, education and social affairs.
i scríbhinn. − vótáil mé i bhfabhar an rúin seo agus ar son an chúnaimh airgeadais a thabharfaidh an taontas eorpach ar mhaithe le tacaíocht fhadtéarmach agus atá le riaradh i gcomhar leis na húdaráis áitiúla agus le pobal háítí. caithfear an t-airgead seo a úsáid le dul i ngleic le bunchúiseanna bochtanais háítí, le cabhair a thabhairt don tír an struchtúr daonlathach a láidriú agus le geilleagar inbhuanaithe a thógáil. tá cúrsaí i háítí ag dul i bhfeabhas le tamaillín anuas, buíochas le dia, agus tá an chabhair dhaonnúil á dáileadh go héifeachtach agus in ord tosaíochta; a bhuíochas sin don chomhoibriú agus don chomhordú atá idir eagraíochtaí idirnáisiúnta, eagraíochtaí neamhrialtasacha agus pobal háítí agus iad ar fad ag obair as lámha a chéile.
i scríbhinn. − vótáil mé i bhfabhar na tairisceana i gcomhair rúin seo toisc go gcaithfimid a chinntiú gur tosaíocht phraiticiúil agus mhorálta í aghaidh a thabhairt ar cheist na gáinneála ar dhaoine agus ar an tslí a atá an gháinneáil sin á húsáid mar acmhainn sa mhargadh saothair. faoi chonradh liospóin tá an chumhacht agus an deis ag an aontas eorpach beartas eorpach i leith na gáinneála ar dhaoine a láidriú. mar a dúirt mé le linn na díospóireachta ar an rún seo, caithfidh an cheist seo a bheith in áit thábhachtach ar an gclár oibre. tá freagracht ar an aontas eorpach, mar gheall ar an ról suntasach atá aige i gcúrsaí trádála domhanda agus a ghealltanais i leith cearta an duine a chosaint, dul i ngleic le gáinneáil ar dhaoine agus le saothar leanaí go háirithe.
in writing. − i abstained on the vote on the domenici report despite the vast majority of sensible proposals contained in it. there is a need for continued detailed debate on the various issues it raises. it is on the one hand necessary to ensure that different corporate tax regimes do not enable companies to evade their responsibilities to support society by a share of their profits through a fair corporate tax regime. however, particular attention needs to be given to the negative impact that a ccctb could have on small countries such as ireland, whose prosperity and employment levels depend to a large extent on its capacity to attract foreign investment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on promoting good governance in tax matters, which is key to rebuilding the global economy. it requires transparency, exchange of information, cross-border cooperation and fair tax competition. it would discourage tax fraud and evasion to the competitive advantage of tax compliant businesses and reduce pressure on governments to lower corporate tax rates which shifts the tax burden onto workers and low-income households while forcing cutbacks in public services any european agreement on common consolidated corporate tax base has to have regard to the needs of geographically marginal regions of the eu such as ireland and their capacity to attract fdi. a ccctb is not about a common tax rate. taxation of companies is the exclusive responsibility of each member state. the idea of ccctb is to establish a common legal basis for the computation of profits of companies with establishments in at least two member states. on ccctb this report says; "recalls that the introduction of a ccctb would help to tackle – within the eu – double taxation and transfer price issues within consolidated groups" i welcome the irish government’s proposal in this year's irish finance bill to regulate transfer pricing by transnational corporations.
in writing. − using ccctb to combat double taxation is like using a sledgehammer to crack a nut. there are much more efficient ways of combating the issue of double taxation. that is why i voted against recital 25.
in writing. − i voted today in favour of this report, which is progressive in nature as it aims to promote equality between men and women including in areas of parental leave, childcare, domestic violence and the pay gap. it also promotes a much wider awareness of sexual health matters for both women and men. however, this is not a legislative proposal. this is primarily a statement of principles which i am comfortable in supporting. it is consistent with the principles espoused by labour and social democratic parties across europe. it must be noted that the provision of abortion services is entirely and exclusively a matter for individual member states. this report does not and can not change that position.
in writing. − i strongly support this report. equality between women and men has long been a fundamental principle of the european union. however, despite the progress made in this field, many inequalities between remain. the gap in employment rates between women and men is narrowing but women are still more likely to be in part-time jobs and/or on fixed-term contracts and, for the most part, to remain stuck in poorly paid posts. four times more women than men across europe work part-time. the gender pay gap - 17.4% - has barely narrowed since 2000. to earn the same as a man would earn on average for a calendar year, a woman on average must work until the end of the following february, a total of 418 days. the global economic, financial and social crisis is causing women to suffer a 'double blow'. the sectors where they constitute the majority of the workforce are in the public sector (e.g. education, health and social welfare) which is being specifically targeted for shedding of jobs. in addition, because of service cutbacks, women who availed of childcare and elder-care, learning support, etc., are being forced to quit employment to assume those tasks themselves.
i scríbhinn. − vótáil mé i bhfabhar na tuarascála ar choinbhinsiún cites. tá speicis ainmhithe agus plandaí ag dul in éag ag ráta atá míle oiread an ráta nádúrtha. tá gníomhaíochtaí daonna ag cur leis an ráta seo agus ag cur bithéagsúlachta i mbaol. is uirlis lárnach é cites san iarracht idirnáisiúnta chun dul i ngleic leis na príomhbhagairtí ar an mbithéagsúlacht, leis an trádáil neamhdhleathach, agus chun rialachán ceart um thrádáil san fhiadhúlra a chur i bhfeidhm. tacaím leo siúd a dteastaíonn uathu baint níos mó a bheith ag na comhlachtaí idirnáisiúnta um fhorfheidhmiú an dlí le coireacht fiadhúlra a chosc agus go dtabharfaí aghaidh ar an mbaol a d’fhéadfadh teacht ón ríomhthráchtáil. chuige sin, tacaím chomh maith leis an moladh go láidreofaí an t-aonad coireachta comhshaoil. ba mhaith liom aird a tharraingt ar an tionchar a bheidh ag bearta cites ar shlí bheatha an phobail tuaithe bhoicht agus orthu siúd a bhíonn ag brath ar thrádáil i speicis ar leith chun slí bheatha a bhaint amach. is gá leanúint le cúnamh a thabhairt do na tíortha seo liosta cites a chur i bhfeidhm ionas gur féidir oibriú leo siúd a bhíonn ag brath ar fhiadhúlra a gceantair. .
in writing. – the european parliament cannot give its consent to the introduction of body scanners, which are essentially a type of x-ray, before the existing health and privacy concerns surrounding them have been properly addressed by european authorities. i am aware that concerns exist among frequent flyers and i am concerned about subjecting other passengers, such as pregnant women and children, to body scanners. there are also considerable concerns regarding the intrusive nature of these images, and we must ensure that the privacy of european citizens is protected before we agree to the widespread distribution of these time-consuming and expensive machines. given that the american authorities have conceded that it was a failure on the part of their security agencies rather than airport technology which led to the recent detroit terrorist scare, i believe that, before we invest in this controversial technology, a variety of less expensive methods – such as increased intelligence, different search methods and enhanced international cooperation – should be explored. the american founding father benjamin franklin once said that ‘he who would put security so far before liberty deserves neither’, and i believe that europe would do well to heed this particular piece of advice over the coming months.
in writing. – the international federation of journalists, representing 600,000 journalists in 125 countries has called on the israeli authorities to revoke a deportation order on journalist jared malsin who was deported because his reports on the situation in the west bank and gaza were critical of the israeli government. they have condemned the deportation of as an intolerable violation of press freedom. in addition, 13 israeli human rights organizations have protested to the israeli knesset and prime minister netanyahu regarding the increasingly systematic campaign against human rights organizations in israel. it has been reported that israel is now demanding that the european union stop giving financial assistance to human rights organizations operating in israel and the occupied palestinian territories. i wish to ask you mr president to make contact with prime minister netanyahu to make it clear that the eu is founded on respect for the right of free speech, the right to criticise one's own government, a free press, and the right to peaceful protest, as fundamental to a democratic state. prime minister netanyahu must also be reminded that eu trade agreements require those we do business with to respect those rights.
in writing. – we cannot wait for another catastrophe before acting to protect air passengers. dublin airport authority (daa) has tendered a contract, worth up to eur 2 million, for body scanners at dublin airport. the daa said that, if the department of transport gives the go-ahead, which seems very likely, and the equipment proved successful, the scanners could be extended to cork and shannon airports. but the data protection commissioner is concerned that any moves by the irish authorities to bring in scanners goes through proper consideration and balances security needs with individual privacy rights. manchester airport, where one of the scanners is being trialled, insists the black and white images are not pornographic or erotic and are viewed by a single officer at a remote location after which they are immediately destroyed. body scanners are not infallible but they are the best technology available at present and so we need to use what tools we have to hand in order to reduce the terrorist threat. we need a pan-european approach to the issue of scanners – airport security needs to be uniform. i eagerly await the conclusion of the commission report of the impact of body scanners.
i thank the council for its reply. a lot done; a lot more to do. the reality of it is that, as regards religious practice in china, article 36 of the constitution of the people’s republic states exactly what is involved. it is very carefully phrased. ‘religious belief’ is guaranteed, but what about practice? what constitutes ‘normal religious activities’? and, as regards ‘foreign domination’, if an outside preacher comes in, that is regarded as ‘foreign domination’. and the religions that are really looked at askance are buddhism, catholicism, deism, islam and protestant christianity. a lot done, but an awful lot more to do – so keep up the good work.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, world capitalism is experiencing its worst crisis since the great depression. as then, it is the working class and the poor who are paying dearly for, and suffering the consequences of, this, whether in europe or in the poorest countries on earth. world bank researchers predict that, in 2010 alone, 64 million more people will be plunged into extreme poverty by the crisis and that because of it, in 2009, between 30 000 and 50 000 children have already died in africa of malnutrition. this crisis is having devastating consequences on world trade, but the demand of the united nations financial summit last year, for example, that the conclusion of the doha round of trade negotiations is the answer, is utterly wrong. according to the respected ngo war on want, that would threaten a further 7.5 million workers with losing their jobs, including in the poorest countries. this crisis of world capitalism is enormously exacerbated by the activities of the financial speculators on the world markets. not content with having precipitated the crisis, these parasites now want to exploit it to rake in further billions. did the eu commission see the headline in the financial times yesterday: ‘traders in record bet against the euro’? but what does the commission do? it falls on its knees in front of the speculators and demands that the countries worst hit by the crisis, like greece, make savage cuts in workers’ wages, pensions and public services. what do you think such a draconian programme of cuts is going to do for trade, either in europe or in the world? if you cut the ability of the working class to purchase goods and services, then you cut demand for those goods and services, which means you cut millions more jobs of workers who would provide them. that, concretely, is the prescription of the commission. therefore, the tens of thousands of greek workers who marched yesterday were absolutely right. capitalism can only bring more suffering and crisis. we need to replace it with a system of human solidarity, based on the values of democratic socialism.
madam president, firstly i want to say that the commission is to be congratulated on rejecting a recent proposal by the who that we should ban the sale of duty-free alcohol and spirits. if this was accepted, it would have cost eur 2 billion to the european economy and hundreds of jobs across the union. it was a notion based on moralistic preaching rather than on scientific evidence by the who and, thankfully, it was rejected by the commission. the second point i want to make is that the banks were primarily responsible for many of the ills which we are seeing nowadays, but what happened? a new theory came into being – they were too big to fail. i think, rather than be too big to fail; many of them are too big for their own boots. that is seen in the immoral salaries that some of them are getting and the grotesque bonuses they are also getting. no banker should be getting more than the prime minister of his country, and we should work towards… (the president cut off the speaker.)
a uachtaráin, fáiltím roimh an socrú trádála seo idir an taontas eorpach agus an chóiré theas. in welcoming this, i would say that, in all agreements of this nature, there are going to be winners and losers. unfortunately, in this instance, the automobile association seems to be pointed out as the loser, but i would say that, with automobile demand likely to grow over the next 20 or 30 years fourfold at least, there may be an opportunity there. but the overall question pointed out by the commissioner of the eur 19.1 billion advantage to the european union and eur 12.5 billion to south korea is a good deal in my book. if it was the other way round, we might have cause for concern. also, we cannot underestimate the political importance of south korea psychologically in extending the hand across the oceans to asia – something which is very important to them – and also, where we are concerned, in re-establishing our place in the world, which was somewhat undermined in copenhagen.
a uachtaráin, cuirim fáilte roimh an díospóireacht thráthúil seo ar chearrbhachas ar líne agus ar na fadhbanna atá ann maidir le cearrbhachas faoi aois agus tomhaltóirí leochaileacha, go háirithe. is chun leasa an phobail agus tomhaltóirí araon é, go dtaispeánfar ceannaireacht agus treoir shoiléir agus chinnte agus aghaidh á thabhairt ar an gceist seo. d’ardaigh mé ceist an chearrbhachais leis an gcoimisiún ag tús mhí na samhna seo caite, agus sa fhreagra a cuireadh ar ais chugam dúradh go dtugann an coimisiún tacaíocht don chlár um idirlíon sábháilte, do lárionaid eolas agus do línte cabhrach sna ballstáit. tugann siad seo eolas do thuismitheoirí faoi gach baol a bhféadfadh páistí teacht orthu agus iad ar líne – cearrbhachas ar líne ina measc. mar atá, áfach, is fadhb fholaithe é an cearrbhachas ar líne agus is fadhb atá ag fás é. with online gambling as opposed to conventional gambling, there is a clear problem of a lack of physical supervision. there is no responsible or immediate management present to ensure that the gambler is of age and acting legally. the security checks and safety procedures on online gambling sites can be overcome; borrowed or stolen credit cards can be used by minors and identities can be faked. for vulnerable consumers gambling on the internet is usually conducted in isolated settings and experts in this area point to the increased problem of acting on impulse and the potential for unchecked and reckless gambling and because, with under-age gamblers, the traditional safeguards of conventional gambling are not present. with online gambling it is more difficult to determine a problem gambler as it takes time, responsibility and resources to identify who is playing, who is paying and who has a problem. clear direction is needed at all levels in order to tackle this issue so that definitive steps can be taken to tackle the problem of under-age gamblers and to ensure the interests of the most vulnerable consumers are protected.
mr president, i want to add my congratulations to commissioner barnier. commissioner, this is not the easiest topic to start off in your career in the commission but i dare say that your predecessor, mr mccreevy, would not mind me saying that he enjoyed the odd flutter. he enjoyed race-going and obviously was a man to place a bet. clearly there are two schools of thought on this issue. however, parliament’s view is quite clear from its resolution of 10 march 2009, and i think it is worth quoting three lines from that resolution, which states that ‘member states have an interest and right to regulate and control their gambling markets’. it also very clearly states that ‘online gambling operators must comply with the legislation of member states in which they provide their service’, and that ‘a pure internal market approach is not appropriate in this highly sensitive area’. the problem for us as legislators, and for member states, is that the market is way ahead of us: developments in this area have overtaken existing legislation and will continue to do so. whether we like it or not, people enjoy gambling. personally i would rather buy shoes, but others do other things for their kicks. i absolutely concur with those who have very clearly spoken about the problems of gambling, whether online or otherwise. there are huge social issues involved where people who have an addiction go beyond what they should do. but remember also that member states promote lotteries, and perhaps that is a legalised form of promoting a possible addiction. so there is no clarity on this issue but, once again, the problem for the european parliament, for the eu in general, is that there is no consistency across member states, and yet our citizens are accessing services outside their own country, and they want to do that. the green paper would be most welcome: it is a big challenge for you to pull together the information on this issue. i think the problem is that there is a huge gap in information and knowledge, and it is up to the commission to come forward with something to deal with that issue.
madam president, like so many areas of activity, gambling has benefited from advanced technology. there are upsides and downsides. the upside is that it facilitates the punter and it makes it easier to get and to place a bet. it is a huge revenue earner for the member states and we have digressed into huge areas. it used to be just racing and sports, but now we have got a huge number of other areas, for example political predictions. as we say in ireland, you could bet on two flies going up a wall. so we have a huge advance in terms of the areas covered by gambling. the downside is that we have fraud, match-fixing, social and domestic chaos, gambling addiction etc. it has been estimated that, in the uk alone – as gamblers anonymous say – there is something in the region of 600 000 people who are addicted to gambling and who are members of gamblers anonymous. we have the same problem in ireland and it is a common problem throughout the eu. i think we have got to look at the ecj ruling in terms of saying that it is up to each member state to fix its own rules and regulations. we need a common policy because gambling transgresses borders. it goes right across the entire european union. i think we have got to revert to the excellent recommendations made on 10 march 2009, which are worth looking at again. for example, members call on the member states to cooperate closely in order to solve social and public order problems arising from cross-border online gambling. secondly, we need to protect consumers against fraud and there should be a common position to do this. thirdly, there needs to be a common regulation in relation to advertising promotion and the provisions of online gambling. last, but by no means least, in relation to credit we should have a maximum amount of credit and, certainly from the point of view of age, there should be a definite age restriction. mr panzeri said earlier – and he is right – that we talk a lot here about resolutions and recommendations and they are all very commendable but, at the end of the day, what we need to do is to translate them into action. otherwise, they are mere aspirations. so we are talking about action and we are talking about the timetable. that is the reason why i am looking forward to the commission’s reply.
a uachtaráin, go raibh maith agat as ucht an seans a thabhairt dom cúpla focal a rá faoin bhfadhb ollmhór idirnáisiúnta seo. gambling – and online gambling in particular – is the hidden addiction and unlike the other major addictions of drug and alcoholic abuse there are no obvious physical manifestations of the disease. secondly, online gambling is also the new generation addiction and it is particularly prevalent among young people who are far more digitally savvy than their parents and are therefore beyond detection and consequently protection. i welcome, therefore, the imminent publication of the green paper, which needs to address three things: firstly, to establish the facts on how widespread gambling is – as an example, in my own town of 10 000 people there were only two betting shops a few years ago but now there are 18. secondly, having established the facts, we need an education programme for young people, parents and educators, and, thirdly, legislation which will apply to all countries. guím gach rath ort san obair thábhachtach seo, a choimisinéir!
mr president, i too am very pleased to have supported this initiative. it is a tangible expression of an example of one of the measures that have been undertaken by the eu in response to the current economic crisis. this particular initiative targets those who would not normally have access to the credit market; those to whom the banks and other financial institutions would say, no thank you, we do not want your business. people for example who have lost their jobs, who are at risk of social exclusion, people who have difficulty re-entering the job market now have an opportunity to set up their own business because they can access loans, with guaranteed equity of up to eur 25 000. i think this initiative will make a difference to many people, and i thank the spanish presidency for their efforts in concluding an agreement and also the rapporteur for her hard work. i think we have a good deal here today especially for those, as i said, who are excluded from the credit market, and on a personal level i am also very pleased to see the credit unions are among those institutions which can pass on this funding to their members.
mr president, firstly i would just like to say that i fully accept the democratic decision taken by the house but, in relation to this matter, i was pleased to vote in accordance with our group and the position outlined by our leader, mr daul. however, i think there were two contributory factors which contributed to the defeat by 15 votes – one the failure to answer the question put by mr schulz, and, secondly, i think there was an element of confusion about what we were voting on. for future reference, i think that, when there are proposals from the floor, it has to be spelt out quite clearly for everybody that this is what we are voting on right now. i may not be right or wrong on that situation, but that is my opinion.
mr president, i am pleased with the outcome of the vote here today because, back in 2006, the employment and social affairs committee adopted a report on protecting european healthcare workers from blood-borne infections due to needle-stick and sharp injuries. of course we had the framework agreement last july between the social partners and today we have this resolution. this resolution will be warmly welcomed by healthcare workers across the eu because needle-stick injuries and sharp injuries represent one of the most common and serious risks for health workers. indeed, it is estimated that there are about one million such injuries each year. it is now crucial that the measures defined in the proposed directive be urgently implemented and adopted first, and then implemented. healthcare workers have waited too long already; it is not reasonable that they should be asked to wait any longer. their job is difficult enough and stressful enough as it is, and anything we can do to improve the situation will, i know, be very welcome.
in writing. − i support this report which approves the conclusion of the convention on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance. the purpose of this convention is to guarantee the recovery of family maintenance claims across national borders through precise norms on recognition and enforcement of maintenance obligations and thanks to standardised administrative procedures. while there is already a regulation in place to deal with maintenance claims involving two eu member states, claims involving a non-eu state did not enjoy such guarantees. this convention will extend the protection of our children's right to family support whenever a claim involves a non-eu signatory state.
in writing. − i wholeheartedly welcome the defeat today of the council and commission proposed agreement with the usa on data transfer. the current text of the eu-usa agreement does not protect the rights of eu citizens and enterprises and effectively provides for the transfer en masse of all personal and commercial information held on the swift system to the usa contrary to eu law. the european parliament has, since 2006, regularly made our concerns plain to both the council and commission who negotiated this disgraceful agreement. however they chose to dismiss our concerns believing they could conclude the agreement before the new european parliament powers under the lisbon treaty came into force. indeed the council rushed to a signature of the agreement one day before the entry into force of the lisbon treaty the lisbon treaty gives the ep a binding veto power on such international agreements. until now no national or eu parliamentary scrutiny has been provided for in this sensitive process. i welcome the decision too by the irish parliamentary joint committee on european affairs to look more closely at this proposal. this signals a much more effective monitoring of european legislative proposals which will be to the benefit of citizens.
in writing. − i support this motion for resolution which calls for the urgent adoption of a directive implementing the framework agreement on prevention of sharp injuries in the hospital and healthcare sector, concluded by the european social partners in the healthcare sector. every year, more than one million needle-stick injuries are recorded in the european union, which may lead to the transmission of life-threatening viruses. the recent agreement's clause on minimum standards does not preclude future national and community provisions that are more favourable to workers. my political group in the european parliament has been insisting upon stricter european safety standards in the health sector for years and, further to the framework agreement, a directive must be adopted and implemented as a matter of urgency.
author. − mr president, let me first emphasise the utter hypocrisy of the right-wing groups in this parliament which condemned the venezuelan government for the temporary withdrawal of broadcasting facilities for radio caracas television (rctv) and pretend to be champions of the freedom of the press. these are the same groups that stand for a system in europe where the vast majority of the media is controlled by billionaires and major private corporations, who use this control on the one hand to reap massive profits for themselves and on the other hand to spew out pro-capitalist propaganda, pro-market and pro-neoliberal propaganda; who, in the context of the present economic crisis, vilify and abuse public-sector workers, for example, relentlessly pushing an agenda that it is working-class people who must pay for the crisis, and vilify without end those working class organisations that dare to disagree. bringing the issue of rctv into the human rights emergency resolution today is a major abuse of that procedure. by the way, most of the media outlets in venezuela are in private ownership, actually, including powerful media corporations which conspired to overthrow hugo chávez in 2002, who happens to have been elected and re-elected many times by the people of venezuela. the reality is that the epp in this parliament has the same agenda as the coup conspirators: they want to overthrow hugo chávez’s government because this government has not carried out the bold dictates of world capitalism implementing privatisation and deregulation across the board, and they want no opposition to the neoliberal agenda. yes, the working class in latin america in general rise up in opposition. no, i am not without some sharp criticisms of the venezuelan government. despite massive support from the majority of the venezuelan people, hugo chávez, in fact, has not decisively broken with capitalism and led a movement to genuine democratic socialism. there is a trend towards bureaucratism in certain senses. finally, co-thinkers of mine on the ground, in the socialismo revolucionário group for example, are fighting these trends and fighting for workers’ rights and genuine socialism, which means, by the way, that the media would not be controlled either by capitalist interests or by bureaucratic interest but open democratically to all sectors of society.
in writing. – i support this resolution which calls inter alia on the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy and the member states to work towards a strong eu common position on the follow-up to the goldstone report and demands the implementation of its recommendations and accountability for all violations of international law, including alleged war crimes, and urges all sides to conduct investigations that meet international standards of independence, impartiality, transparency, promptness and effectiveness, in line with united nations general assembly resolution a/64/l.11. it further stresses that respect for international human rights law and international humanitarian law by all parties and under all circumstances is an essential precondition for achieving a just and lasting peace in the middle east. the resolution also calls on the eu high representative and member states to actively monitor the implementation of recommendations included in the goldstone report by means of consultation of eu external missions and ngos in the field and calls for the recommendations and related observations to be included in eu dialogues with all parties, as well as eu positions in multilateral fora.
mr president, listening to the debate it is difficult to know what report some of the speakers have read. it is certainly not the one i have read. israel denies this parliament its democratic right to meet palestinian legislative council members in gaza and denies our foreign ministers access. a hamas militant has been murdered, most likely by israeli agents using forged european passports, thus breaching irish, british, french, german and dubai sovereignty. israel is treating us with contempt, which is not surprising given the impunity with which it continues to infringe the rights of millions of palestinians. the acid test of our commitment to human rights and the rule of law is our response to the goldstone report, which found that the siege of gaza is collective punishment of the population and that operation cast lead was to further that policy. it found evidence of wilful torture, inhumane treatment and wilful causing of great human suffering. the report recommends going to the international criminal court and that the quartet should insist on the rule of law. i support goldstone’s call on member state parties to the geneva conventions, including ireland i have to say, to start criminal prosecutions in national courts against the alleged perpetrators of war crimes. could i just make one correction before i conclude, which is that it has been claimed repeatedly that this report does not deal with the firing of rockets into israel by hamas. however, on page 31 the report mentions the impact on civilians of rocket and mortar attacks by palestinian armed groups on southern israel.
mr president, it seems to me that the three key words in this debate are ‘independent’, ‘equal’ and ‘neutral’. there needs to be an independent investigation into alleged breaches of human rights. there has to be equal condemnation of the perpetrators of those breaches and, above all, there is need for a powerful neutral voice to mediate in this unfortunate conflict, something that is sadly lacking at the minute because the position of the vast majority of powerful countries is fairly well known. i think there is a wonderful opportunity for the high representative or the newly created president of the council to supply that neutral voice, something similar to what george mitchell did in northern ireland, as a result of which we now have peace, and people who were shooting and killing one another for years are now in government together. that same opportunity is there for the high representative, to supply that neutral, independent and fair voice that is so sadly lacking.
mr president, i thank colleagues for their contributions to this debate. i recently addressed a high-level group of public-service workers, women who had reached the highest level on their jobs, and they were concerned about how they could make more progress. i want to turn this debate around a little because i think we spend too much time trying to push women up into professions and not looking at why there are professions that men do not get involved in. the key reason is that they are not paid well enough, and i will be quite basic on this – we do not pay people enough to do the cleaning work, the work that nobody wants to do. maybe if we looked at how we distribute payments in these sorts of professions, we would achieve equality at that level as well as at the other end. i think we need to look at these issues if we are to have genuine gender equality. i think the spanish presidency is very concerned, for example, about the role of women in agriculture. again, they have a huge part to play but it is not recognised and it is certainly not counted, and, again, that is an important aspect of our upcoming reforms on agriculture policy. there are two other issues which i want to mention. a lot of women are contributing to this debate, but i think we have to be honest about how many of us have dependent children. could we be here if we had? yes, but only because we earn a great deal more money than other people who cannot follow suit. lastly, let us acknowledge the women of iran. yesterday we heard from them and i think this house and this debate should recognise their struggle and wish them well.
mr president, i would like to take this opportunity to condemn in this house the fake use of irish, british, french and german passports in the recent killing of the hamas commander. the chief of the dubai police said he was 99% certain that mossad was behind the killing. if that is the case, this was a flagrant abuse of eu passports to commit a crime in a third country and particularly a breach of trust where ireland is concerned because, ever since we got our independence in 1922, we have been a neutral and friendly country thus allowing our citizens to travel, maybe more freely, in places where other people would not be allowed to travel. the use of the fake passports in this situation has jeopardised that position, especially in dubai. i would call on the high representative in particular to investigate this matter and, if the government or mossad were behind it, redress should be given to us and to the other countries involved.
mr president, we will get over this confusion eventually. the regional aid map for state aid rules in europe is in serious need of redrawing. a major concern is that when i wrote to the previous commission on this they were basing their policy on 2006 figures from eurostat. now that the regional aid map is up for review it is extremely important to recognise that the european economy is in a dramatically different picture. taking just one example in my own country, unemployment levels in the mid-west of the country have grown by over 40% in the last year and this without mentioning the previous years where figures were rising already. areas in the mid-west, like limerick, clare and tipperary, need large-scale state funding to stimulate primary job creation, and it is getting to critical levels. given the dramatic turnaround in the irish economy, as in other economies, the years of 2006 and 2007 might as well have been a lifetime ago. while i recognise that it is partly up to member states to inform the commission of any changes in their economic status, the approach of the commission should not remain the same regardless.
mr president, mr tremosa i balcells raised the issue of low-cost production in agriculture and it is an issue which i have huge concerns about, as do many others in this house. however, i am more concerned about the commission and how they view agriculture, rural areas and indeed the food industry because in the eu 2020 strategy they seem to have almost forgotten about this vital sector of the european union. i would urge the commission not to ignore this important area. i hope that it does not reflect a view that this sector is not important any more, particularly as we look at reforming the european union’s budget. i would remind the commission that the agriculture and food sector is vital for food security reasons, for environmental protection reasons and for jobs in rural areas. i think that this view needs to be reflected in the eu 2020 strategy. i thank a young farmers’ organisation in ireland, macra na feirme, who represent men and women, for bringing this matter to my attention and i hope the commission is listening.
mr president, ever since i was a kid my favourite cake was madeira cake and when i discovered there was a lovely island called madeira i have had an affinity with it ever since. so when i heard of the devastation last saturday my heart went out to the people there, particularly my friend nuno teixeira and the other portuguese colleagues, because in my own area we ourselves suffered from flooding just prior to christmas. i was very pleased to hear both the words and the tone of the commissioner in extending the hand of friendship to the people of madeira at this terrible time for them, probably to be known from now on as black saturday. but, in the broader sphere, i think that we need to look at the criteria for triggering the solidarity fund. basing it on 6.6% of gdp and eur 985 million is too high because many of these tragedies are very local, although they can be very devastating. we need to look at that. however, in the short term we will do what we can for madeira and i welcome the commissioner’s statement to that effect.
madam president, this question is a very important for at least three reasons: firstly, we must think about energy security, because the day is going to come when fossil fuels run out; secondly, our climate change targets for 2020 or as some people have advocated 3020 or even 4020; and thirdly and very importantly we must reduce our reliance on fossil fuels that come from sometimes unstable and dictatorial regimes. so time is not on our side and one of the areas which requires grave attention is that of research and innovation. and i am worried about duplication in that area. i learned recently there were 45 different groups doing research into salmonella bacteria. now, if this could happen with salmonella bacteria, you could have 450 groups doing the same research into renewable energies, for example, wind energy, solar energy, tidal energy and wave energy. so i want to ask the commission what plans they have to coordinate this research so that the best use is made of resources in terms of getting the technology we need.
mr president, first of all let me welcome the commissioner to the house in her first address to parliament and wish her well during her term of office. let me also congratulate our colleague, mrs neves for the preparation of this report. tá sé riachtanach go mbeadh cuspóirí níos soiléire agus níos fearr ag an gcomhbheartas nua a ghlacann le prionsabail éiceolaíochta, eacnamaíochta agus sóisialta. ní mór dul i mbun athsmaoinimh radacaigh, agus ar ndóigh na geallsealbhóirí go léir a bheith páirteach ann. caithfimid bainistíocht inbhuanaithe a dhéanamh ar an stoc éisc. ach an am céanna, tá sé riachtanach slí bheatha inmharthana agus inbhuanaithe a chinntiú d’iascairí na heorpa. i am particularly concerned about fishermen operating inshore and from small coastal islands. such small-scale fisheries are of extreme importance to the peripheral areas where there is no alternative social employment and i am heartened this morning when i listen to the commissioner make reference to such fisheries. the majority of boats fishing in these areas are less than 15 metres, catching fish and catching quantities that have no significant impact on the fish stocks and of course many of them are fishing non-quota species. most importantly, there is no alternative source of employment for many of those people. this is why i have tabled an amendment which calls on the commission to specifically recognise these remote communities. regionalisation and the introduction of the racs (regional advisory councils) have been successful so regionalisation management structures should create many positive effects, including increased responsibility on the part of the stakeholders and the establishment of a new common fisheries policy that will be more sensitive to local concerns. with the operation of the lisbon treaty following the referendum in my own country last year, the european parliament now has greater legislative responsibility. again the commissioner has recognised this and i look forward to working with her. in conclusion, i would hope that the key provisions of this report will be included in the substantial reforms in the future.
mr president, can i thank the rapporteur for her very diligent and detailed work on this dossier. since the lisbon treaty has been passed, this house will face two major reforms on two policies: agriculture and fishing. the issues are similar. we all want the best for the sectors and we are trying to reform them in a way which will deliver the best possible outcomes. i am a little concerned, and the rapporteur points to it in her explanatory statement, that in 2002 we were also full of good intentions but that reform failed the fishing sector and failed the sustainability criteria as well. however, i am very heartened by her very practical approach to the problems: the three principles that we need to look at – the environmental, the social and the economic – and then the practices that are needed to implement those principles. it is about local and regional concerns and being conscious of the people who are affected. i like in particular the idea that we could fish less and earn more. if we achieve that, we can perhaps do the same for agriculture.
mr president, during my seven months as an mep, i have never met more angry people than the fishermen and fisherwomen i have met in my constituency. clearly for them the common fisheries policy has not worked. therefore the reform is most welcome. i think we all agree that we need to preserve fish stocks but we also need to preserve coastal communities, and the two are not necessarily mutually exclusive. there has to be a voice in favour of the small fisherman and small fisherwoman. also, as pointed out by mr brons, new technologies have to be brought on board, particularly the ones he referred to which can help with dispersals. that would make a huge difference. and finally, the whole question of research has to be looked at. there is a tendency, once we hear about research or scientific evidence, to take it at face value. as mr cadec said, it must be incontestable, it must be objective and it must be up to date.
in writing. – while recreational angling constitutes just a small catch percentage of europe's fishing industry, it is an integral economic and social element of many parts of the eu, particularly ireland east. angling has a long and important heritage in the east of ireland, with scenes of anglers at rivers such as the slaney or on the shores of the east coast a popular depiction of irish culture. this reputation for angling also has a vital impact on tourism in many parts of ireland, both from within ireland and internationally, with tiger woods one famous regular patron of the liffey in county kildare. as a result of falling stocks of fish, there is a move to impose controls on shore angling and to deduct these catches from the quotas of the commercial fishing industry. these proposals could have a serious effect on tourist earnings from angling, and also have a negative cultural impact on many parts of ireland. it is therefore necessary for this house to recognise recreational angling in all its forms as an important stakeholder in the fishing industry, and for the reformed common fisheries policy to take its economic and social benefits into account in its white paper.
in writing. – on a practical level i welcome the proposed developments for the long term protection of marine resources, for both environmental and economic purposes; the updating of fishing technologies, and the emphasis it places on the need for professional qualifications within the sector. in particular, i am pleased with the recommendation that any mandatory changes be introduced gradually and requiring an initial transitional period, in order to allow sufficient time for the industry, and especially individual fishermen, to cope with the extra expense in an already difficult industry. however, although i acknowledge that the report outlines the difference in treatment to be afforded to high-sea fisheries and smaller-scale fisheries, it is lamentable that any more expense be imposed upon the latter particularly. fishing is not just an economic activity, it is both social and cultural, and the way of life of the small fisherman needs to be preserved. their livelihood has up until now depended on the historic claim his local community held on its coast's fishing rights. in light of this, we should not lose sight of the promise made in the report, "to guarantee (people living from fishing) an equitable standard of living."
mr president, the appalling train crash near halle was a dreadful tragedy for the victims, their families, work colleagues and friends. the important thing now is to draw the necessary lessons from this tragedy, to avoid future casualties. in this it is crucial that the voice of railway workers is clearly heard and heeded in making rail travel safe for both workers and passengers. it is indeed outrageous to hear a british tory, i take it, a member of this parliament, malign and slander belgian railway workers in the course of his contribution when it is quite clear that the policies of neo-liberalisation and deregulation have done enormous damage to our railway system as a public facility. there is in fact enormous frustration among belgian railway workers. this was clear from spontaneous strikes among those workers in the days after this tragedy, in response to it. this is the third serious incident in belgium in nine months. after a previous tragedy in belgium in 2001, comprehensive safety measures were promised but have not been implemented. the reality is that workers on the belgian railways are under continuous pressure to work longer, with journeys being extended and fewer breaks, which means less safety. of course, the perfidious policy of the eu commission of liberalisation and privatisation will threaten safety further. it means that the profits of major transport companies come first. it is clear that the best structure to guarantee safety is to maintain the rail infrastructure in public ownership with democratic control and necessary investment.
i scríbhinn. − vótáil mé i bhfabhar na tuarascála ar infheistíocht i mbonneagar fuinnimh atá mar aidhm aici soláthar fuinnimh agus cumas iomaíochta a chinntiú agus an comhrac i gcoinne an t-athrú aeráide a láidriú. cuireann an tuarascáil seo iallach ar rialtais an aontas eorpaigh eolas a thabhairt don choimisiún maidir leis an infheistíocht atá á déanamh i mbonneagar fuinnimh, sa nuachóiriú, nó i dtáirgeadh fuinnimh éifeachtúil a chabhróidh le héifeachtúlacht, comhoibriú agus pleanáil fuinnimh san aontas eorpach. athrú aeráide a chomhrac, soláthar fuinnimh a chinntiú agus fuinneamh in-athnuaite a úsáid: is ceisteanna fíorthábhachtacha iad seo san aontas eorpach agus ní foláir iarrachtaí níos mó a dhéanamh chun infheistíocht éifeachtach agus spriocdhírithe a spreagadh agus a áirithiú agus ní mór a chinntiú go bhfanfaidh na ceisteanna seo i gcroílár bheartais fuinnimh an aontais eorpaigh.
in writing. − the necessity for a comprehensive collection of data on investment in energy infrastructure within the eu is clear - an outline of the major trends occurring in the industry will be needed to allow for proper forward planning, and to highlight any potential difficulties. energy infrastructure will be the foundation of our future economic growth. so where europe can act together on this it should be encouraged.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the united nations platform for action for gender equality, which identifies key steps required for the european union to meet strategic objectives on equality between women and men. there is a clear need for the commission to step up efforts to compile comparable data on critical indicators for the follow-up to the platform for action, and to translate it into regular reviews of gender mainstreaming initiatives across a range of policy fields. it is especially important to monitor, and act on, the gender dimension of poverty, violence and the needs of girl-children. the follow-up to the commission's roadmap for equality between women and men 2006-2010 must take into consideration the long-term consequences of the economic crisis and climate change in a society that is getting older and ethnically more diverse. sexual and reproductive health and rights need to be acknowledged and furthered in europe and at a global level. the european union should now become party to the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women, a legal step made possible by the entry into force of the lisbon treaty.
in writing. − i voted for the manka report which is the first step in amending the 2010 european parliament budget seeking additional budgetary and human resources to enable the european parliament to fulfil its enhanced role. the additional resources include an increase in the monthly assistance allowance available to meps to support their increased legislative role under the lisbon treaty. the lisbon treaty puts the parliament on an equal footing with the council as co-legislator accounting for some 95% of legislative procedures. it now includes such areas as freedom, security and justice, agriculture, fisheries, research, and, structural funds. parliament's consent must also now be given for the negotiation and conclusion of international agreements which require detailed expert examination. it is essential that meps have the staff necessary to do this work as required.
in writing. − i am supportive of extending the coastal limits from 12 to 20 miles as one of the key reforms of the cfp. we must also end the practice of discarding vulnerable stocks. it is important to retain the current quota management system and i do not support mandatory privatisation of quotas.
mr president, the reply received recently by president buzek from prime minister netanyahu justifying his refusal to allow this parliament’s delegation to enter gaza last december requires a robust response. he is free to object to our meetings with palestinians in gaza and east jerusalem, but he has no right to prevent them – nor, indeed, to interfere with this parliament’s democratic rights. high representative ashton must pursue her intention vigorously to visit gaza; she must press israel to end the siege and the humanitarian crisis which goldstone has described as illegal collective punishment of the population. finally, i want to welcome the agreement on proximity talks, but i am seriously worried that escalating tensions around religious sites in east jerusalem and hebron could destroy the possibility of progress. i believe high representative ashton should act to de-escalate those tensions.
a uachtaráin, seo óráid ghearr uaimse faoi straitéis an atlantaigh. over the past weeks and months i have listened with interest and indeed approval to the discussions regarding the danube strategy and the baltic strategy, but never a word did i hear about an atlantic strategy. i think there is great room here for development as well. the 2020 strategy has outlined very clearly that no country can go it alone, and certainly countries along the atlantic seaboard such as ireland, great britain, france, portugal and spain can make an awful lot of progress in many areas, particularly offshore energy, marine research, fishing, maritime and naval construction, ports and biodiversity. i would call on the spanish presidency to make this a priority in the coming months. agus má dhéanann siad é sin, beidh gaisce déanta acu nuair a bheidh a dtéarma san uachtaránacht thart.
mr president, i welcome the commissioner and i thank the rapporteur for her work. just to continue with mr agnew’s point of ‘if it ain’t broke, don’t fix it’, i think that is exactly what we are doing here: we are extending derogations where member states have asked that that happen, but we are allowing the movement of pets. i am sure those who are in the visitors’ gallery thought that it was quite a simple matter to move pets between member states, but because we are dealing with issues around animal health – and indeed human health – it is not quite so simple. we do need stringent rules and controls on that, while recognising that many british people, but also people from other member states, like to bring their animals with them. my worry about this report was that it might get bogged down in the technicalities of life after the lisbon treaty which, quite frankly, lots of people outside this chamber should not worry about, or indeed know about – it was of importance to us as a parliament. i think the rapporteur has settled the case very well on our behalf and has been congratulated for so doing. the danger was, had it slipped through the net, we would not have had in place measures to address the concerns of sweden, ireland, the uk and others. but we are in the right place now. i think the future is much more important. commissioner, you mentioned that you have plans to look at new legislation in this regard. i think that is what we should be talking about at this stage. what we all want in this house is high animal- and human-health standards, and this new legislation that you promise should ensure that. so, well done to the rapporteur and to those involved in this report in bringing it to the stage it is at today. it has satisfied all concerns – not for all, perhaps, to my extreme left here, but for most of us. i hope you will consult wisely and widely in relation to what we need on new legislation on the transport of pets. we have it with farm animals; we need simplified but effective rules for pets.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank my colleague ms de brún for her hard work on this report. the case of a 38-year-old woman who died in the royal victoria hospital in belfast last year was a tiny reminder of the ongoing threat posed by rabies to ireland. it is believed that she contracted the disease when trying to break up a fight between two dogs while on a working holiday to south africa. more recently, four people had to receive preventive injections in dublin after an illegally imported kitten started to act strangely and bit them. rabies is one of the oldest zoonotic diseases which affects humans, and is invariably fatal once symptoms have occurred. global travel patterns mean that the disease is never far from our door. it is for this reason that ireland practises strict quarantine of imported animals, and it is only because of these stringent measures that we are able to maintain our status as rabies-free. in order to continue this record, it is crucial that the transitional agreement which this proposal would extend until the end of next year is not allowed to lapse in july 2010. the additional safeguards proposed are also crucial to both human and animal health, as they would help solve the fight not just against rabies but also against specific ticks and tapeworms from which ireland is currently free. by accepting this proposal, this house would facilitate the fight against rabies and provide a base for its eradication across europe. for these reasons, the urgency of this matter must not go unstated.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, this debate comes at a very timely juncture for tourism, the air travel industry and consumer protection. we had a summer where it seemed that half of europe was stranded on holiday, with airlines and travel agents going bust left, right and centre, and consumers being stranded away from loved ones, in countries that were not their own. it was clear that our laws had failed to properly protect consumers. we had several reports of passengers left with no information about when they could get home, no transparency about who was technically responsible for their situation, no phone number to call to get any information and no idea how to seek redress when they did get home. therefore i welcome this timely debate and the commission’s efforts to tackle this matter, as all of us have let this area go for too long. many problems with the package travel directive were identified almost 10 years ago in a parliamentary report, but very little has moved on it since. i know that the proposed consumer rights directive will deal with some issues, but cross-border air travel needs more european laws for the protection of consumers. the very fact that the law is still called the package travel directive shows how outdated it is. the majority of consumers no longer use travel packages if they have found cheaper methods to go on holiday and see the world. forty per cent of travellers in my own country, ireland, do not bother to use packages, and i know this is replicated in many other member states. most people are now acting as their own travel agents with online booking on sites such as tripadvisor, where they effectively become their own travel agent. our laws now must reflect this change in consumer behaviour. one of the most significant issues that must come from any review is to demonstrate clearly to the consumer who is responsible in the event of these delays and cancellations. travel companies must be mandated to provide very clear information. consumers must be told where they can get this information and be informed of their rights in the circumstances. (the president asked the speaker to speak more slowly for the sake of the interpreters.) under the current legislation there are no clear lines of responsibility. in the event of a mishap, is it the airline that is responsible? is it the travel agent? is it the airport or train station? who should a consumer ask for the information? typically, these situations descend into scrambles of information from various sources and nobody knows whether they are going or coming. if we are trying to build the european economy based on cross-border trade, consumers have to be aware of their rights and entitlements and how these are enforced and communicated. i know, for example, that it is extremely difficult to find an airline’s complaints department. how can you get redress if you do not know where to go or ask? what i will be calling for – and i am hopeful that the commission will take this on board – is for the basic principles of customer care to be enshrined in clearly communicated legislation that is uniformly understood and simple. updating this law is not enough. member states must be obliged to communicate new legislation to citizens once it is agreed. finally, one other idea that the commission might consider is: how much does a flight cost? we are all aware that the advertised price does not include taxes and charges: there are charges to check in, charges for extra pieces of luggage, charges for virtually everything and anything. revising this directive provides an opportune moment to compel travel and airline companies to provide better transparency, and we must take this opportunity to do so.
mr president, i think we all applauded when the former commissioner for consumer affairs announced on 29 august 2009 that the current directive is totally out of date and does not meet the challenges or the demands of the modern travelling public. why is it out of date? well, these reasons have been enumerated here this evening, but they are worth looking at again. it was fine in its own time but now it is certainly not equipped to meet the modern challenges of the travelling public. it does not consider consumers self-packaging their holidays, and that has become increasingly the trend. it does not cover consumers based in one country, purchasing from suppliers based outside the jurisdiction of the european union. it does not cover scheduled airlines, and more and more people are now arranging their own package holidays by virtue of the fact that they have easy access to the internet. indeed, over the past number of years, the proportion of holidays that are protected has fallen from about 90% to about 60%. in other words the current measures do not extend to online travel firms selling foreign holidays with flights and hotels as separate components, a practice referred to by the industry as ‘dynamic packaging’. we pride ourselves on having a lot of achievements within the eu, and we laud ourselves – quite rightly – on our achievements, but, when you look at the current situation in relation to travel protection, the european union has the least integrated market for travel services of any modern trading bloc. there is also considerable confusion as to who accepts liability and when a customer is covered. for example, additional security can be obtained by someone using a credit card, but not if the billing is taking place, for example, in my own country, the republic of ireland. and because of the diversity of products in the marketplace today, a blurring has occurred between airlines, tour operators, cruise operators, agencies and so on, so the new legislation is urgently needed. what we need is a vastly improved, modern piece of technology by way of the implementation of a new directive to cover all the contingencies. we need clarification, we need certainty, and we need protection for the consumer.
mr president, many colleagues have pointed out the necessity of having this review, and the sooner the better. they have particularly mentioned the value to the consumer – and that is absolutely correct – but benefiting the consumer does not mean it is going to affect industry: it can benefit both industry and the consumer. i particularly have in mind the fact that over the next few years we are going to have two million people passing the age of 60 in the european union. that gives a great opportunity to the industry to tap in to what those people would like to do in terms of travel, particularly travel without hassle. if this directive is all-inclusive and offers full protection, it is a great opportunity for the industry to tap into the over-60s in this european union, which would be of great benefit to them. i think, therefore, that, like the timeshare directive, this can be seen as a win-win situation both for the consumer and also for the industry.
mr president, two words spring to mind in discussing this topic: they are the latin words festina lente, or ‘hasten slowly’, because this topic is obviously quite controversial, as all taxes are. i suppose it is particularly attractive to talk about putting tax on financial institutions to make them more risk-aware and to maybe pay for their sins, but financial transactions are global and not just european in dimension so, as ms swinburne pointed out, we have to consider all options. look where the imf and the g20 are going, and then maybe move ourselves, but we certainly need to consider this very carefully. so i say, festina lente, hasten slowly, having thought deeply and consulted widely, and then we may need to act, with or without the aid of robin hood.
in writing. – i have been a long-time supporter of a financial transaction tax (ftt), or as the supporters in the usa call it - a financial speculation tax (fst). james tobin was one of the first to promote the idea as a means of stabilising global financial markets and in the process raising substantial money for development aid. the powerful financial speculators rejected it, as did powerful governments, as not feasible. now the imf as a consequence of the crisis is studying its feasibility and we must insist that expert report is not gutted and rendered useless by backroom lobbying. we now have the tools, for example the swift clearing system in europe, which would enable us to apply a tax. but still, contrary to research, the old spurious arguments are trotted out; “it could be evaded, it would be a burden on consumers”. the financial crisis, driven by unscrupulous financial speculators, who continue to make vast fortunes whose activities have brought the world economy to its knees, need to be circumscribed. the growing support for a ftt must be driven hard by public opinion for governments to act, and not to cave-in to the people for whom greed is not enough.
mr president, i, like many of my colleagues, got up this morning at four o’clock to come here, but i am very pleased that i have waited until the end of the discussion here tonight, because these last two topics which we have discussed have filled me with great hope. saving eur 6.5 billion, basically by a wave of our hand, is a very significant fact. on the one hand one can say that it proves what many critics have said, that the european union is far too bureaucratic, but at least we have the integrity and the guts to face up to the fact and take corrective action – unlike the banks, which have so far shown no culpability and no remorse for their actions. however, it also shows that there is much more red tape that we need to get the scissors to in order to meet the 25% target, and the sooner we do it the better.
mr president, the rapporteur referred to cartels. now cartels existing and proving that they exist are two different matters. i know that in ireland, particularly in the agricultural sector, many farmers believe that the factories operate a cartel. being an island nation, transporting cattle – particularly now with the increased, almost draconian restrictions – is becoming more and more difficult, so the factories have it all to themselves. it has to be noted that prices rise slowly, uniformly, but they drop quickly, uniformly. as a result the price differential between cattle in ireland and in britain is anything between eur 150 to eur 200 a head. as i said, proving it might be difficult. however, maybe commissioner barnier might be able to use his good antenna to check it out and maybe help to take corrective action.
mr president, i just wish in particular to congratulate all my colleagues on the committee on the internal market and consumer protection who worked on the future of the internal market scoreboard. it is an issue that is close to my heart as it provides an excellent communication tool for how member states treat eu directives. it is also close to my heart because i am constantly hearing about overzealous eu regulation, particularly in my home country, ireland, and this needs to be digested. well, a quick glance at the scoreboard will show you that ireland has misapplied eu directives on no less than 67 occasions and is in danger of missing out on the 1% transposition deficit target as agreed. this raises the question, who is at fault for this supposedly overzealous regulation? if a member state is not transposing eu legislation correctly, or is adding more regulation onto directives, then is it the fault of the eu or the member state? i think possibly and probably the latter. perhaps an idea for the scoreboard in future might be to directly address the matter of overregulation, or ‘gold plating’, as it is known. i think this would be a positive outcome.
mr president, firstly i would like to compliment the person who came up with the title ‘solvit’: it is simple, it is clear and, as they say, ‘it does exactly what it says on the tin’. since solvit was established in 2002, its workload has been growing exponentially year on year. so much so that in 2008 there was an increase of 22% of cases coming before it, leading to 1 000 cases, and with an 88% resolution saving eur 32.6 million. that is an impressive statistic. however, the downside is that the days taken to solve the problems rose on average from 53 to 69 days. that brings us to the solutions that are required. obviously there is a shortage of staff. that must be dealt with. they must have proper resources. there is a need for continuous training in line with the eu 2020 strategy on lifelong training, and an exchange of best practice, and it is important to meet regularly. i would also suggest that, since many of the problems are local, there could be a local aspect to this to deal with inquires at an early stage. consumers also need to have greater awareness. i think an online address would create that and create more confidence. i think it is important, as a previous speaker said, that what is happening in individual states in the transposition of eu regulations is looked at very closely. finally, a previous speaker said that this was an ‘eu solution desperately looking for a problem’; i would say that it is an eu problem successfully finding a solution.
mr president, consumer protection: we are all in favour of it. the difficulty is that some member states pay lip service to the solvit mechanism, as other speakers have addressed. that needs to be looked at so that there is proper staffing. but can i tell you about some practical examples of consumer problems that come to my office. just this morning i had one relating to property transactions across the european union. i know the eu does not have competence in this area, but could i ask member states, where there are problems, to deal with citizens as they would with their own, and i do think there is an issue here that we need to take action on. the second one relates to business directories. european city guides has caused us enormous headaches in parliament and they continue to operate because they receive some level of protection within the member state where they are based. this needs to be addressed because the attitude of citizens to the internal market is affected by their experience in these areas, even if there is not competence for the eu in them.
madam president, there are a lot of good things in this report but i simply cannot support paragraph 35 which calls for the introduction of a common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb). one of the things we are told about ccctb is that it will be more efficient and that it will simplify matters. but, given that, as it now stands, companies can opt in or opt out, we would end up with 28 tax bases instead of the current 27, and that is hardly simplification. also, as it is currently proposed, ccctb would mean the redistribution of european profits across the eu, so a country like my own, ireland, which exports a lot of what it produces, would be penalised because the profits, of course, would be at the point of sale. it does seem a little bit strange since at the core of the eu we have the free movement of goods, so therefore we would end up, if we use ccctb, by penalising exporting countries. finally, i also believe that its introduction would damage europe’s capacity to attract foreign direct investment, because the rules as such would not apply to the member state in which it was located but would be by some reference to a complicated formula which can only be calculated in retrospect, so i believe that would certainly damage our capacity to attract foreign direct investment.
in writing. − this proposal on behalf of the mobilisation of egaf for german workers - as well as the proposal from the lithuanian refrigeration sector - was to be among the first beneficiaries of the fund in 2010. both are worthy applications. i welcome the new commission's commitment to continuting this fund which provides people with a "hand up" as opposed to a "hand out" following redundancy. my own constituency has benefitted from this fund an i hope it continues to do so in future the global downturn has severely reduced the demand for luxury items and even though this makes the current troubles of the motor car industry understandable, it makes it no less saddening. the situation in germany is particularly difficult due to sheer numbers; 2476 redundancies are concentrated in the same area, around the same industry. it is my hope that the 6.199 million euro will help produce a successful way out of the crisis for the workers, their families, and the area
i scríbhinn. − vótáil mé i bhfabhar na tuarascála seo ar solvit. tá sé riachtanach go mbeadh tomhaltóirí na heorpa ar an eolas go hiomlán faoina gcearta agus go mbeadh an líonra um réiteach fadhbanna seo ar fáil go héasca ag gach aon duine. san aontas eorpach ar an iomlán tá an méid daoine atá ag dul i dteagmháil le solvit, chun comhairle agus cabhair a lorg, ag dul i méid agus as seo is féidir a aithint go bhfuil tábhacht solvit mar uirlis réitigh fadhbanna do shaoránaigh agus do ghnóthais na heorpa ag fás. tacaím go mór leis an éileamh atá sa tuarascáil seo fógraíocht níos fearr agus níos forleithne a dhéanamh ar sheirbhísí solvit agus aontaím go mba chóir an t-eolas ar na cearta atá ag saoránaigh agus ag gnóthais sa mhargadh inmheánach a shoiléiriú ionas go mbeadh gach éinne in ann na cearta seo a chur i gcrích ina saol laethúil.
i scríbhinn. − tá caighdeáin an-arda maidir le ceanglais sláinte ainmhithe againn in éirinn agus dá bharr sin vótáil mé i bhfabhar na tuarascála tábhachtaí seo; tuarascáil a thabharfaidh cosaint do stádas sláinte ainmhithe na héireann. is moladh riachtanach agus tráthúil atá sa tuarascáil maidir leis an gcóras idirthréimhseach d’iompar ainmhithe a fhadú go dtí deireadh mhí na nollag 2011. bunaíonn na rialacha seo córas ginearálta aitheantais do pheataí (cait, madraí agus firéid) atá ag taisteal idir ballstáit agus beidh ar gach ainmhí pas a bheith ag gabháil leis a léiríonn go bhfuil vacsaíniú i gcoinne an chonfaidh faighte aige. tá na bearta cosanta seo riachtanach toisc go bhfuil caighdeáin sláinte fíor-arda in éirinn faoi láthair agus dá thoradh sin tá an tír saor ó chonfadh, ó sceartáin áirithe agus ó phéisteanna ribíneacha a d’fhéadfadh sláinte daoine agus ainmhithe a chur i mbaol.
i scríbhinn. − tá feisirí eorpacha fhianna fáil, pat ‘the cope’ ó gallchóir agus liam aylward, go láidir i gcoinne a bhfuil beartaithe sa tuarascáil seo maidir le comhbhonn cánach corparáideach comhdhlúite (ccctb sa bhéarla) a thabhairt isteach. rinne an lárionad eorpach um staidéir eacnamaíochta staidéar le déanaí ar a phraiticiúla a bheadh sé an comhbhonn cánach corparáideach comhdhlúite a thabhairt isteach san eoraip agus ba léir ó chonclúidí an staidéir sin nach mbeadh córas cánach dá leithéid inoibrithe, praiticiúil ná inmhianaithe ó thaobh na polaitíochta de. ní chuirfeadh comhbhonn cánach corparáideach comhdhlúite san eoraip le hiomaíochas an aontais eorpaigh nó le feidhmiú an mhargaidh aonair agus, thairis sin, d’fhéadfadh ccctb cur isteach ar gheilleagair bheaga oscailte, mar atá in éirinn. is inniúlacht do na ballstáit aonair amháin é ceist an chánachais agus tá an ceart ag rialtas na héireann a chumhacht crosta a úsáid i dtaca le haon bheart cánach, ccctb san áireamh. tá an ceart seo cumhdaithe sna conarthaí, conradh liospóin san áireamh.
in writing. − i fully support the concept of the internal market scoreboard as a tool for measuring the success of the single market. this is an essential tool for communicating how member states treat european law. it also shows that the burden of over-regulation which often tarnishes the image of the eu, is often not the fault of any eu institution but of the member state itself. there is a lesson to be learned here and greater transparency is needed in future.
we were all obviously very concerned about madeira and france. in my own country, fortunately, nobody was killed but the insurance problem manifested itself very quickly. lots of households cannot get insurance now and in one town, clonmel, where there was flooding a number of years ago, insurance has risen sixfold. obviously, that is a huge issue and i compliment the commissioner on looking into it. i would also just like to ask him about countries and governments that do not implement the floods directive. would he consider sanctions of some nature for them as well?
apropos what mr kelly raised, and that is the implementation of the floods directive: as you know, it has to be transposed into national law this year, 2010, in all 27 member states. what i would urge is that the commission keeps an eye on national authorities in relation to the implementation of it. in 1995, i was the minister with responsibility for flooding in ireland. we brought a report out at that stage that there should be no further building of new houses in flood plains. and yet many of the houses looking for compensation in parts of ireland were built post that. so we need to implement the floods directive very rigidly indeed and to impose penalties on the irish government and local authorities and on anybody who breaches the conditions of the floods directive.
i would like to thank the commissioner for her response. i welcome her commitment, as outlined, to the development of sport at grass roots level. because of the ratification of the lisbon treaty, i welcome the fact that the european union now has competence in the area of sport with a support budget. can the commission outline firstly how it intends to format the european union sports programme, and, secondly, say when we can expect the first communication from the commission on this issue?
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom mo bhuíochas a ghabháil leis an gcoimisinéir. ag éisteacht leis an gcoimisinéir, is léir go bhfuil a lán oibre déanta ó thaobh luas agus alcól a bheith mar chúiseanna do thimpistí bóithre. ach, is léir nach bhfuilimid ag déanamh taighde air seo ó thaobh druggaí de. cúis mhór le beagnach 25% de na timpistí bóithre san aontas eorpach gach bliain isea a bheith ag tiomáint ar meisce nó faoi thionchar druggaí. cailltear 10 000 duine chuile bhliain de bharr na dtimpistí seo. ach caithfimid níos mó a dhéanamh ó thaobh druggaí de, mar is léir gur cúis mhór í ó thaobh timpistí bóithre de agus ó thaobh marú daoine ar na bóithre seo. táim ag moladh don choimisinéir go gcaithfimid i bhfad níos mó a dhéanamh. fáiltím roimh an taighde ach caithfimid i bhfad níos mó a dhéanamh ó thaobh éifeachtachta de.
vice-president of the commission. − as i said, i have had personal experience and i do not see any reason to start changing the system again or to make some changes to this system. it can become more complicated.
vice-president of the commission. − the protection and promotion of fundamental rights should not be seen in opposition to the measures addressing the continuing threat of terrorism: they should go hand in hand. anti-terrorism activities must be conducted with the full respect for the principle of the rule of law and the full respect of fundamental rights as they are enshrined at the level of the european union in the charter of fundamental rights. this is not a question of compromise or balancing one requirement against the other; it is a question of delivering both but without compromising on fundamental rights of course. complying with fundamental rights does not prevent the adoption of effective security measures, and this has been recognised by the way in the stockholm programme which calls on the european institutions to ensure that all tools deployed to fight against terrorism fully respect fundamental rights. therefore, i believe that this is a question of balance and not a question of balancing the one against the other.
as far as i am concerned, hammer the terrorists, hammer the criminals. i have no problem with that whatsoever, but what i am concerned about is that we, as parliamentarians, are not stressing sufficiently, either in the european parliament or in member states, that we expect that to be done in a way that protects the public, rather than undermining it or its privacy, that data is protected, that citizens’ privacy is protected and that citizens who are innocent and law-abiding are not subject to intrusion by the state. it is imperative that this is included.
vice-president of the commission. − i could not agree more with the honourable member. you know, from my hearing and also from my actions before as telecoms commissioner, that data protection is very high on the agenda. i have pledged to reform the data protection directive of 1995 in order to adapt it to the modern world of technology, but i have also made it very clear that it is not because we have to protect society that we can give data out. the private data of the individual cannot be jeopardised by other measures. i have seen how parliament argued and voted on the swift question. the commission will take the views of parliament into consideration when developing a new mandate in order to have a new swift agreement with our american partners: one which balances the right to privacy and the need to combat terrorism.
vice-president of the commission. − i am very sorry, i do not have this question. i have many questions here, but not this one. (the president proposed that the question be answered in writing.)
i shall be perfectly happy to get a reply from the commissioner in writing.
vice-president of the commission. − i am sorry. something must have gone wrong in the organisation.
i would hope that the commissioner would look carefully at what i have suggested given the possibilities with 2011 as the european year on volunteering, and perhaps also look at the possibility of a green paper following on from that after consultation with voluntary groups etc. i also hope that you take on board the importance of using either the ilo manual or the un handbook to measure volunteering across the member states.
in writing. – the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement has a mandate which is vital for the protection of intellectual property rights. post-crisis, there needs to be an incentive for intellectuals and artists to use their creativity and publish new material, without fear, online. this right needs to be balanced against an individuals right to access to information and furthermore sanctions should only be targeted at the larger commercial expoliters of copywright material. however that is an issue for another day. right now i am most concerned about the level to which this house is being kept informed of negotiations. under lisbon, this agreement requires to approval of this house and i would guess from my colleagues that the way the agreement is developing it will recieve a cold reception. negotiations surrounding acta need to be more open, and the commission and council need to show their willingness in this by ensuring the parliament has broad access to documents on the issue.
author. − mr president, the system whereby the eu gives preferential treatment in trade to some countries has been in place since 1971. it is supposed to be a mechanism to resolve trade imbalances between developed capitalist countries and the poorer countries of the world and to contribute to sustainable development. commissioner, will you agree that in that respect it has been really a dismal failure and that eu trade agreements have mainly benefited eu-based transnational corporations who use their superior resources to batter small local producers in many poorer countries, causing serious dislocation, including loss of local employment and environmental destruction? is that not the real meaning of the eu commission’s document strategy paper on ‘global europe: competing in the world’, published only three years ago? and, commissioner, what hope have the working people of africa, asia and latin america when your commission, only in recent weeks, cravenly bent the knee to the criminal speculation of free-booting hedge fund merchants seeking massive quick profits through outrageous speculation against the euro and greece in particular? and you handed over the working class of greece and the poor of greece to the tender mercies of these parasites – criminals in fact. what hope have the poor and working people outside the borders of europe in view of that situation? now the question asks how the eu commission evaluates whether the states that benefit from preferential trade agreements with the eu protect workers’ rights and protect human rights. please tell us that. and how can you continue relations with the government of colombia, where quite clearly government-controlled agencies, especially the army, are ongoingly guilty of the most heinous crimes, as only recently shown in the horrific discovery of the mass grave of innocent murder victims in la macarena. and, finally, what is the commission’s up-to-date view with regard to continuing gsp+ with sri lanka, considering that after the election the policies of mr rajapaksa’s government continue to be against human rights and workers’ rights in that country?
mr president, i want to congratulate vice-president ashton on a speech with vision and substance. the problem that some people have with you, vice-president ashton, is that you are not a macho general or, indeed, a narrow nationalist. i welcome in particular your emphasis on the rule of law between countries and urge you actively to insist that this is the case in the middle east. also your commitment to the important principle of collective gains as against minimal member state losses. the middle east is perhaps the most volatile region capable at the moment of stumbling into a widespread conflagration. you must work closely with the united states and press for the council statement of 8 december to be central as a framework for progress there. finally, i want to recommend strongly that you support the idea of a policy that the middle east be a nuclear-free zone.
mr president, i am very happy to support the lehne report, which will help to reduce the administrative burden on micro-enterprises. one of the things that comes up again and again when you speak with small businesses is the issue of over-regulation and red tape and of being smothered under a deluge of paperwork. they do have a sound argument when they say that it is reasonable, as micro-enterprises, that they should not be subject to the same rules and regulations as bigger business. the decision we took today is a sensible one and a well-founded response to the concerns of struggling small businesses in europe. most of the time we are proposing new legislation in this house, but today we modified a piece of legislation. this will lead to a better business environment and increased competitiveness for small businesses and was well worth doing.
mr president, i abstained on the financial transaction taxes resolution because it is hopelessly inadequate for tackling the obscene antisocial speculation around the world by giant hedge funds and so-called ‘prestigious’ banks like goldman sachs. the wall street journal recently reported on a private dinner in new york on 8 february, involving 18 major hedge funds, where speculation against the euro was discussed. for months now these financial sharks, known as hedge funds, which control over eur 2 000 billion, have been deliberately speculating against the euro, and against greece in particular, in order to reap billions in private profit. incredibly, the eu commission not only fails to raise a finger to stop them, but actually conspires with these financial criminals by bullying the workers and poor of greece, demanding that their living standards be savaged to pay the ransom demanded by these parasites. we do not need a financial tax. what we need is to take public ownership and democratic control of these hedge funds and major banks in order to use their massive resources for investment that will end poverty and benefit society, rather than destroying society for private greed.
mr president, with regard to the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta), the current negotiations completely lack transparency. to use the current negotiating formula to generate a global agreement is totally contrary to the transparent and democratic processes that we should expect from our lawmakers. regardless of the content of the agreement, it is unacceptable to avoid public scrutiny when generating policies that will directly affect so many european citizens. on the issue of content, we need to pay full attention to the european data protection supervisor, who has issued a very strongly worded opinion on these negotiations. he strongly encourages the european commission to establish a public and transparent dialogue on acta. he also states that, while intellectual property is important to society and must be protected, it should not be placed above individuals’ fundamental rights to privacy, data protection and other rights such as presumption of innocence, effective judicial protection and freedom of expression. finally, he states that a ‘three strikes’ internet disconnection policy would profoundly restrict the fundamental rights and freedoms of eu citizens. this is a very important issue for all eu citizens, and how the commission and parliament deal with it will say a great deal about accountability and transparency.
in writing. − having visited gaza earlier this year, i have seen in person how vital it is that parliament acts in this area. the goldstone recommendations need to be implemented in full, and i will be tracking this issue over the coming months.
in writing. − i sponsored this resolution which stresses that respect for international human rights and humanitarian law is an essential prerequisite for a just and lasting peace in the middle east; it expresses concern at the pressures being exerted on ngos by israeli and gaza authorities because they cooperated with the goldstone enquiry; it calls for an unconditional end to the blockade of gaza and calls for europe to publicly urge israel and palestinians to implement the goldstone recommendations. “ the goldstone report itself concludes that the extremely high mortality among civilians including over 300 children arose from an israeli policy of deliberately using disproportionate force contrary to international law. it also concluded that the siege of gaza is tantamount to collective punishment of the 1.5m population, contrary to international law. it recommends that the state parties to the geneva conventions (which includes ireland), should prosecute those responsible for these policies and their implementation. i am currently preparing a formal complaint to the irish police based on the findings of the goldstone report, to enable the director of public prosecutions to consider the case for prosecutions in ireland of those responsible.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution as it underlines the horrific circumstances that the vast majority of the palestinian population in gaza live in today and, in particular, calls for the ‘immediate’ and ‘unconditional’ opening of all gaza’s borders. i fully support the right of the palestinian population to self-determination and their right to defend themselves against the repeated attacks of the israeli army and state forces. however, i strongly disagree with the ideas of right-wing political islam and of hamas. i also oppose individual attacks against jewish workers that further divide israeli and palestinian working class people. this only serves the israeli government and other extreme right wing groupings in israel with a pretext to launch further attacks on the palestinian population. the israeli government does not serve the interests of the palestinian masses, nor of the israeli working class. attacks on living standards and democratic rights need to be jointly defeated by israeli and palestinian workers. the only solution that can achieve lasting peace in the region is a socialist israel, alongside a socialist palestine, in which borders are mutually agreed by both communities and are part of a democratic socialist confederation of the middle east.
madam president, let me take the opportunity to wish baroness ashton well during her term in office and i would like to welcome her commitment to maintaining close cooperation with parliament in the development of what she describes as a more coherent eu policy on the arctic. the european union of course has a central role to play in arctic policy. two arctic states, iceland and norway, are members of the eea. eu policies in areas such as the environment, climate change, energy, research, transport and fisheries, have a direct bearing on the arctic. in my capacity as chairman of parliament’s delegation to switzerland, iceland, norway and the eea, i am therefore the representative of parliament on the standing committee of parliamentarians of the arctic region. in this capacity i would like to inform the house that in september of this year the parliament in brussels will host the biannual meeting of parliamentarians of the arctic region. beidh cruinniú ullmhúcháin ar siúl in washington an tseachtain seo chugainn agus in oslo níos giorra don chruinniú sin. creidim go mbeidh óstáil na gcruinnithe sin fíorthábhachtach do pharlaimint na heorpa agus go deimhin don aontas eorpach.
madam president, i have no doubt but that everyone in the house will have understood what i said! i said in conclusion that we would host the conference and i would hope that, subject to your availability, of course, that you might consider my invitation to attend part of this meeting, baroness ashton. it is an ideal basis, i believe, for developing a greater understanding of the issues involved, and it enables parliamentarians from across this vast region to forge and to strengthen ties.
acting president of the council. - madam president, on the question of greece, it is of course precisely the question of respecting the borders of the member states of the union. the aim of these agreements is precisely to ensure that these borders are respected. when there is an agreement with a third country through which illegal immigration can flow, and there is a readmission agreement - and that is the goal - and therefore the agreements of the european union with that third country are strengthened - and that is the overall approach and philosophy of the european pact on immigration - what is happening is a strengthening of the borders of the member countries of the union. that's the effect. if there is no such effectiveness in controlling illegal immigration because there is not enough cooperation from other countries, because there are no such readmission agreements, those borders are weakened in practice. the aim of these negotiations and readmission agreements is therefore clearly to strengthen the borders, of course including greece. as regards the question put to me by the honourable member about british citizens who have gone to spain and invested some of their savings in spain, i must say that i am obviously not here representing spain as a country in its legal relations with citizens who are there - those relations or the problems that may have arisen are being resolved before the independent courts of the spanish state - but i am representing the council of the union. i shall therefore refrain from speaking on behalf of any particular country on specific issues which are not relevant to european union law.
acting president of the council. - madam president, it is well known that one of the priorities of the spanish presidency of the council of the union is the fight against gender violence, that is to say, equality between men and women in the european union, which has not been fully achieved fifty years after the birth of the union. violence against women is, above all, the greatest form of discrimination, the greatest scourge of european society and of other societies in the world, of practically all, unfortunately. that is an essential objective of the presidency, because it is, we understand, an essential objective of europe. and for that reason, because it is a european objective, a problem of a european dimension, a european strategy is also required to combat this phenomenon. that is what the spanish presidency has included in its programme, and not only the spanish presidency, but the trio of presidencies, with belgium and hungary, in its programme of a year and a half, of eighteen months. we are glad that the european parliament is precisely the institution which has always played a very active role in this field and has repeatedly called for action in this direction, against gender-based violence. for example, in a resolution adopted in november last year, the european parliament called on the commission to draw up a general directive on measures to prevent and combat all forms of gender-based violence. the european parliament also urged member states to develop statistics on gender-based violence. the spanish presidency, echoing the european parliament's position, has considered this matter, as i said, a crucial one. in particular, the creation of an observatory on gender-based violence has been initiated, starting with the employment, social policy, health and consumers council (epsco), which approved conclusions in this regard on 8 march, working women's day, last monday. the directive on the protection order against gender-based violence is also being drawn up. these are two very important, fundamental initiatives which we hope will be developed and completed before the end of the spanish presidency of the council of the union.
thank you, minister, and i congratulate the spanish presidency on highlighting the issue of gender-based violence. too often that issue is literally kept behind closed doors, because that is where most of the violence happens: in the family home. i believe that your initiative will certainly lead to greater public awareness across the eu. you spoke of the resolution adopted by the european parliament in november 2009. one of the things that resolution asked for was the possibility of establishing a clear legal basis in this area. i wonder whether you would be supportive of the commission drafting a comprehensive directive on action to prevent gender violence, and what your view is on establishing a clear legal basis.
can the council outline how it will ensure that the active inclusion recommendation, which is a tool for fighting family poverty and which has been endorsed by the employment, social policy, health and consumer affairs council, is integrated into the eu 2020 strategy and implemented so as to ensure progress on poverty reduction?
madam president, there are two brief points i wish to make. the first relates to the importance of investment in low-carbon technologies and the second to carbon capture in agriculture. firstly, in realistic terms, it is essential that the eu focuses its attention and budget towards the strategic energy technology plan. for the eu to reach its 2020 target figures, there is no doubt that increased targeted investment in low-carbon technologies is essential. secondly, there must be increased research and investment in carbon capture and storage as a practical way of combating climate change. here agriculture can play a key role in carbon sequestration and can contribute to the 2020 targets. soil biomasses and natural carbon sinking – carbon in soil – could bring added benefit for farmers by reducing erosion and fertiliser inputs. further research and investment is required in order to fully utilise agriculture and agricultural land to capture carbon and assist in reaching 2020 targets. for measurable results to be delivered, innovation and research in low-carbon technologies must be adequately and effectively supported.
madam president, we all agree that greater energy efficiency is the first step in the chain, but i want in my contribution to draw your attention to the political confusion and anxiety surrounding bio-energy. i think that this house in particular and the commission, and europe in general, ran away from parts of bio-energy when we had the food price hikes of 2007 and 2008. few of us are talking about the realities for most farmers across europe now, which is a crisis of confidence because prices have collapsed. yet there is no coherent political message to them on land use and using their land to grow energy crops. in ireland in particular we have the government running away from this area. look, what industry needs is political certainty; what politicians fail to deliver is that certainty, and we have reaped the reward for it. if we are talking about investing in research and there is no uptake of the research because we will not make the right political decisions, we are wasting our time.
a uachtaráin, d’éist mé leis an díospóireacht agus bhí sé an-suimiúil. léigh mé gach rud a bhí mé in ann a léamh faoin ábhar seo. i just want to make two points. number one: the question has been asked, where is the funding going to come from? number two: how is the research and development to be coordinated? it seems to me there is an opportunity here for the three institutions of the european union – experts from parliament, from the council, from the commission – to come together as a steering group. number one: to source the funding that is required in the public/private partnerships, with possible targets for each country; and number two: to oversee and coordinate research. it should be r&d&d – research, demonstration and delivery – and with some of the funding certainly dependent on a successful outcome, otherwise every professor around europe will be trying to do research, and it will be uncoordinated at the end of the day.
in writing. – to make carbon technology a practical reality we need to address the shortage of engineers and other high-skilled personnel designing and producing advanced technologies. we can do this by setting up or intensifying training schemes or scholarships to ensure that workers’ skills are upgraded in time for economic recovery. we need to ensure a supply of highly qualified and well-educated workers with the right combination of both theoretical and practical skills. we also need to tackle persisting barriers to mobility within the eu, in particular for researchers and highly skilled people and to address the issue of eu-wide recognition of engineers’ qualifications. we need to financial markets & institutions tend to be cautious about investing, particularly where smes are concerned number of eu schemes supporting innovation, although they need to be better synchronised and coordinated from both supply and demand perspectives. need to facilitate cooperation between smes and research institutes, promoting ipr (intellectual property rights) and technology transfer. eei businesses themselves need to become more proactive in supporting cluster initiatives and joining clusters. stimulate research and innovation through tax incentives or innovation vouchers, and by improving the conditions for risk capital investment, for instance for business angels or cross-border venture capital .
mr president, i agree with everything that mr guerrero salom has said in relation to our response. i have to say that i was initially shocked when i heard that what the european union – baroness ashton – was going to donate was something in the region of eur 3 million. eur 3 million is nothing in terms of the consequences and the fallout and the devastation caused. last time we were here – four weeks ago – we were discussing haiti. this morning we are discussing the xynthia storm in europe, and we are also discussing the fallout from the chilean earthquake disaster, which happened just over two weeks ago. then you had the aftershock of 6.6, which in itself was absolutely devastating. the fallout is there. the consequences are there. the statistics are there. we are talking about 500 000 – half a million – houses destroyed. these have to be rebuilt, and that is where we come in with practical help. there are approximately 540 people dead, and the dead are still being exhumed from the ruins. that is a natural disaster in itself. but we are talking about an overall bill of eur 22 billion. we really need to up our particular contribution in that regard. one of the selling points in relation to the lisbon treaty – and we know that in ireland we rejected lisbon i – was that we were going to have an immediate humanitarian response to natural disasters. i have to say that whether it be haiti, southern europe or from the point of view of the situation in chile, we have not responded. i know it is early days, but we really need to get our act together. what we need above all else is practical help: (a) money, (b) clean water, (c) restore the electricity supply and (d) get the economy up and running as quickly as possible.
mr president, i just want to say that i think it is time that we had a conclusive paper on nuclear energy to outline the progress and the safety measures that have been brought to bear on it and how that will transpose itself in future into research that will be undertaken so that citizens can make up their minds. there is a lot of scepticism about it – a lot of doubt – and that needs to be clarified, which will take a lot of the difficulties out of this debate on low-carbon technology. finally if i may say, on this, the anniversary of the declaration of independence of lithuania and estonia, i congratulate those countries on 20 years of independence.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and was very happy that it was passed by the parliament. following similar if less severe weather circumstances in ireland involving flooding and the recent snow, i know how deeply these tragedies affect families and citizens of the eu, and it is important that this house acts to help in any way that it can.
author. − mr president, i welcome this cross-party resolution calling for the release of israeli soldier gilad shalit held captive since 2006 by the military wing of hamas. i agree with gilad’s father, who has asked that his son’s case be addressed as a humanitarian issue and not be turned into a political football. in the cut and thrust of political debate we must never lose sight of the suffering of both israeli and palestinian families whose loved ones have been taken from them in this conflict. the geneva conventions must be respected by all sides. it is totally unacceptable that gilad shalit has been denied his rights as a prisoner of war to which the goldstone report categorically states he is entitled. his family have no information on the state of his health, either physical health or mental health. at the same time, amongst the 7 200 palestinian prisoners in israeli jails, also held in breach of the geneva conventions, 1 500 are held for an indefinite period and 13 have already served 25 years. forty-four are children while 23 members of the palestinian legislative council are detained in retaliation for the capture of gilad shalit. again, goldstone is clear: these detentions of plc members are contrary to international law. i will raise these issues at the euromed parliamentary assembly in jordan this weekend. i urge catherine ashton during her upcoming visit to the region to press the israeli and palestinian authorities, including those in gaza, for the release of gilad shalit and of palestinian children and plc members and to ensure their safe and early return to their families.
mr president, as somebody who has campaigned twice for a ‘yes’ vote to lisbon and promoted the citizens’ initiative as positive, i disagree with my colleague. i think it is not just a fig leaf. yes, there are constraints, but it has potential and it is a real meaningful step towards facilitating participatory democracy. i have discussed this matter with citizens. i have facilitated citizens to participate in the commission’s consultation and in the hearings in the petitions committee. however, we must not just consult with citizens: we must listen to what they say and we must ensure that their views are taken on board in any legislation we produce. this is an opportunity for the eu institutions to clearly show that the citizens’ initiative will reflect the views of european citizens from start to finish. this legislation must be citizen-friendly and it must be highly visible. there must also be easily accessible assistance and help given to citizens who wish to organise a petition. it should be made clear where the commission can act and where the commission cannot act. it would simply lead to further accusations of a democratic deficit and cynicism and anger on behalf of citizens if a million signatures were to be gathered for a petition and then it were deemed to be outside the competence of the eu. so we need absolute clarity on this and we need to be proactive. while we need to squeeze every possibility out of this legislation, we must not promise more than we can deliver. the citizens’ initiative is like a newborn baby. it has unlimited potential but it must be handled with care when it takes its first tentative steps.
mr president, this is one of the most important democratic advances for the european union. two thirds of the people of ireland voted for the lisbon treaty and one of the reasons was because of the availability of this citizens’ initiative. for the first time citizens on a transnational basis can request that the commission bring forward proposals. but this needs to be a transparent process. we must know who is organising these initiatives and we must know who is funding these initiatives. they must not be captured by corporate interests. the commission, which will have to decide on whether or not to act on a proposal, must not be the body that decides on its admissibility, in my view. i believe we must expand the role of the ombudsman to decide on a central european level what is admissible and what is not admissible. the minimum number of states that is necessary, i believe, should be seven, not nine, as proposed or indeed as suggested by the commission, and i must argue and insist that the one million threshold set by the treaty should not be breached. it must not be raised by having a high proportion of citizens in member states and a high number of member states. it is extremely important that the treaties are complied with. and, finally, could i say that i believe it should be possible to enable citizens to register on the internet.
a uachtaráin, tá a lán rudaí suimiúla déanta ag ár gcomhghleacaithe maidir leis an gceist seo agus d’aontaigh siad d’aon ghuth gur iontach an áis í seo i lámha ár saoránach. the citizens’ initiative was a powerful and convincing argument against the ‘no’ side in the lisbon treaty referendum in ireland, especially when they argued that it was a grab for power by the european union rather than a truly democratic attempt to involve the citizens. but there is a big difference between putting something into a treaty and putting it into effect, and there is a big challenge here for us. on the one hand, there is a danger – and a real danger – that the process could be hijacked by vested interest groups and by powerful lobbies who would have no difficulty in getting a million signatures. that is why the suggestion by my colleague mr de rossa concerning the involvement of the ombudsman might be well worth considering. on the other hand, however, this has real possibilities for citizens. one initiative started by my colleague mr de castro is well worth considering, that of making sunday special and whether we want to rest on the seventh day, like our creator, or treat it the same as any other day of the week. that is an important consideration. so i think there is great scope here, and i look forward to its development.
madam president, a major campaign of people power in val di susa in north-west italy seeks to stop a high-speed train project known as tav being built. stretching from the french border to turin, the very beautiful val di susa is only one to two kilometres in width but already has a major motorway, another main road and a railway line. the ‘no tav’ campaign has clearly shown that there is no justification for tav. only 38% of current rail capacity is used. it would be massively damaging to the environment, destroying or polluting aquifers and releasing dangerous concentrations of asbestos and uranium from tunnel excavations. only big business and major construction interests stand to gain. tens of thousands of people have mobilised in opposition and, scandalously, police violence is being used to intimidate the campaign. i call on the eu to withdraw all funding for tav and for the cancellation of tav. the ‘no tav’ campaign’s motto is ‘sarà dura’. they will not flinch. a victory for people power in val di susa would be a victory for common sense and for the environment.
madam president, it has now been over a year since the aircraft maintenance firm sr technics announced that they were closing their facility at dublin airport, with the loss of over a thousand jobs. in an effort to compensate for those losses, an application was submitted in october 2009 to the european globalisation fund (egf) on behalf of sr technics workers. however, this form was rejected as ‘incomplete’ by the commission and i can confirm that, almost five months later, the irish government has still not submitted a complete application. while the irish government has been distracted by an economic collapse of its own making and a spate of ministerial resignations in the last few months, an application form with the potential to transform hundreds of lives has been left sitting on a minister’s desk. this house is aware that the irish state coffers are bare. a cynic would be forgiven for thinking that the government’s inaction may be down to its own difficulty in meeting its end of the bargain if the egf payments are finally secured. would the irish government be prepared to do something about that?
a uachtaráin, mar a bhí mé a rá, bhí mé an-sásta nuair a chuala mé an iar-choimisinéir kuneva ag rá go raibh an-ghá le hathbhreithniú a dhéanamh ar threoir 90/314/ce ón gcomhairle. agus cén fáth? mar tá a lán lochtanna ann. ní thugann sé aird ar bith ar dhaoine atá ag cur a gcuid laethanta saoire in áirithe iad féin ar an idirlíon, gan úsáid a bhaint as comhlacht taistil. níl aon chosaint sa treoir do thomhaltóirí atá lonnaithe i dtír amháin agus a cheannaíonn táirge nó eitilt nó lóistín i dtír taobh amuigh den aontas eorpach. chomh maith leis sin níl eitiltí sceidealta luaite sa treoir. tá sé an-lochtach ar fad agus tá mé thar a bheith sásta a rá go raibh an ceart ag an iar-choimisinéir kuneva nuair a dúirt sí go raibh an-ghá le treoir nua.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, it is absolutely crucial that the g20 employment and labour ministers put quality jobs at the heart of their economic recovery plans. for many workers – as you are aware, commissioner – the picture is a dismal one, with unemployment increasing, working hours reduced, substantial pay cuts, the working poor you spoke of, and inadequate or non-existent training opportunities. at the same time workers see the banks being recapitalised, while small and medium-sized businesses – the drivers of economic growth – are being starved of funds and jobs are being lost. fiscal discipline and retrenchment must not take the place of a job stimulus plan, yet that is happening in many countries, including my own, ireland. the commission praises our fiscal discipline but we are haemorrhaging jobs. we are balancing the books but our workers are paying the price. the g20 ministers have to make a firm commitment to supporting decent work and prioritising job growth, alongside minimum income, social protection and training or re-training for those who do not have work. finally, i agree with you that they must commit to implementing policies consistent with ilo fundamental principles and rights and they must not allow the current economic crisis to be used as an excuse to weaken or disregard internationally recognised labour standards.
in writing. – while tuberculosis is viewed by many in the past tense and seen as a 19th century affliction, it continues to have a serious impact, both directly and indirectly, on the lives of hundreds of thousands of farmers across the eu each year. though tb in its human form has been contained in most eu countries since the middle of the 20th century, it continues to spread aggressively among livestock and affects 5% of cattle herds in my ireland east constituency each year. i recently received correspondence from a dairy farmer in county westmeath, whose herd of prized dairy cows has been all but obliterated since he first discovered tb on his farm less than a year ago. the badger-spread disease was first discovered on the day he was due to leave on a two-week holiday last june, and he has since lost 64 of his 82-strong herd. though tb in humans has been rightly tackled with full force by the eu in recent times, the bovine form of the disease, which results in millions of euro of lost revenue each year, should be seriously considered as we draft tb legislation for the future.
in writing. – the global financial and economic crisis has hit the developed world so deeply that we are now struggling with a social and unemployment crisis. but in the least developed countries such problems, for which they are not responsible, are compounded by the consequences of food and climate crises, with dramatic implications for a sixth of the world's population who suffer from hunger. as the largest combined aid donors, the eu member states must fulfil their official development assistance (oda) commitments, improve aid effectiveness and coordination and strengthen their efforts to achieve the millennium development goals by 2015. the extent of the damage caused by speculation in the financial sector highlights the importance of preventive measures such as taxation of financial transactions and warrants considering compensation from the sector for the costs of the crisis. as tax havens and off-shores deprive developing countries of multiples of the amounts raised through oda, inaction in this field is unacceptable.
a uachtaráin, rinne an ghéarchéim gheilleagrach dochar do bhallstáit ar fud an aontais eorpaigh. tá méadú fíormhór tar éis teacht ar rátaí dífhostaithe ar fud an aontais, agus is daoine óga is mó atá thíos leis seo. tá airgead poiblí roinnt mhaith ballstát imithe i léig de thoradh na géarchéime seo. chun aghaidh a thabhairt ar an gceist, ghlac rialtas na héireann bearta cinntitheacha i rith na mblianta 2008 agus 2009. unchecked, ireland’s deficit was heading towards 14% of gdp. the government’s action stabilised the deficit at 11.6% of gdp in 2010. the action taken by the government has gained recognition in international markets. since its last budget, in december of last year, the cost of irish borrowing, relative to benchmarking, has stabilised. in fact i understand that at the meeting of the committee on economic and monetary affairs this week the president of the central bank recognised and praised the actions of the irish government. in many ways ireland is ahead of many other countries in its fiscal adjustment. countries such as the uk and the us, both with deficits in excess of 10%, will have to undergo significant adjustment in order to restore sustainability to their public finances. can i say in conclusion that ireland is still a good location for business as the fundamentals of the irish economy are in place and we will retain our 12½%... (the president cut off the speaker)
a uachtaráin, vótálas i bhfabhar na tuarascála maidir leis an tionchar atá ag an ngéarchéim airgeadais agus eacnamaíochta ar thíortha bochta an domhain. cé nach dtugann an tuarascáil freagra radacach go leor ar fhadhbanna na dtíortha bochta, mar sin féin is féidir linn aontú le cuid mhaith de na nithe atá ann. is iad na daoine bochta agus tíortha bochta an domhain is mó atá thíos leis de bharr na géarchéime eacnamaíochta. ba cheart dúinn gach cabhair is féidir a thabhairt maidir le hinfheistíocht phoiblí, go mór mhór sna tíortha seo. ach caithfear a rá chomh maith nach bhfuil conarthaí trádála de chuid an aontais eorpaigh le tíortha bochta fabhrach dóibh i ndáiríre. is iad na comhlachtaí móra eorpacha a bhaineann an buntáiste is mó as na conarthaí seo; bíonn táirgeoirí beaga, feirmeoirí beaga agus an lucht oibre thíos leo, agus dá bhrí sin caithfimid an modh oibre seo a athrú maidir leis na tíortha seo.
mr president, like previous speakers, i too had an objection to the inclusion of paragraph 7. we were given a free vote by our group, but our delegation decided to vote against because – as speakers have said – talking about reproductive health rights is another way of saying abortion. if that is what is intended by it, it should be spelt out and not brought in under an economic crisis plan. so, like other speakers, we objected to that and voted against that section.
i scríbhinn. − tá feisirí eorpacha fhianna fáil, pat ‘the cope’ ó gallchóir agus liam aylward, go láidir i gcoinne a bhfuil beartaithe sa tuarascáil seo maidir le comhbhonn cánach corparáideach comhdhlúite (ccctb sa bhéarla) a thabhairt isteach. ní chuirfeadh comhbhonn cánach corparáideach comhdhlúite san eoraip le hiomaíochas an aontais eorpaigh nó le feidhmiú an mhargaidh aonair agus, thairis sin, d’fhéadfadh ccctb cur isteach ar gheilleagair bheaga oscailte, mar atá in éirinn. is inniúlacht do na ballstáit aonair amháin é ceist an chánachais agus tá an ceart ag rialtas na héireann a chumhacht crosta a úsáid i dtaca le haon bheart cánach, ccctb san áireamh. tá an ceart seo cumhdaithe sna conarthaí, conradh liospóin san áireamh.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the giegold report because there is a need for continued detailed debate on the various issues that arise in this report. it is necessary to ensure that different corporate tax regimes do not enable companies to evade their responsibilities to support society by a share of their profits through a fair corporate tax regime. however particular attention needs to be given to the negative impact that a ccctb could have on small countries such as ireland, whose prosperity and employment levels depend to a large extent on its capacity to attract foreign investment. the irish labour party does not support the introduction of ccctb.
in writing. − at a time of serious economic and social crisis, we need to increase efforts to coordinate macroeconomic and structural reform strategies across national borders so as to tackle the imbalances that hinder the generation of jobs. i share the concerns regarding imbalances within the euro area, such as speculation in the construction sector, whose excesses contribute to asymmetric shocks, and call on the commission to study possible mechanisms to improve the economic governance of the euro area and curb the expansion of such imbalances. the need for stricter regulation and supervision of financial crisis is as urgent as ever. any european discussion on a common consolidated corporate tax base has to have regard to the needs of geographically marginal regions of the eu such as ireland and their capacity to attract fdi. a ccctb is not about a common tax rate. taxation of companies is the exclusive responsibility of each member state. the idea of ccctb is to establish a common legal basis for the computation of profits of companies with establishments in at least two member states, to ease the bureaucratic burden on them to establish compliance with the tax codes of the states in which they are operating.
in writing. − i do not support paragraph 29 as it calls for the introduction of ccctb. one of the things we are told about ccctb is that it will be more efficient and that it will simplify matters. given that, as it now stands, companies can opt in or opt out, we would end up with 28 tax bases instead of the current 27; that is hardly simplification. as it is currently proposed, ccctb would mean the redistribution of european profits across the eu, so a country like ireland, which exports a lot of what it produces, would be penalised because the profits, of course, would be at the point of sale. it does seem a little bit strange since at the core of the eu we have the free movement of goods; therefore we would end up, if we use ccctb, by penalising exporting countries. its introduction would damage europe’s capacity to attract foreign direct investment, because the rules as such would not apply to the member state in which it was located but would be by some reference to a complicated formula which can only be calculated in retrospect, which would damage our capacity to attract foreign direct investment.
in writing. − i was in favour of the recommendation to the council on the 65th session of the united nations general assembly, which calls for strengthened eu visibility at the united nations. the european union needs to support and encourage global governance reform, particularly as regards the security council, whose make up does not reflect the realities of the 21st century. the ambition to gain an eu seat within an enlarged security council has to be pursued. if the european union is to further multilateral approaches to global challenges, its member states must act coherently and consistently at the un level, particularly in light of the forthcoming review conferences for the millennium development goals and the non-proliferation treaty, as well as the review of the human rights council's status and working methods. we need to push for deeper involvement of national and transnational parliamentary assemblies in the works of the un system, so as to strengthen its legitimacy and democratic nature. the member states should make every effort to have this matter included in the assembly's agenda.
i scríbhinn. − vótáil mé i bhfabhar na tuarascála seo ar na tosaíochtaí do bhuiséad 2011. mar atá ráite sa tuarascáil, ní mór tacaíocht ar leith a thabhairt d’fhiontraíocht agus do mhionghnóthais, agus ní foláir na ceisteanna seo a chur i gcroílár bheartas an aontais eorpaigh maidir le hóige agus nuálaíocht. éilíonn an tuarascáil cuidiú a thabhairt do na cláir agus ionstraimí ar fad a thugann spreagadh d’fhiontraíocht – i gceantair tuaithe go háirithe – chomh maith le cúnamh a thabhairt do chéim thionscnaimh gnóthas nua agus malartú taithí i measc fiontraithe óga a spreagadh. ba chóir tacaíocht a thabhairt do chláir a chabhraíonn le daoine óga atá ag tosú gnó nua. cuirim fáilte roimh an mbéim atá sa tuarascáil seo ar bheartas don óige agus ar an ról atá le himirt ag an óige agus sinn ag iarraidh teacht as an ngéarchéim eacnamaíochta agus airgeadais atá ann faoi láthair. tacaím go láidir leis an éileamh atá sa tuarascáil maidir le hinfheistíocht san óige agus san oideachas a mhéadú, mar a moladh i “stráitéis an ae don óige”. tá sé riachtanach go dtabharfaí aitheantas, spreagadh agus tacaíocht don ról agus tábhacht atá ag an óige don aontas eorpach agus do thodhchaí an aontais.
in writing. − planning for the 2011 budget is very important and i agree with the report's call for a carefully considered and transparent discussion. it is also correct in asserting that the issue of the budget threshold is a delicate one, and must take into account global costs. i am happy with the report's cautionary aspect. approaching this with anything less than caution would be an insult to the people of my home country and of all of europe who are facing their own budgetary concerns. i'd also like to take this opportunity to say that i hope our caution also shows our solidarity and fraternity with our greek and portuguese colleagues who are having a notably difficult time at the moment.
in writing. − i would like to commend my colleagues in the agricultural committee for this initiative report. the quality of our agricultural products is something that needs to be capitalised on. we devote a lot of time in the european union to making sure that the highest standards in farming are met; our livestock is well treated and healthy; our produce is safe; our farming practices ethical in relation to their impact on the environment. every step of the industry's chain of production is regulated, "from farm to fork" so to speak. in order to make the most of the industry's unique selling point - the high quality of its output - we need further promotion as pointed out in the scotta report. it is all very well to have products that are labelled according to their area of farming or according status as a traditional speciality, but unless the consumer is aware of its meaning it is in fact, like reading an alien language. so i agree that the report's recommendation for the commission to promote awareness of this information will be an effective form of marketing. it will help customers, and small businesses alike. it could be particularly beneficial to our agrifood sector.
in writing. − there is not much to say on this report that is not self explanatory. clearly, more than any other time, there is a need for financial institutions to pause and reassess their approach. in the last two weeks, two former high ranking officials in ireland's biggest bank have been arrested in dawn raids. this is a dramatic statement of the need for responsible and moral financial management. there is just one point i would like to make, and that is the greater need for transparency in our financial institutions be it at regional, national or eu level. this report calls for greater tranparency which im sure the majority of meps will support
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom a lán a rá faoin ábhar seo ach níl an t-am agam. dá bhrí sin labhróidh mé faoin ngéarchéim mhorálta. mr van rompuy said that the council discussed the moral crisis, but he did not elaborate; i would like him to so do. as an example, in my own country the anglo-irish bank and irish nationwide have played financial ping-pong so that auditors could not discover the true state of their finances. what has happened? the ceo of irish nationwide has ridden off into the sunset with millions in his back pocket while taxpayers have had their wages reduced dramatically. two weeks ago the management of the anglo-irish bank got an increase in wages while taxpayers had eur 40 billion and growing added to their bill over the next number of years. unless the perpetrators of these bad deeds are brought to heel, both individually and institutionally, not only will history repeat itself, mr van rompuy, but it will repeat itself in exactly the same way as it occurred in the first place. ba mhaith liom dá labhródh sé beagáinín faoin ngéarchéim seo.
madam president, travellers whose holiday plans have been ruined by the volcanic ash face confusion over insurance. although airlines will refund or rebook flights under the air passenger rights directive, many passengers face the cost of hotel rooms and car hire and perhaps alternative flight arrangements, but some travel insurance policies are expected to pay out for the losses. there are others claiming that this is an act of god, but i would call on these companies to be pragmatic, to be reasonable and to reconsider that decision, bearing in mind that i, like many others, have numerous constituents who are at airports in various parts of the world, costing them money that they do not have. i understand that the package travel directive is being reviewed, and this must be done urgently. in conclusion, it is essential that this travel directive ensures that there is a standard set of rules which applies to a situation of this kind. even at this stage, i would ask the commission to look at this.
member of the commission. − madam president, this debate on aviation security has been a fascinating one, and shows that we all have our own experiences in this field. in my case, i lost all the cheese i wanted to bring because it was tartinable! i thought that excessive, but nevertheless believe that we have provided improvement throughout the system. the commission proposal goes one step further because where there is security, there are also charges, and the first rule is transparency. the report and the commission proposal strengthen each other. on the question of who should collect the charges, my view is that subsidiarity is still the best way because, after all, it is not member states, but citizens, that pay. the only question is whether it should be all taxpayers that pay or just those who are passengers. that is not a simple question to answer, but i consider the subsidiarity aspect to our proposal to be in keeping with today’s aviation security arrangements. parliament is going one step further, in looking at the whole of the aviation security sector. we will see where that debate leads. i believe the commission has made a very decent proposal and am very glad that parliament has broadly accepted it and is, as usual, going a little further than does the commission proposal. i believe that the timing and scope of the proposal are correct.
in writing. – mr leightfried should be commended for a thorough and conclusive report, which had dealt effectively with many of the issues left open by the commission paper. however there are some questions which remain unresolved and these issues should be viewed in a new context following the prolonged closure of european airspace. with the aviation industry set to lose upward of €1bn as a result of the volcanic ash cloud, the eu must act quickly and decisively to ease the financial blow on the aviation industry. though commissioner almunia must be applauded for his favourable comments on the crisis today, we as meps also have the opportunity through this report to aid an industry which has just been brought to its knees for the third time in the last ten years. this house and our collegues in the european council and commission should begin to consider state funding to cover the proposed security costs, particularly in the event of a low passenger threshold not being passed. while these measures were not popular before the eruption last week, we are currently at the point where any missed opportunity to provide assistance to the aviation industry could prove to be fatal.
in writing. – i welcome this timely report which addresses the role agriculture can play in mitigating the impact of climate change. the fao report ‘the state of food and agriculture 2009’ underlines the necessity of livestock in food production worldwide. in order to meet the global demand for food, it is essential to maintain our current production levels. we will, however, need to find a balance between providing sufficient food for the world’s population, while producing this food in a way that does not lead to increased negative impacts on the world’s climate. the part that european farmers can play in this will come into clearer focus in the ongoing debate on the future shape of the cap post-2013 and it is essential that the eu assists our farmers in striking this balance. i fully support this ep report’s call to compensate farmers for their efforts in reducing emissions and to provide support in adapting to climate mitigation measures. the report’s proposal for the development of a strategy at eu level to address the impact of adverse weather conditions on eu agriculture is very welcome and indeed very pertinent, considering the exceptionally harsh climatic conditions experienced by farmers over the past months.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith fáilte a chur roimh na hiarrachtaí atá déanta ag coimisinéir kallas agus ag na hairí iompair chun an fhadhb seo a réiteach. despite the age of technology in which we live today, i think it is a reminder to us that we are in the hands of mother nature like never before. i come from a country – ireland – where we are two sea crossings from mainland europe. i do know that we, and the people that i represent, have felt the effects of this possibly more than any other citizens in other member states. after the announcements last night, there was real hope that the situation would ease. however, overnight it has changed again and the restrictions in our airspace have been extended until 13.00 today. many passengers are stranded in various parts – not just of europe, but many parts of the world – and our priority must be to try and help those people, to help the many people who have deaths in their families and who cannot get home. those people should be given priority by the airlines and not ignored by them and treated the same as any other passenger. the economic impact is immense and i am pleased that the commissioner will be heading up a group to establish the economic consequences of this. of course it is essential – and i think this is the real point – that the role of eurocontrol is strengthened as a result of the crisis, because volcanoes do not respect economic, geographic or political boundaries. we must deal with this from the centre. i agree that dealing with it from 27 perspectives, or countries, is not successful. one of the biggest problems facing the passengers today is the confusion... (the president cut off the speaker.)
mr president, could i respectfully ask that this debate be extended, because this exchange is far too polite. people are being treated like dirt in train stations, by airlines and by authorities in airports. we are being far too polite. we should be using the eu’s power in the council and in the commission to force people to open information points. in brussels central station there are six information points; four of them are closed. this debate should be far longer, and more members should be allowed to participate in it. i am not at all pleased with the action taken by the council and the commission to serve the interests of the travelling public, who are sleeping in train stations.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to thank both commissioners. there are three points i want to raise. the first is the method and measures to be used for measuring the reconstruction needs of haiti. the second is to ensure that the commitments we are making will be met, and the third is to talk about property rights and the vulnerability of people living, for example, in shacks built on property they do not own. first of all in relation to the reconstruction works, let me say that i recently conducted the launch for the world bank of a document explaining, in a very well-designed handbook, exactly how reconstruction should take place. are we going to use this handbook, or are we going to use similar measures, to ensure that the reconstruction effort in haiti is professionally carried out? the world bank has done excellent work on this. the haitian ambassador attended when i launched that particular book. secondly, in relation to commitments we are making, i am very glad to hear what the commissioner had to say about the eur 200 million which he is forwarding almost immediately. but will we be back here in a year, or in five years, or are we are last going to deliver on donor commitments to a poor country that simply cannot be left on its knees any longer? the third point i want to make is this. the extent of the destruction in haiti was such that we really have to look not just at the damage done, but at why that damage was so extensive. people who did not own property were living in ravines and on the sides of mountains, in shacks and in any thing they could put together, because they did not own the property in which they were living. if people have property rights, they will invest in building and constructing properties that have some chance of resisting future damage of this kind. so i ask that this point be given active consideration as part of the approach to dealing with this problem. again, i thank both commissioners for their presentation.
a uachtaráin, cuirim fáilte roimh an tuarascáil seo agus molaim an rapóirtéir as an sár-obair a rinne sé. ba mhaith liom aird a tharraingt ar chúrsaí trádála idir an aontas eorpach agus meiriceá laidineach. caithfear a chinntiú gur ar pháirc imeartha réidh a phléitear cúrsaí trádála. tá ar fheirmeoirí agus ar tháirgeoirí na heorpa cloí le neart rialacha agus táirgíonn siad bia agus earraí atá ar ardchaighdeán. gineann na caighdeáin arda seo costais táirgíochta níos airde d’fheirmeoirí agus do tháirgeoirí eorpacha agus is féidir leo seo a bheith ina míbhuntáistí sa mhargadh i gcás iompórtáil táirgí atá ar chaighdeán agus ar chostas níos ísle. ní ar mhaithe le táirgeoirí na heorpa amháin é go mba chóir dúinn a bheith ag tabhairt airde ar an gceist seo. tá an-obair á dhéanamh san aontas eorpach le cearta agus sláinte tomhaltóirí a chosaint agus a láidriú. tá dualgas orainn a chinntiú nach gcuireann earraí ná táirgí atá á iompórtáil san eoraip isteach ar na cearta seo nó nach gcuireann siad sláinte tomhaltóirí eorpacha i mbaol. (ghearr an tuachtarán isteach ar an gcainteoir. )
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, there has not been any assessment of the social, environmental and economic effects of an economic agreement between the european union and canada. the canadian union of public employees, with 600 000 members in areas such as health care, education, local municipalities, public utilities and transpor,t is seriously concerned about the effects of such an agreement. the national union of public and general employees, with 340 000 members in canada in the public and private sectors, is equally concerned, as is the public service alliance of canada, with 165 000 members. these workers are concerned because they understand that such an agreement will be implemented primarily in the economic interests of big business in both canada and in the european union and not primarily in the interests of working people or of social justice. now both the european and canadian transnational corporations want to break into the provision of public services in canada – on a maximisation-of-profit basis, of course. they see an eu-canada agreement as a vehicle to force extensive privatisation in areas like public transport, water provision and electricity. such a development would be ominous for canadian workers’ pay and conditions. it could be the beginning of a race to the bottom in exactly the same way as we have seen in europe, where the eu commission itself endorses the rights of private companies providing services to exploit workers, as proven when the commission took the luxembourg state to court for wanting migrant service workers to be given the same protection as luxembourgish workers. now, canadian water is a particular target of the water multinationals. some eu-based multinationals previously wreaked havoc in countries such as bolivia with water privatisation and their baleful influence is already being felt in canada. happily, ordinary people in canada are prepared to fight to protect their public water provision. they will need to be vigilant. the european public sector workers’ trade unions are also concerned, and i call on both canadian and eu-based unions to forge a real campaign to protect public ownership in public services with democratic control rather than maximisation of private profit, but not just a coming together at leadership but a real involvement of the rank and file to protect their public services.
can i thank the commissioner for the reply. just changing, slightly, there have been a number of news stories recently regarding the concept of content-based censorship which is occurring with this technology. some applications have been refused by operators and software manufacturers due to their political content. what can the commission do to ensure that there is increased competition in accessing information via new technologies and that the right to freedom of speech is not infringed upon?
deputising for the author. – given the fact that we live in an increasingly digital world, as you have acknowledged, where so much of our daily business is carried out online, one group that in my view has been left behind are older citizens, who have limited or no access to the internet. what can we do to ensure that they are not excluded from society, and what can we do to help them?
i travelled here with great difficulty from part of the european union and i do not accept the response from the commissioner that he has no time. if you have no time, walk out that door now. i am a member of parliament, i have a question down for answer here. i have a lot of engagements as well. i have sat here for a very long time waiting for my question while all sorts of supplementaries were answered. i should have the courtesy of a reply in this house. i think it is very arrogant of you to say you have no time.
first of all, can i apologise to the commissioner. we are all suffering a little bit of cabin fever because some of us have not been able to get home and are trying to help some of our families to move around the place. i realise that the commissioner has other appointments and is substituting for a colleague. could i ask the commissioner, in relation to his reply, what would constitute the medium term? are we talking half-way through the lifetime of this commission? are we talking a year, 18 months? what sort of period does he see for some more definitive response in this issue to materialise?
a uachtaráin, ó 1973 i leith tá thart ar eur 18 billiún faighte ag mo thír-se ó chiste struchtúrtha agus comhtháthaithe an aontais eorpaigh. thar na blianta, tá ról suntasach glactha ag beartas comhtháthaithe chun geilleagar na héireann a fhorbairt agus a athbheochan. tá an-tábhacht ag baint le ciste sóisialta na heorpa ach go háirithe agus muid ag iarraidh an dífhostaíocht a chomhrac in éirínn agus, ar ndóigh, san eoraip. ó d’aontaigh éire leis an aontas eorpach i 1973, tá tacaíocht airgeadas de bhreis is eur 7 billiún faighte ag an tír faoi chiste sóisialta na heorpa. these monies have primarily been used to help combat youth and long-term unemployment. under the eu human resources operational programme for ireland for the period 2007 to 2013, the european union is providing eur 375 million to ireland under the european social fund. the overall budget of this programme is eur 1.36 billion. these monies are being used to provide training courses for those who are unemployed, for people with disabilities, for early school leavers and for the marginalised in our society. we live in the age of globalisation. to respond to the challenges and opportunities that globalisation creates for the irish workforce, the european social fund in ireland is also supporting lifelong training courses, which can be adapted to the realities of a globalised jobs market. so the present economic and financial crisis has proven the relevance and the value of this important fund – the european social fund.
in writing. – firstly let me say that i welcome the moves of my colleagues, especially senor de castro, who has taken the initiative to start the debate on this issue. it is a fact, that today our farmers are faced with overwhelming obstacles when it comes to achieving a fair price for their produce. the effect on prices during the recent dairy crisis is just one example. stock intervention had its role to play in stabilising the market, as did the emergency dairy fund. but we are not out of the woods yet, so to speak. supermarkets present their hurdles when it comes to a fair deal for farmers. we all know how the average supermarket likes to present itself to the consumer as a "slasher" of prices. we need to be careful however, that the supermarket does not also continue slashing the prices going to our farmers. if the current system was allowed to continue indefinitely, there would be no incentive to farm and where would our rural society be then. this has to change. i hope the commission is as concerned about this as members of the parliament are.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development. − mr president, from a develop perspective the importance of budgetary discharge is in assuring taxpayers across europe that the money is being spent efficiently and effectively in the developing world, in terms of aid effectiveness, as well as matching our 0.7% target for oda contributions. we need to use our current aid budget effectively, that is not just more aid but better aid. we need to use eu money as a seed to grow local solutions. we need to look at opportunities to give people in the developing world ownership of their development, for example, and specifically to the promotion of land ownership for individuals, families and communities. countless women die giving birth every year. aids, malaria and tb still claim some four million lives a year. we have close on a billion illiterate people in the developing world. that is why we set the target between parliament, commission and council of spending 20% of the basic spending on education and health. i am interested in seeing whether we have met those targets. whenever i visit the developing world, i am struck by the intelligent and willing young people i meet. these young people are every bit as capable as young people everywhere. they need opportunity and encouragement to be enterprising. investing in education is the key to this. that is why parliament, commission and council agreed to those targets. we must now ensure by the audit system that we are meeting those targets. i want to say to the house here in the couple of seconds available to me that, in my view, one of the ways of relieving people from the terrible poverty they face is by investing in bringing about land ownership in the developing world. i can give an example of where that worked. it is in my own country in the 18th and 19th centuries. if you look at why ireland is divided it is because the successful people were given small pieces of land. it is time to stop just thinking of people in terms of aid, but to start thinking in terms of people as having the enterprising ability to do things for themselves if they are given the support.
mr president, i welcome this debate in advance of the council’s formal consideration of the commission’s proposed mandate. i also welcome the acceptance by the commission of many of the concerns expressed by this parliament when we rejected the interim agreement as inadequate. regretfully, due to circumstances beyond our control here today, we cannot adopt a parliament position on the draft mandate. we will vote on 6 may, and i strongly urge the council not to sign off on an agreement before that date. this parliament’s consent is a treaty requirement, as indeed is compliance with the charter of fundamental rights in any agreement that the council signs off on. it is extremely important to bear in mind that a short delay will be far less damaging to eu-us relations than a second rejection of a draft agreement. i, like many others, have continuing concerns about block data transfer and indeed the control of that data once it leaves our control. i am not satisfied so far that what is being proposed is in fact going to address those concerns. i do want closer cooperation between the european union and the united states of america, but that cooperation must be based on mutual respect for citizens’ rights.
i scríbhinn. − vótáil mé i bhfabhar na tuarascála maidir leis an bplean gníomhaíochta um leas ainmhithe 2006 – 2010. tá sláinte ainmhithe agus beostoic tábhachtach do mhuintir na heorpa, d’earnáil talmhaíochta na heorpa agus do gheilleagar na heorpa. fearaim fáilte roimh an méid atá sa tuarascáil maidir le béim níos mó a chur sa phlean gníomhaíochta ar an reachtaíocht atá ann cheana a chur i bhfeidhm. cinnte is gá cur i bhfeidhm rialacha eorpacha agus na gcóras pionóis maidir le leasa ainmhithe a fheabhsú chun a chinntiú go mbíonn bunchaighdeán sásúil san aontas eorpach ó thaobh leasa ainmhithe de. tá caighdeáin arda ag táirgeoirí agus feirmeoirí na heorpa. aontaím lena bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir lena chinntiú go gcloíonn táirgí ó ainmhithe, cosúil le feoil, atá á n-iompórtáil isteach san aontas eorpach leis na coinníollacha leasa ainmhithe céanna ionas go mbíonn iomaíochas cothrom agus páirc imeartha réidh ann do gach éinne sa mhargadh.
i scríbhinn. − vótáil mé i bhfabhar thuarascáil dorfmann maidir le talmhaíocht i gceantair atá faoi bhac nádúrtha (limistéir mhídheisiúla). sainíodh thart ar 75% de thalamh na héireann mar limistéir atá faoi mhíbhuntáiste agus tugann an scéim atá ann faoi láthair cúnamh do thart ar 100 000 teaghlach feirmeoireachta. tá an scéim seo riachtanach ó thaobh inmharthanacht agus forbairt tuaithe de agus i dtaca le dul i ngleic le tréigean talún agus bithéagsúlacht agus an timpeallacht a chosaint chomh maith. le maoiniú ceart, is féidir leis an scéim seo cabhair ioncaim a thabhairt d’fheirmeoirí atá ag déanamh a gcuid feirmeoireachta faoi choinníollacha fíor-dheacra. ós rud é go bhfuil srian ar fheirmeoireacht in éirinn de bharr cúinsí aimsire atá fuar agus fliuch, táim sásta a fheiscint go ndéantar tagairt sa tuarascáil do dheacrachtaí a bhaineann le feirmeoireacht a dhéanamh ar ithreacha do-oibrithe fliucha. fearaim fáilte chomh maith roimh an tagairt do ‘laethanta toillte réimse’ a chuidíonn leis an imoibriú idir cineál ithreach agus an aeráid a chur san áireamh.
i scríbhinn. − vótáil na feisirí pat ‘the cope’ ó gallchóir agus liam aylward i bhfabhar na tuarascála maidir le hurscaoileadh pharlaimint na heorpa maidir le cur i ngníomh bhuiséad ginearálta an aontais eorpaigh don bhliain airgeadais 2008, agus cuireann siad beirt fáilte roimh an méid atá sa tuarascáil maidir le trédhearcacht agus freagracht a fheabhsú. tá an trédhearcacht agus an fhreagracht seo riachtanach ó thaobh dhea-feidhmiúchán pharlaimint na heorpa de agus chun dea-rialú a spreagadh san aontas eorpach. thug an tuasal ó gallchóir agus an tuasal aylward tacaíocht ar leith do na leasuithe a lorg breis trédhearcachta agus iad siúd a mhol tuarascálacha na seirbhíse um iniúchóireacht inmheánach a chur ar fáil don phobal. ina theannta sin, thacaigh siad le moltaí maidir le heolas a chur ar fáil do cháiníocóirí na heorpa maidir leis an méid a dhéanann an pharlaimint le hairgead poiblí.
in writing. − i supported the resolution on the new commission recommendation to the council to authorise the opening of negotiations with the united states on the transfer of financial messaging data to combat terrorism. under the new provisions of the lisbon treaty, the interim agreement between the european union and the usa, signed in november 2009, required the consent of the european parliament. i voted against that agreement, which was blocked by parliament out of concern for the privacy rights of european citizens and companies, put at risk by unregulated bulk data-sharing arrangements. terrorism has to be fought decisively, but the means employed cannot be allowed to create an environment of insecurity for citizens rights which is the very objective of terror attacks in the first place. any new agreement needs to be subordinated to fundamental principles such as a strict limitation of exchanges to necessary counter-terrorism purposes and a european authority has to ensure judicial oversight and respect for fundamental rights requirements under eu law. the agreement needs to be limited in duration and liable for immediate termination should any obligation not be met.
madam president, like other colleagues, i think that if people are elected to the european parliament they are entitled to take their seats just the same as the 736 members have taken their seats in the last 12 months. this is a short-term problem which needs a short-term solution, because in four years’ time everything will have settled down and will work normally. i also think it is wrong to blame member states for not taking anticipated action 12 months ago because 12 months ago there was a strong possibility that the lisbon treaty would not be ratified, and certainly that was a position which many people felt in my own country and in other countries. but, now that everything has been ratified, it is important that the people who have been elected be allowed to take their seats so that they can contribute to parliament and we can get on until the next election in four years’ time, when everything will be, as they say, ‘hunky-dory’.
mr president, the key strategy the eu commission has for europe up to 2020 is reliance on neoliberal capitalism and a market system – in other words, the exact same factors that have plunged the world into the current economic chaos and illustrated in the commission’s and eu governments’ response to the financial crisis in greece: a shameful capitulation to the speculation and profiteering by the sharks in the financial markets; demanding that the greek working class, pensioners and poor should have their services and living standards savaged to feed the insatiable greed of these financial markets, which are not some kind of an all-powerful god, as media commentators would have us believe, but investment banks, hedge-fund operators, bond holders and the like – parasites seeking super profits by deliberately speculating to create financial instability and then exploiting that to bleed working people. is this the europe we want for 2020? it is pathetic to hear mr barroso appeal to them for responsibility: ask a shark to give up its taste for blood! the fightback by the greek working class should be supported by workers all over europe. we have to break the dictatorship of the market. that will be done not by idiots burning banks, but by sustained and mass mobilisations and strike action of working people and replacing this diseased system with democratic socialism and a real human society to be created by 2020.
mr president, i wish to draw the house’s attention to a matter of very serious urgency. a young irishman and eu citizen, michael dwyer, was shot dead in bolivia just over a year ago. many observers believe he was murdered. as yet, michael’s family, who are present in the house with us here tonight, have no answers as to how and why he died. the only official information which has been given out is that he died as a result of being involved in a supposed plot to assassinate the president of bolivia. this is very much out of character for someone who came from a loving, caring and apolitical family. however, the real issue here is that the information coming from the bolivian authorities cannot be trusted. their versions of events totally contradict each other, whether it is in forensic evidence, ballistic evidence or the very arguments that they put forward. so i urge this house and the eu’s new high commissioner for foreign affairs, catherine ashton, to support the irish government’s efforts to have an independent investigation established immediately. i do so with the support of irish meps across parties, who will be writing to her in the near future.
mr president, firstly i just want to say that everybody would agree at this stage that the car is no longer a luxury: it is a necessity. this was brought home very clearly to me two weeks ago when the volcanic ash struck. i had to go across europe, across england, by car and train and ferry, and i never felt so independent and happy as when i sat in my own car. so anything you can do to help the consumer to have choice etc. is very important, but not at the expense of the small to medium-sized car dealer. most of these are family-owned enterprises in local towns and local villages. they are doing a good deal for everybody, trying to satisfy the market and compete, obviously, in very difficult circumstances, so i agree totally with mr karas and other speakers that these people have to be taken into consideration to ensure their viability as we go forward.
mr president, it is estimated that 3.2 million european citizens are diagnosed with cancer each year, and, as the european population ages, current trends would indicate that the number of citizens diagnosed each year is likely to double – unfortunately – over the next 20 years. we must, of course, address the plague of cancer. cancer is caused by many factors. i want to outline what i believe: that smoking, being overweight, low fruit and vegetable intake, physical inactivity and excessive alcohol consumption are contributory factors. it is essential that health promotion strategies at european level and, indeed, at national level are strengthened and properly resourced. early detection is vital, and we have seen when we have early detection that it is so important that many people are still alive who would not have been if not for early detection. through cancer research, the european union can play a leading role: importantly, over eur 750 million has been devoted to cancer research under the seventh framework programme, and i would hope that more funding could be made available over the coming years. in conclusion i want to pay tribute to all of those, particularly to those in my own country, who provide such exceptional care to cancer patients.
a uachtaráin, gan aon agó is uafásach an galar í an ailse agus, mar a deir siad i mo thír féin, tá sé ag marú na tíre le daoine óga agus aosta ag fáil bháis den ghalar gach uile lá. chuirfeadh an staitistic go bhfuil seans ann go bhfaighidh duine as triúr ailse sceoin ar gach duine. ag an am céanna, tá dul chun cinn iontach déanta ag na hollaimh, ag na banaltraí agus ag na dochtúirí atá ag déileáil leis an ngalar seo. ach amach anseo beidh sé tábhachtach níos mó airgid a chaitheamh, go háirithe ar thaighde. tá ról tábhachtach ag an aontas eorpach maidir leis seo. ar an gcéad dul síos, an t-airgead a chur ar fáil don taighde agus, ar an dara dul síos, ord agus eagar a chur ar an taighde sin agus go háirithe comhoibriú a chothú idir na hinstitiúidí atá ag plé leis an taighde. má dhéanaimid é sin beidh dul chun cinn níos fearr déanta againn amach anseo agus beidh níos lú daoine ag fáil ailse agus ag fáil bháis den ailse.
in writing. – i warmly welcome this initiative and the possibilities it affords to the many millions of europeans predicted to be affected by cancer in the years to come. one of the most significant targets contained in the report is to dramatically reduce the burden of cancer by achieving 100% coverage in terms of screening for breast, cervical and colorectal cancer by 2015, by providing 125 million examinations to eu citizens per year. the onus must also pass to us as meps to use our access to the media and to our constituents to implore europeans to avail themselves of these crucial checks. there continues to be an alarming lack of knowledge both of the risks of cancer and of the opportunity for cancer screenings, and only through continuous education of these facts will this initiative enjoy the success that it and european citizens badly need.
mr president, i think it is not an exaggeration to say that the current economic crisis was brought about by a moderate crisis initially, a moderate crisis that saw greed triumph over generosity, corruption triumph over integrity and self-interest triumph over solidarity; and until we get back to generosity, integrity and solidarity being at the heart of corporate and government affairs we will never get out of the trouble we are in at the minute. i agree totally with every effort made to fight fraud. i have seen programmes in ireland showing people who were claiming social welfare in the republic of ireland, northern ireland and england every week, people flying in to cork airport and out again having claimed social welfare. the worst of all was the banks – allied irish bank and irish nationwide – playing ping-pong with accounting practices to hide their true situation. this has landed us in terrible trouble in ireland, and every effort must go to ensure that fraud is stopped. the message has to go out loud and clear that it is going to be pursued and dealt with very strongly at european level and at every level.
a uachtaráin, aontaím leis na comhleacaithe atá ag moladh na dea-oibre atá déanta ag an eib. in praising the eib we can see in it a stark contrast to the sad murky immoral story which has unfolded regarding the private banks with their extravagant remuneration packages and grotesque bonuses and total lack of corporate governance. the eib, partly perhaps because, as the president says, it is accountable to parliament, has been the exact opposite, and they are to be praised for their good and proper actions and in particular their swift action in reacting to the economic crisis. he did mention, and rightly so, that they earmarked smes for particular attention and support and i know that in my own country eur 300 million was allocated for smes through the eib. but the question is: is this reaching the smes, and, if not, can they establish why not? is there any recourse for businesses that are refused even if they seem to have good business plans? certainly in ireland every day there is evidence of companies going bust and even in the irish times on tuesday the heading was ‘state cuts fund to help enterprises by eur 22 million’. so we are not out of the woods yet. also i want to ask the question: there is also anecdotal evidence that private banks are using money that is supposed to go to smes for other activities at the banks. i would like to know: is this the case? can it be established, and, particularly, can we in parliament do anything to help establish those facts?
mr president, if we did not have the european investment bank, we would right now be desperately trying to set it up. i welcome the proposal to greatly increase the amount of loans and also support its role in helping non-eu developing countries. we are, however – i believe – wasting this valuable resource by not drawing on its expertise in the wider financial crisis. we urgently need a european mechanism for financial stability. by setting up a trust fund, as proposed by the party of european socialists, we would ensure that member states coming under attack from unscrupulous speculators could be supported without direct recourse to taxpayers and could ensure lower spreads. this would demonstrate clearly to the market – particularly the unscrupulous speculators – that we are not prepared to allow any member state to be brought down and destroyed, as is happening at this point in time with greece and is likely to happen to other member states, not least my own, in ireland.
tá ról an bhainc eorpaigh infheistíochta ríthábhachtach ó thaobh na ngnóthas beag agus meánmhéide de agus iad ag iarraidh maireachtáil trí ghéarchéim eacnamaíochta an lae inniu. gnóthaíonn gnóthais bheaga agus mheánmhéide 70% d’fhostaíocht na heorpa agus, mar gheall air seo, tá ról lárnach acu i bhfeidhmiúchán gheilleagar na heorpa. is é an deacracht is mó atá ag na gnóthais seo faoi láthair ná teacht ar mhaoiniú agus ar chaipiteal. ní mór fáilte a chur roimh ról lárnach an bei maidir le cúnamh a thabhairt do ghnóthais bheaga agus mheánmhéide agus ní foláir tacaíocht a thabhairt don bhanc sa mhéid seo. tá eur 30 billiún curtha in áirithe do ghnóthais bheaga agus mheánmhéide don tréimhse 2008-2011 agus bhain breis is 50 000 gnóthas san ae leas as maoiniú an bei sa bhliain 2009. fearaim fáilte roimh mholtaí na tuarascála maidir le feabhas a chur ar thrédhearcacht córas iasachta trí idirghabhálaithe airgeadais an bei. tá sé riachtanach go ndéanann na hidirghabhálaithe airgeadais na hiasachtaí seo a chur ar aghaidh chuig na gnóthais bheaga. ní mór córas faireacháin an bhainc maidir leis na hiasachtaí seo a fheabhsú chun éifeachtacht na n-iasachtaí céanna a chinntiú.
i greatly appreciate the continued support expressed by the european investment bank (eib) for ireland during the economic crisis. the eib has responded admirably to the serious liquidity constraints and the tight credit conditions resulting in serious problems in the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and the declining confidence in the financial markets. the eib has also played an important role in the european economic recovery plan, especially with regard to the enhanced financing for smes, energy from renewable sources and clean transport. it is crucial that the eib applies bolder risk-taking in its lending policy towards smes in order to allow smes to access capital for risk-taking projects. last year the eib provided ireland with eur 1.02 billion for six operations, the highest level ever achieved in ireland. i welcome the fact that banks acting as intermediaries are contractually obliged to lend to smes at least twice the amount of their loan from the eib, to ensure that the benefits derived from eib funding are passed on to smes. however, this regulation needs close supervision as many smes in ireland struggle to borrow from irish banks in receipt of eib loans.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, may i join with the commissioner in expressing my sympathy to the people of nigeria on the death of president umaru yar’adua. the recent outbreaks of violence in nigeria are emblematic of a wider problem that faces the country. the incidents that have taken place in jos, a city that has a history of violence, are very alarming. the city lies at a crossroads between the muslim north and the christian south, a fact that has led many to believe that the incidents are solely based on religious hatred. in our joint motion for a resolution we have called for a wider examination of the root causes of the conflict. coming from ireland i know that for far too long people spoke of the northern ireland conflict as a conflict between catholics and protestants, whereas in fact it was a much more nuanced thing than that and there were much more serious issues, including civil rights issues, at the heart of the problem. it is imperative that we should avoid simplistic assertions that these atrocious killings are the results of religious hatred alone. there are social, political and economic factors that must be considered before we reach conclusions. the ethnic rivalry between the hausa and the berom people must also be recognised as a factor in the violence. the killings are similar in method and consequence to previous clashes in 2001, 2004 and 2008. violence has been used in the past to settle differences and has once again triumphed over dialogue. it is extremely disappointing that a country like nigeria, which is the eighth-largest producer of oil in the world, has such a large proportion of the population living below the poverty line. it is only by ensuring peace and security, democracy and political stability, that nigeria can haul itself out of poverty and create a wealth and social justice which will in turn lead people away from violence as a method of conflict resolution. i urge the commission to continue dialogue with nigeria under the cotonou agreement, to examine the root causes of this conflict and to give every assistance necessary to ensure that these atrocities are not repeated.
mr president, the horrific massacre in plateau state in nigeria in january and march has left hundreds of innocent victims and especially very many women and children. although sectarian and tribal divisions are factors in this and other horrific massacres, we have to look deeper for the real causes. past colonial interference and brutal conquest in africa, often exploiting communal and tribal divisions, have left a lasting legacy. the bbc’s news analysis recently declared that, although the violence is between muslim and christian, analysts say underlying causes are political and economic, referring to the dire poverty of the masses of the nigerian people and the outright corruption of the ruling elites. nigeria is one of the most gifted countries on earth in terms of natural and mineral resources, including oil. unfortunately the corrupt local elites and foreign multinationals, including shell oil, take the lion’s share of this wealth, leaving a huge swathe of the nigerian people living in abject poverty. i stand with my colleagues form the democratic socialist movement in nigeria who demand that the wealth of nigeria is taken into public ownership and democratic control of the majority of the population, workers and poor. on the basis of this wealth it is entirely possible to build a decent life for all the people of nigeria and on that basis also overcome the communal divisions. the alternative is indeed a break-up of nigeria and further barbaric horrors inflicted on the people.
mr president, i should just like to say that i fully support this report, which is about animal welfare. however, i have some reservations about how this parliament and the eu legislate on this matter. i would prefer that we had a science-based approach to animal welfare rather than one driven by emotion. we have brought in legislation which, in many cases, is not scientifically based, and we are placing european producers, european farmers, at a huge disadvantage. can i add my distress and disgust at the fact that this week the commission has decided to reopen talks with the mercosur countries. by that decision they are placing at risk the future of europe’s farmers, specifically beef, poultry-meat and pig producers. i would ask the commission whether it is going to apply the same animal-welfare standards and production standards to imported products from third countries as it enforces within the european union. if they do not, we are a disgrace.
mr president, lest i forget, i do have a visitors’ group in the gallery, and i would like to welcome them from the ireland-east constituency. i think it is very important that our visitors and citizens see how this parliament works and, as you can see, they are awake and interested this morning! on this particular report, the le foll report, this chamber hosted one of the beatles recently telling us that we should eat less meat. well, i think that what we need to do in relation to agriculture and climate change is to use the best available technologies to reduce the emissions which come from agriculture, because we all know that we need to produce more food globally rather than less. we will need to do that with fewer resources, less soil, less water and with the pressures of climate change, and what we need is the best possible research; i believe it needs to be publicly funded and with private partnerships, so that our farmers and food industry can produce food in a climate-friendly way.
mr president, i hope everybody in the visitors’ gallery is impressed! i have to say it is unusual for us to get so much speaking time but these reports are of particular concern to me in the agriculture and food production area. this report is about how we manage to keep farmers in areas where land and conditions are extremely difficult because we know that farmers are the best managers of the landscape, but they do need money to survive in these areas. the concern i would have is that the eight biophysical criteria proposed by the commission might be too restrictive when they are adopted. we need to take account of different soil conditions across the european union. in my own member state, ireland, there are concerns that, if we apply these criteria in the atlantic region, there could be problems for farmers who live in that area. i want to ask the commission to take into account these concerns when they prepare their legislative text. the commission has said that farmers manage the landscape better and more cheaply than any other option we have, so let us make sure they are allowed to survive in these regions.
mr president, thank you for the endorsement. i should say to our visitors that we normally ask for silence but i think we are being lenient today, and i thank mr higgins for giving me the opportunity to speak. i have spoken about this already and i feel that this parliament did not realise yesterday, in the salafranca sánchez-neyra report, the implications of supporting that, which i did not do. i am most concerned about the decision to reopen bilateral talks with the mercosur countries on two different levels. first of all, it is in advance of the potential reopening of world trade talks, and the bilateral deal may be worse than that at wto level. but secondly – and they are linked – there are real concerns about the selling-out on agriculture in the european union. these are not just my own concerns driven from an emotional basis: the commission itself has said that there are severe implications for european agriculture if we do a deal in these talks with mercosur. again, the beef sector, the poultry sector and the pigmeat sector will be most affected. i could not support this report on that basis, and i warn colleagues about its implications.
mr president, may i ask you why so many members are allowed to speak loudly and rudely in private conversations when other members are trying to express themselves? (applause)i abstained on the resolution on kyrgyzstan. five years ago the people of kyrgyzstan mobilised for the tulip revolution against the corrupt regime and for a better life for themselves. the bakiyev government that came to power unfortunately dismally betrayed the hopes of a better life for the masses, instituting a corrupt and authoritarian regime. the new government is made up, unfortunately, of cronies of bakiyev and has no credence in terms of a new life for the people of the region. i support my fellow socialists from the committee for workers international in the region who call for elections to a new parliament but make clear that nothing will change unless workers and the rural masses have their own candidates and independent working class party to reverse the disastrous privatisations of the last 20 years, to tackle neoliberal capitalism and to institute real democratic change and new institutions controlled by working people and with genuine planning of the economy and a socialist federation of central asia.
mr president, i think it is appalling that a country with such massive oil reserves as nigeria should be involved in such mass atrocities, but at the same time, taking our cue from the vice president of the united states, the solution has to be in dialogue, dialogue, dialogue, allied with education, education, education, so that peace can be brought to the country. i appreciated joe biden referring to the line by the irish poet william butler yeats: ‘a terrible beauty is born’. we hope that terrible beauty may be turned into a wonderful beauty in nigeria, where peace and prosperity will prevail. the european union has an important role to play in that – and, indeed, in the discussion today – and in the vote we have set out a marker. i appreciate that very much.
i scríbhinn. − tá sé tugtha ar aird ag pat the cope ó gallchóir fpe agus liam aylward fpe gurb iad éire agus málta amháin a úsáideann córas na hionadaíochta cionúire le feisirí pharlaimint na heorpa a thoghadh. úsáideann tuaisceart éireann córas na hionadaíochta cionúire chomh maith, le linn toghcháin eorpacha. táimid glan i gcoinne córais toghcháin aonfhoirmeacha nó chomhionanna a chur i bhfeidhm le feisirí pharlaimint na heorpa a thoghadh. ó bunaíodh stát na héireann, tá sé léirithe gur córas cóir agus cothrom é córas na hionadaíochta cionúire.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution which welcomes the commission white paper on an eu strategy for climate change adaptation and proposes a range of measures across several policy fields. even if we succeed in keeping global warming at safe levels, climate change entails unavoidable consequences which require adaptation efforts. climate-proofing and adaptation need to be mainstreamed across policy areas, especially those concerning water, soil, agriculture and fisheries, and coastal areas. biodiversity is at risk, but there is also a need to ensure that urban, transport and infrastructure planning does take climate change into account. civil protection structures have to prioritise preparedness for floods and droughts. it is important to keep the social and public health implications of this challenge in mind. it may gravely impact on respiratory health and increase the incidence of vector-borne diseases. deprived communities, poor children and elderly people are amongst the most vulnerable to climate change health risks. revenue generated by the emissions trading scheme must contribute to the adaptation effort and the eu budget needs to reflect the urgency of coping with such challenges.
a uachtaráin, fáiltím roimh an tuarascáil seo agus go háirithe na pointí agus na moltaí iontacha atá déanta ag mo chomhghleacaithe. gan dabht ar bith, tá sé soiléir go bhfuil na foirgnimh agus na tithe príobháideacha atá ann anois, go mbeidh an chuid is mó acu ann, ní amháin i 2020 ach i 2050. dá bhrí sin ba chóir dúinn díriú ar na foirgnimh agus na tithe sin láithreach bonn. i mo thír féin, tá a lán daoine atá dífhostaithe anois ag tógáil tithe agus mar sin de. ach tá na mílte agus na mílte teach folamh agus gan aon duine ina gcónaí iontu. dá bhrí sin níl aon ghá le tithe nua a thógáil. mar sin, mar a deir mo chomhgleacaithe, ba chóir dúinn díriú ar na tithe atá ann anois. aontaím leis an gcoimisinéir, ba cheart do na rialtais úsáid a bhaint as na cistí struchtúracha, agus mar sin de, chun déileáil leis an obair seo láithreach. tá sé thar a bheith tábhachtach agus molaim, leis, an plean sin a chur i bhfeidhm.
mr president, firstly i want to congratulate the rapporteur and shadow rapporteurs, who displayed a positive and pro-consumer attitude to this subject at all stages of the committee. i feel the work is again a demonstration of the ability of this house to be among the most flexible and consensus-building institutions of the european union. this is maybe the second or, possibly, third issue i have seen since joining the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, whereby this house can be more progressive than the council and i welcome more examples of this coming to fruition in the future. as for the issue itself, attempting to harmonise rules when it comes to textile labelling and designating names is a very positive example of how the internal market can help the consumer and the manufacturer. this proposal is equally important for both the industry and the consumers. it is important to remember this, and sometimes i think the consumer side is not getting as much attention as is necessary. this proposal started off as mainly technical and non-political and was just a means to bring three directives together. however, considering that we rarely revisit these types of issues as a house, it makes sense that we try and make any proposals on this as comprehensive as possible. consumers are entitled to accurate, relevant, understandable and comparable information on the composition of textile products. they are also entitled to a complete – and i mean complete – list of the fibres that are in products; this is necessary in the prevention of allergies etc. i personally feel it is very important that there is transparency in production methods and conditions and that there is accurate evidence of place of origin. this will allow social decisions on purchasing choices to be made. i believe this is becoming increasingly necessary in the world we live in, given child and slave labour etc. this is why i support many of the commission’s ideas but also support the calls for a more general scheme for the labelling of textile products. we should view this as an opportunity to have the best legislation which will deepen and enhance the internal market.
mr president, much of this debate on textiles is echoed in debates we have about food, the origins of food and how we label food. it is interesting that a pizza produced, for example, in ireland could contain ingredients that come from 60 different countries. it is very complex to get our labelling correct. one of the issues which has been mentioned is consumer concerns about how things are produced, about workers’ welfare and environmental standards. i watched a very disturbing report on cnn about the state of the pearl river in china. the denim capital of europe is on the banks of that river, which is highly polluted because they export their cheap products to the eu, the us and other markets – and consumers buy them. so, although we say consumers want information to make informed choices, many consumers seem to ignore the information that they have and make choices based on price. i do think we need to talk more about sustainable production and sustainable consumption across all of our lines – food and indeed textiles.
mr president, i think it is good that we have a discussion on a topic which affects every citizen, because almost every citizen becomes a consumer and a purchaser of textile products. the labelling is also very important. i remember being bemused several times in my own country years ago to pick up a product and see written on it ‘deantús na héireann’ – ‘produce of ireland’, then you could peel off the label and underneath it was ‘made in china’; in other words, consumers had been conned. now we have come a long way since then, but we need to go further. the points made particularly by lara comi regarding products from third countries are very important. we have been far too stringent regarding our own countries, and not so with third countries. this also refers to the agricultural sector, and the upcoming mercosur proposals, in particular, bear that out. so i welcome that. finally, the suggestion about having the same sizes right across the european union is a very good one. it will make it much easier for people to purchase and also create a sense of european union without creating the superstate that the good earl is somewhat concerned about.
mr president, i think, in finding reasons for the economic recession we find ourselves in, the finger is pointed – and rightly so – at bankers, builders, regulators, speculators etc. i think, however, the area of public procurement has led to a lot of the problems as well, where there was an element of ‘jobs for the boys’, lack of transparency and lack of integrity. the contracts went inevitably to the same people all the time, who of course time and time again went over time and over budget but were never penalised. i welcome these new developments that will allow us to have the greatest possible transparency in the process. however, we also need to ensure that those who are sitting in judgement on these contracts have the greatest expertise and the greatest independence and are not appointees of the parties in power. finally i want to say that simplification is, of course, vital, because there is no point in having too much time and too much money taken up in a very important but, after all, a preliminary exercise.
mr president, i hate to strike a note of discontent about the report at this early stage in the debate, but i should like to refer in particular to recital i and paragraphs 44 and 45. there is much that i welcome in this report, but i believe that the content of those paragraphs is partly based on a historical view of agriculture policy and certainly not based on the real situation on the ground at the moment. before i deal in detail with that in the moments i have, let me just say that paragraph 15 is a very key paragraph in the report and perhaps should have been dealt with in more detail. it states that only four per cent of overseas development aid is dedicated to agriculture. that is quite a shocking figure and it is a figure that i mentioned in a report i drew up in the previous mandate of this parliament. i think there is, perhaps unfortunately, an attack on european farmers in this report. i do not think that is appropriate. i will certainly not be supporting this report on that basis, and i regret that situation. i would urge colleagues to note those paragraphs carefully.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission, and in particular commissioner piebalgs, whom i am replacing, congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent and comprehensive motion for a resolution on policy coherence for development. the commission fully shares the view that this ambitious task is important and fully endorses the various proposals in the resolution to strengthen the european parliament's work in this area. this resolution comes at the right time. as you know, the commission has proposed a 12-point action plan to support the millennium development goals. policy coherence for development is one of the priorities of this plan, which is currently being discussed in the council. the major areas of concern in parliament's draft resolutions largely coincide with the priorities identified in the commission's forward-looking work programmes on policy coherence for development, even if we do not share every one of the assessments contained in the resolution. these two documents provide the european union institutions with a solid basis for moving forward and working towards the greatest possible consistency of the union's policies with development objectives. policy coherence is not just about identifying the potential negative impact of union policies on development objectives. it is also a matter of joining forces with our partners to find win-win solutions to reorient the union's policies towards development objectives. this is why the commission has adopted a new and strengthened approach to policy coherence for development. this approach links all eu policies in this area to five international challenges. it does not restrict the scope of our efforts. it links policy evaluation with concrete policy objectives. in addition, the work programme is based on objectives and indicators and impact assessment mechanisms will be implemented more frequently to assess policy coherence. the commission's position on official development assistance is very clear. the european union and the member states must respect their commitments in this area. to this end, the commission has proposed the establishment of an accountability mechanism within the union. this proposal is currently being examined by the member states. at the same time, other public financial resources, other than official development assistance, will be provided to developing countries, in particular to help them combat climate change. we must therefore try to find a way of tracking them and ensuring that they serve development. to strengthen the coherence of our policies, we must involve our partners. the cotonou agreement, in article 12, provides for a means of communication, a forum for the acp countries to express their concerns regarding the policies of the european union. this possibility should be used much more systematically. we will also strengthen our policy coherence dialogue for development in other international fora such as the ongoing asia-europe conference on development and the un high-level plenary meeting on the mdg review in september. one last thing. if we look at the different policy areas involved - trade, agriculture, fisheries and others - it is clear that only a joint and cooperative effort by all the major economic powers, and not just the european union, will be conducive to the creation of a development-friendly environment. policy coherence for development must be and remains a high priority at european and international level.
in writing. – i support this resolution on policy coherence for development. as the lisbon treaty clearly states, the european union has to take account of development cooperation objectives when implementing policies that might impact developing countries. at a time when multiple crises seriously threaten the achievement of the millennium development goals, it is all the more important to ensure that our development policies are not undermined by action in other policy fields. while the eradication of poverty is the primary development policy objective of the eu, many policy initiatives undercut this purpose. eu agricultural export subsidies gravely undermine food security elsewhere, and we have yet to assess the ecological and social impact of our fisheries agreements with developing countries. policy coherence for development cannot be sidelined when negotiating bilateral and regional trade agreements, and has a key role to play if we are to ensure that the outcome of the doha round is not detrimental to development. european investment bank external lending to developing countries must be focused on investments which contribute to eradicating poverty, and has to turn away from tax haven-based companies. human rights, labour and environmental standards and tax governance must guide eu negotiations with developing countries.
mr president, i welcome proposals to help the outermost regions. firstly, agriculture is primarily an industry that puts food on the table – without which we all would die – but also these regions without agriculture would die as well, both economically and by probably becoming denuded of people. so i welcome any proposals to help them. i also want to add my voice to those who expressed concern about the mercosur proposals. these could do enormous damage to the outermost regions, and indeed every region. i think that it is time that the european union got stronger and fairer with its own farmers. we were never meant to be the policeman for the farmers within the union and the fairy godmother for the farmers in the rest of the world. that is what is happening here: there would be less stringent rules, less transparency and less accountability for food coming into the european union than for food that is produced within it, and that would be unfair to the outermost regions and to all regions.
madam president, i support this report because it addresses the issue of diversity and our agricultural policy between the regions. however, i want to comment on the winding-up remarks made by commissioner cioloş. he responded to concerns expressed on the reopening of talks with the mercosur countries and, while his words brought some comfort to those who listened – because he said he would ensure that the interests of eu farming and the eu farm model would be safeguarded – i am afraid i was not reassured. it is very clear from the commission’s own papers that european union beef producers, poultry-meat producers and pigmeat farmers will be adversely affected if a deal is done. we are having this reopening of talks at a time when we are reforming agricultural policy. the budget is under threat. we may not have a sufficient budget and yet we are facing further disruption of farm prices and incomes. it does not make sense, and i hope the commissioner hears these views.
madam president, i think when we introduced decoupling few of us realised the implications of making cross compliance part of the package with farmers now needing to comply with, i think it is over 17 different directives. perhaps we should ask ourselves in this house how well we legislate for simplification. however, there is one particular area that i want to comment on, and that is the area of inspections. we have the overarching inspection for cross compliance by competent authorities, but farmers are increasingly facing other levels and layers of inspections from processors, from retailers, from all sorts of groups; we need a little bit of coordination and not duplication of inspections. they do not add any value or any degree of safety or security to the final product, but they add a huge amount of bureaucracy and frustration for the producers who are required to meet and greet all of these inspectors. i welcome this report.
madam president, i think it is refreshing to have a report coming before parliament today starting with the word ‘simplification’. of course that in itself should not be necessary but it suggests that until now it has been too complicated. anything involving an educational approach to a particular topic should involve simplification rather than complication. we have had too much complication up until now, as anybody who has attended farmers’ meetings will know. farmers are driven absolutely berserk by the amount of forms they have to fill in and the overbearing inspectorate they have to endure. so i welcome this proposal. of course it also has to be said that what you do with forms is not actually going to decide how you farm your land. it is the way the farmers treat their animals and the way they farm their land that is going to give us the traceability, accountability and food security and quality that we need. so this is a step in the right direction. i hope we see many of them and in due course eliminate the need for the word ‘simplification’ to be introduced, because it should be there automatically.
madam president, i also wanted to speak on energy efficiency but apparently the rule is that, if there are no amendments, no oral explanation may be made, so i will put in a written one. on the keller report i want to be very clear that i reject it on the basis of paragraphs 44 and 45 and recital i. i regard paragraph 44 as deeply disturbing. also, where does this parliament sit? last year and the year before we pressed the commission to take action to assist dairy farmers across the european union who were in a dire situation. the commission responded with export refunds as an emergency measure. the only people who complained to me about it were from new zealand, which is not a developing country. i think that to put these paragraphs into this otherwise good report does a disservice to this parliament and to our producers across the european union, who are struggling. we are reducing production in europe. that has a consequence for the developing world. we need to heed it.
madam president, i just want to say that i agree with my colleague ms mcguinness. we had difficulties with some of the proposals here and for that reason we did not go with the epp line, which we would normally like to do. i think ms mcguinness has explained why. i fully understand and also concur with what she said, so i hope that the epp will understand as well.
in writing. − i voted in favour because, though the eu strategy for youth is by its nature a wide-ranging and all-encompassing document, it is crucial to reassert that any new strategy must place education at the centre of its ambition and policy. in the past such an education policy would have correctly placed its emphasis on the need for all students in the eu to complete primary and second-level education. thankfully, we have now come to the point where we can afford to cast our attention towards more ambitious goals. in the past two decades or so many initiatives have been trialled which have been aimed at getting those from demographic groups traditionally disinclined towards university to attend third-level institutions. some of these initiatives have been more successful than others, but in general it remains the same social groups who make up the overwhelming majority of third-level students. this cannot be allowed to continue. if we are to truly address the poverty which remains but often goes unremarked in the eu, an effective system by which less-inclined areas of society start to become truly represented at third level must be achieved.
i scríbhinn. − ní foláir an t-ualach riaracháin atá ar fheirmeoirí a laghdú agus ní mór an rómhaorlathas atá i gceist go minic le cúrsaí talmhaíochta a ghearradh siar. ba chóir go mbeidh feirmeoirí in ann díriú ar an gcúram is mó atá orthu: táirgí atá ar ardchaighdeán a chur ar fáil. vótáil mé i bhfabhar fhorálacha na tuarascála seo maidir le deireadh a chur leis an dúbailt atá ann faoi láthair agus iad siúd maidir le solúbthacht a fheabhsú. aontaím chomh maith leis an méid atá ráite sa tuarascáil maidir le reachtaíocht na hearnála seo; is é sin le rá go mba chóir go mbeidh an reachtaíocht seo i gcomhréir leis an gcuspóir agus ní cóir reachtaíocht ar bith a thabhairt isteach go dtí go ndéantar measúnacht ar tionchar na reachtaíochta ó thaobh ualach airgeadais féideartha de. ní foláir gearradh siar ar rómhaorlathas má tá earnáil talmhaíochta éifeachtach agus iomaíoch le baint amach san eoraip.
in writing. − i fully agree that the simplification of the cap should not result in less support for farmers and should not lead to the dismantling of traditional market management instruments. furthermore, i agree with a deferral on the obligation of electronic sheep tagging.
in writing. – i welcome the new legislation to regulate quality and safety standards of organ donation in the eu. in particular the introduction of practical measures to help ensure that live saving organs are not wasted, such as the creation of a pan european organ database. the new law will save many lives and optimise the organs donated by allowing member states to share organs. before this legislation if there was no suitable recipient in a particular member state the organ went unused now the organ can be given to one of the 56,000 eu citizens awaiting transplants. this regulation constitutes an important framework which needs to be developed upon by the respective member states. with reference to ireland, we need an independent body to monitor the transplantation and harvesting of donated organs. at present ireland and malta are the only two countries in eu without a national transplant authority to maximise organ usage. in order to eliminate transplant patient waiting list, one of the primary aims of the resolution, we need to raise the profile of organ donation among eu citizens - in ireland this could be done by the introduction of a government supported awareness programme.
member of the commission. - madam member, to answer your question very clearly, we do not intend to change the list of exceptions in the 2001 directive at this stage. we have taken what i believe to be a pragmatic, progressive approach with the three initiatives i have mentioned on collective management, orphan works and the green paper, and it is in this context that we will deal with the concerns you have expressed. but we have no intention of changing the list of exceptions.
member of the commission. − i have been asked by mr almunia to answer this question. in order to ensure continuity of the regional development effort, the commission decided in 2006 that the list of regions designated by member states as part of the regional aid maps should apply through the whole period 2007 to 2013. however, the commission recognised in its guidelines for national regional aid that situations might arise where adjustments are necessary and, in accordance with point 104 of the guidelines, member states were therefore offered the possibility to proceed to a mid-term review of the regional aid maps regarding regions designated under article 107(3)(c) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. three out of seventeen member states concerned by the mid-term review have decided to use this possibility. under the mid-term review, member states can replace up to half of the regions at present eligible for regional aid by newly designated regions. under certain conditions, it is also possible to increase the aid intensities for regions already designated under the original regional aid map. as part of the mid-term review, the eligibility of the newly designated regions, and of the possible increases in aid intensities, is assessed on the basis of the average of the most recent years of the eurostat data as regards gross domestic product per capita and unemployment at the relevant nuts level 3 region. this helps to ensure regional investment aid is targeted towards the economic development of regions which are disadvantaged in relation to the national average. the fact that only three of the member states concerned by the mid-term review have decided to notify amendments to the regional aid maps seems to suggest that the majority of the member states consider that the economic crisis has not substantially affected the set of regions in need of development aid.
author. − thank you very much for your reply. i find it amazing that only three states have actually applied. it is unbelievable. i come from a region where we have lost thousands of jobs: dell – 3 000 jobs; and, just today, 800 jobs have been lost through the pharmaceutical company pfizer, 300 of them in my area, which is the south of ireland, and that has a gross grant equivalent of zero per cent. our government has reapplied, and i am hoping that that will change, because, if it does not, it ensures that the government cannot apply really active measures from a state point of view to bring in larger companies. that to me is very regressive and needs to change. so i will actively look for the commission to pursue a different strategy, because i believe that the state aid map is out of date.
i thank the commissioner for her reply. i wrote parliament’s report on the european central bank last year and one of the issues i raised was the significant increase in eur 500 notes, and i think the eur 200 notes as well, but significantly eur 500 notes. i raised the possibility that these were being used for money laundering purposes, for criminal purposes. i understand now from the united kingdom that there are real concerns about this. could i invite the commissioner to take up with the european central bank the concerns i have raised to see who it is who is using such large quantities of eur 500 notes? i have to say there has to be a reasonable suspicion of tax evasion or perhaps other criminal activity.
member of the commission. − the fight against terrorism is of course one crucial element in the policy of the european union. the main actions are being taken by national services, police authorities and national politicians. the european union can support these initiatives, we can provide a certain legal framework and we can make sure that the charter of fundamental rights is respected. we have some funding, we can provide support for victims and we can encourage further cooperation. my feeling is that there is a lot of cooperation going on between the member states on this. of course there is still the very sensitive issue of sharing intelligence. this is based on trust – or lack of trust sometimes. this has to be developed and it can only be done by harmonising and making sure that our european union systems fully respect the rule of law and that they are trustworthy. this is an area where the european union can help. in the stockholm programme and in the discussions leading to that, there was a clear willingness for member states to strengthen cooperation – with each other, within the european union but also with third countries – in order to fight terrorism. this of course always has to be done with full respect for fundamental rights, and the cia rendition programme is not part of this.
mr president, with your new liberal hat on, could i ask you to clarify what questions will actually be taken? will question 33, in part 3, be taken? we are all trying to attend several meetings. if you could clarify exactly the ones that will not be taken, it would be helpful.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i have been speaking in my new capacity for two years now. small and mediumsized enterprises remain a priority for the new commission, which is convinced that every effort must be made to prevent the financial crisis from turning into a social crisis that primarily affects small and mediumsized enterprises and their employees. since the small business act was passed in 2008, there has been real progress. the commission adopted the five legislative proposals related to the small business act, two of which have already entered into force: the state aid exemption regulation and the directive on reduced vat rates; the other three, the late payment directive, the vat invoicing directive and the regulation on the statute for a european private company are still being discussed here in parliament and in the council. the commission has also started the non-legislative actions planned, and today the impact studies systematically introduce a 'small and medium-sized enterprises' test to improve the quality of legislation. let me give you an example. the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the directive on late payment, exempting micro-enterprises from certain accounting obligations. member states have also shown a strong political will to implement the small business act: for example, they integrated the sme test into national decision-making processes, and smes were among the main beneficiaries of the measures taken by member states under the european recovery plan to deal with the crisis. for example, the creation and extension of loan and guarantee schemes to small and medium-sized enterprises were among the measures taken to improve access to finance. however, the methods used and the results obtained differ from one state to another and it is therefore necessary to continue working on the implementation of the small business act at national level. i therefore believe it is essential to continue the work already undertaken and to ensure that the principles and actions recommended are implemented at both european and national level. the policy in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises is also fully reflected in the europe 2020 strategy, forms an integral part of many of the flagship initiatives envisaged and will be the subject of particular scrutiny when the strategy is implemented in the member states. one of the ten integrated guidelines proposed by the commission calls on member states to implement a series of measures to help small and mediumsized enterprises in accordance with the principles of the small business act. the next step will be to ensure that member states integrate these measures into their national reform programmes. a thorough review of the implementation of the act will be carried out by the end of this year to measure progress made and identify new actions that also take into account the priorities of europe 2020. key areas of action will include improving access to credit and innovation, encouraging entrepreneurship and promoting the internationalisation of small and medium-sized enterprises. small and medium-sized enterprises, especially those run by young entrepreneurs, will be among the main beneficiaries of these new initiatives. aware of the difficulties that smes currently face in accessing finance, the european commission has been closely following developments in the sector, in particular by working with the european central bank to carry out regular surveys of the situation. the commission has also developed a number of programmes offering financial support to help small and medium-sized enterprises access the capital they need to develop their activities. the competitiveness and innovation framework programme, for example, brings together a number of financial instruments developed in conjunction with the european investment fund, which encourage risk and loan guarantee operations for enterprises. the erdf-funded jeremie programme offers a wide range of specific financial products to develop and strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises throughout europe. finally, the new european microfinance facility, a joint initiative of the commission and the eib, is particularly designed for microenterprises which have difficulty obtaining ad hoc financing. access to credit for smes has also been improved by increasing the amount of credit lines granted by the european investment bank to intermediary banks which are in turn responsible for reallocating them to smes in the form of loans. in 2009, the european investment bank granted a total of eur 13 billion to financial institutions. this is an increase of 55% over the previous year. for information, more than 75% of the eur 21 billion granted in the period 2008-2009 went to the final target smes, i.e. 50 000 smes across the union. finally, the commission organized a high-level conference a few days ago bringing together banks, venture capital funds and small and mediumsized enterprises, a meeting also attended by representatives of the european parliament, which allowed the current market situation to be examined and new ideas and strategies to be explored to improve access to finance for small and mediumsized enterprises. it was an important opportunity to discuss possible actions to be taken in favour of enterprises in order to support economic recovery and growth. one of the measures decided upon is the establishment of a permanent discussion forum involving financial institutions, venture capital funds and representatives of small and mediumsized enterprises. quarterly meetings are held under the auspices of the european commission. the conclusions of this forum will be the first step in a strategy to establish an action plan for access to credit and capital for small and mediumsized enterprises in our union. finally, i take this opportunity to inform parliament that the first european week of small and mediumsized enterprises will be accompanied by more than 1 200 national, regional and local events covering a wide range of topics of particular interest to this sector of business. the sme week will take place from 25 may to 1 june, in parallel with the 2010 european entrepreneurship awards ceremony scheduled for 31 may in madrid. all this to confirm my personal commitment to ensuring that employment in our union, thanks to the support that small and mediumsized enterprises will have, can be defended because the necessary restructuring of large private industry will cause the loss of some jobs and we can only rebuild employment by encouraging the development of small and mediumsized enterprises which are the backbone of our european economy.
author. − i want to congratulate the commissioner on progress achieved. however, commissioner, you talked about one of the major problems as being access to capital, and you mentioned the european investment bank. it has distributed funds to irish banks to distribute on to smes. however, a considerable amount is not being distributed, mainly because of the mismatch between the needs of smes – refinancing of some sort – and the european investment bank objective, which is money for medium-term investment. so i want to ask you if you agree that some measures need to be put in place for smes which will require refinancing, and what role the commission could play. furthermore, would you favour some kind of enterprise guarantee scheme, similar to what is in the uk?
údar. − a uachtaráin, aontaím go hiomlán leis an méid atá ráite ag an gcoimisiún go bhfuil smeanna an-tábhachtach, ní amháin mar gheall ar an méid jabanna a chruthaíonn siad ach chomh maith leis sin go bhfuil siad níos seasmhaí ná na comhlachtaí móra a thagann isteach agus nach bhfuil dílseacht ar bith acu don réigiún ná don tír. aontaím go hiomlán leis an méid atá ráite ag mo chomhghleacaí, marian harkin, gur easpa airgeadais an bac is mó atá ann, agus rinne an coimisiún tagairt dó seo. chomh maith leis sin, tá an iomarca maorlathais nó ‘red tape’ ann.
author. − i want to ask the commissioner if he will look at the non-direct financing aspects of the problems that smes are encountering. for example, i do not know what it is like in your country, but in my country there is no such thing as a bank manager any more. we are giving money to banks, but banks do not assess people on their track record, on their character and on the knowledge of their business. we got into the mess we are in because people were on automatic. to some extent they are still on automatic. how do you win an election? one vote at a time. if we can get one job in every sme in europe, we will end the unemployment crisis. i ask you please to consult with the european central bank and european investment bank and try to bring your influence to bear to get us back to traditional bank managers who engage with smes and help them to develop their businesses. it will return a dividend.
the obvious question is, does the commission actually believe that sme week can deliver on its aims? can i ask the commission what action can be taken to ensure that the european union and member states create an environment in which entrepreneurs and family businesses can survive, develop and thrive and entrepreneurship is rewarded, not hindered, which is often the case in the present economic climate?
madam president, i participate in this debate as the employment committee rapporteur on the future of social services of general interest. this oral question seeks to establish from the commission what proposals it has to address a serious problem in relation to the delivery of social housing for citizens. i regret that the commissioner did not indicate any such proposals rather than seek to justify the existing system. there is a persistent refusal by the commission to come to terms with the need to create legal clarity and flexibility for member sates with regard not only to the delivery of existing public services – and particularly social services – but also to meeting new social needs. we must be able not only to provide citizens with a safety net in times of need, but also to provide a robust social framework which serves all citizens. health, housing and education are services which should obviously be provided on a universal basis and not simply at the whim of the market. that the market is incapable of delivering universality on the basis of equality and equal quality in these areas is self-evident. these are all services which reach beyond the profit motive and deliver social value, which cannot be accounted for by a profit-and-loss balance sheet. they are also, as it happens, needed to create a solid basis for a modern economy. the present legal inadequacy with regard to what governments at both national and local level may do in the delivery of services identified as essential to the well-being of society cannot be allowed to continue much longer.
madam president, firstly, i would like to thank the commissioner for clarifying some of the points which were raised in the questions. it has to be said that the provision of a house is an absolute necessity for everybody, particularly in the modern welfare state. having a roof over your head is absolutely vital; it is a right and is something which everyone would agree that should be provided either through one’s own means or through the means of government agencies etc. having said that, there is a debate to be had on how much interference the government of any particular country should have in the provision of housing. in my own country, the property bubble was created by tax incentives – which were too generous and not well thought out – for builders to build houses and providing them with the planning permission – sometimes even in flood plains, which have since been flooded – and rezoning land which should not have been rezoned. then of course the banks chipped in by giving generous loans to builders which they could not pay back and to individuals to purchase houses which they could not pay back. we therefore have the crisis we have at the moment. so there are a lot of questions there on how involved the state should be in the whole property development area. however in the provision of social housing, i think firstly basing it on income is just too prescriptive and does not make any sense for the reasons given by many people. there is definitely a role, i think, for the commission in the broader sense, perhaps in giving guidelines on the provision of social housing, but to be too prescriptive in regard to such things as income etc. does not make sense; it will not work and it should not be attempted.
a uachtaráin, is maith an rud é go bhfuil an cheist thábhachtach seo á plé againn, ach n’fheadar ag deireadh na dála cén toradh a bheidh ar ár gcuid cainte nó cén tionchar a bheidh againn ar na comhlachtaí móra – na comhlachtaí ola gur leo na toibreacha ola a rinne an damáiste agus an tubaiste seo. ag an am céanna, tá moladh ag dul don choimisiún as ucht na moltaí atá acu chun rudaí a chur i bhfeidhm anseo i dtreo agus nach dtarlóidh a leithéid inár limistéar féin. ach má tá ceacht amháin le foghlaim as an tubaiste seo, is é sin go bhfuil gá agus géarghá dúinn foinsí eile a sholáthar chun fuinneamh a úsáid inár limistéar féin, go háirithe fuinneamh nádúrtha cosúil leis an ngaoth agus leis an ngrian. a luaithe a dhéanaimid sin is fearr dúinn uile é. mura n-éiríonn linn é sin a dhéanamh, beidh na comhlachtaí ola ag dul níos faide amach san aigéan ag lorg ola agus tarlóidh damáiste agus tubaistí mar seo, ní amháin uair amháin eile ach arís agus arís eile. ní ceart dúinn ligint dó sin tarlú.
madam president, my particular perspective in this debate is on the impact on the more peripheral airports and on airlines which are already in economic difficulties. i live on an island which is behind an island which is off the coast of europe. as such, our peripheral airports and our airlines are particularly important for connectivity and mobility. there are a number of regional airports on the west coast of ireland. we have donegal, sligo, ireland west airport knock, shannon and kerry. given our proximity to iceland and our island status, we have particularly severe problems to deal with because of the ash. with reference to peripheral airports, i believe the commission should fully promote international pso routes in terms of connectivity of peripheral airports to hubs and that member states should be given real flexibility when it comes to state aid to peripheral airports. furthermore, there are many airlines already in financial trouble and they may go out of business because of this crisis. let us not fool ourselves. it is not going to go away any time soon. this will lead to job losses in the airline sector and consequently less competition in the market. we have to look very seriously at how the eu can play a constructive role, both from the perspective of an equitable distribution of financial assistance and the crisis management tools that are at our disposal. finally, it is important to realise that current legislation was put in place to stop airlines cancelling flights because it suited them, but we are now in a position where airspace is closed and airlines cannot fly. the financial burdens are very significant on all actors – passengers, airlines and airports. the question is, who is responsible, and who bears the financial burdens?
madam president, as ireland does not have a land connection to mainland europe, irish air passengers have faced extreme difficulties, i would venture to say more than any other member state. for example, i myself travelled to strasbourg this week overland, and had to take a ferry to wales, a car to folkestone and a train to strasbourg. i raise this because it is typical of the many journeys undertaken by irish people in recent weeks. the eu transport ministers have established three separate flying zones based on the safety risk to aircraft. i have to say that, since the introduction of the third zone, over 300 000 hours of airline operations have taken place. this is a welcome development and of course further measures are still needed. i strongly support the efforts to fast-track the introduction of the single european sky concept. the declaration of madrid, adopted in february by the spanish presidency, established a roadmap for putting this policy in place. i have no doubt that the commissioner, who is with us this evening, will spearhead this. the role of eurocontrol must also be closely examined. it must be given statutory powers as opposed to the coordinating role which it currently holds. as early as yesterday, a joint agreement was reached between ireland and the uk so as to curtail the disruption of air travel: a welcome development. ní aithníonn luaithreamhán bolcánach aon teorainneacha polaitiúla nó fisiciúla agus chuir an eachtra seo ollchumhacht an nádúir i gcuimhne dúinn an athuair. is léir anois go bhfuil géarghá le comhbheartas aeriompair in aerspás an aontais eorpaigh. ní foláir ról an aontais eorpaigh a láidriú i ndiaidh na géarchéime seo.
madam president, the joxer character created by the great irish playwright, sean o’casey, observed the whole world as ‘in a state of chassis’. and certainly the evidence is there for all to see. if we look downwards, we see oil gushing from an oil well, decimating the environment; if we look upwards we will see volcanic ash gushing from a volcano decimating the airlines, and if we look outwards we see recession gushing from the banks decimating the economy. certainly i have suffered, like many more, from the volcanic ash, the first time going home: it took me two days; i had to hitchhike part of the way. the second time i could not get out to the last plenary; it took me one and a half days to go to brussels and one and a half days to come here, but the one thing i have learned is that it is impossible to book a ticket on the eurostar when you are travelling. you need your credit card to book it and you need it to get the ticket, which is impossible when you are in transit. i would ask the commission to use their influence to try and get them to have the same system as that which applies to ferries and airlines.
mr president, i take it as a given that sovereign states must be held to account for commitments made and be required to meet agreed objectives, so i start from there. but it is also time to look around and see what other actions are contributing to the recent turmoil. in the 1930s, the gold standard and protectionism contributed to a deepening of the recession. by contrast, within the european union we have had solidarity and the institutional capacity, via the european central bank and the commission, to learn from past mistakes. the work of the institutions has been impressive, given that there are 27 eu member states, including 16 euro members. furthermore, our institutions have cooperated with the us federal reserve, the bank of england, the japanese central bank and others. despite this, the markets – the so-called markets – have in effect moved to take a negative view of almost every step taken. now i am all for free markets; protectionism does not work. but are our markets free? the markets were well-massaged and influenced towards getting us into the crisis in the first place. is there not by now a reasonable suspicion that powerful interests have a capacity to take on sovereign states and win, and that some – for whatever objectives – are using this power to advance their own agenda, using the markets for their own ends? a political agenda could include concerns that the euro could in future replace the dollar as the pricing currency for oil, for example; a business and economic interest agenda could include simply amassing greater power and wealth by destroying sovereign rights, including shared sovereign rights, within the european union. it is time for political leaders to reflect on just what is happening. i repeat: member states must be disciplined, including the member state i come from. of course that must happen. but we are putting all the emphasis on member states and very little on what is behind some market activity. i would like to hear from the presidency of the council and from the commissioner. what is being done to police this? when we did not police these people in the past, look where they led us. so do not have just one prong on your fork: it is time to have two prongs.
mr president, i will abide by your rule. i welcome the spanish presidency’s comments about productive systems and a focus on competitiveness. i think we need a little bit more of that conversation in this parliament, in council and in the commission. in relation to your comments about the slow response, we need to look at that because there is the problem of a lethargy in the european system in terms of response. member states could have reacted more swiftly when the banking crisis hit. we are capable of doing it but we seem not to have done it in this particular instance. finally, the commission is looking for four pillars of a new strategy. i think the commission needs to examine its own role in this crisis. i believe that the monitoring of the rules of the growth and stability pact were on the basis of a ‘soft’ power approach which did not work. had we all, as others have said, abided by the rules, we would not have this problem. giving you more power will only work if you actually use the power you already have.
mr president, firstly, the last few weeks have seen us put measures in place to deal with a financial crisis that has already occurred – a financial crisis caused by a lack of regulation, a lack of supervision and a lack of governance. today’s measures see us trying to anticipate these situations so that they will not occur in the future, and they are to be welcomed. we all perform better when there is somebody looking over our shoulder. that applies to governments as well as to individuals. so i appreciate what has been done here today and i think that, from today on, we should also move on to dealing with the financial terrorists of the rating agencies and the speculators who are playing havoc with people’s lives and trying to bring down sovereign governments. by taking that twin approach – dealing with governance at political level and dealing with the financial terrorists – we might be able to look forward to a better future.
mr president, firstly i would like to compliment you for the manner in which you handled this difficult topic here today, for explaining with courtesy the presidency’s interpretation and for sticking to your guns. if you hadn’t done so, it would probably be the case that we would be still here. i’m not saying i agree with you, but i am not qualified enough to give an opinion so i took your opinion as gospel. secondly, i think the point made by mr salatto is valid, that we do need to have quicker and more accessible routes in and out of strasbourg for the benefit of members and others. also i would like to compliment the questors, including my own compatriot, jim higgins, and others who are working hard to get frankfurt-hahn designated the same as frankfurt airport and strasbourg, from the point of view of transportation. finally, i would like to say, regarding the accommodation charges here in strasbourg, it would be helpful if they were the same for the weeks that we are sitting in parliament as the weeks when we are not sitting. all this would make strasbourg more attractive because it is a beautiful city, i understand why we are here, and once we are here, we are very happy.
in writing. − i supported the manka report on the european parliament amending budget while conscious of the sensitivity of increasing budgets at a time when citizens are being asked to take pay cuts and jobs are being lost. the work in the european parliament has undoubtedly increased because of the treaty of lisbon. i intend to use the additional assistance allowance to provide opportunities to young students who are applying in large numbers to my office for work. this will provide them with remuneration for their work and valuable work experience, which i hope will assist them in their future careers. however, i believe that the parliament needs to review our entire working methods and staffing with a view to improving our effectiveness and efficiency.
in writing. − today parliament voted to block the authorisation of thrombin for use as a food additive. we do not yet know the implications of this decision, which is based on an emotional reaction to reconstituted meat and not on a scientific assessment of the actual enzyme. the commission outlined with clarity that efsa, the european food safety authority, has said there are no safety issued involved. the commission proposal would allow for the product to only be used in pre-packaged, clearly labelled combined meat products with the name of the enzyme, thrombin – a blood-derived product – in the list of ingredients. thrombin is currently in use. after today it will not be permitted. is is wise for this parliament to start telling people what to eat, rather than providing them with information of what they are eating? there is a difference.
in writing. − i support this report on the eu's accession to the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms (echr), as provided by the lisbon treaty. now, the union's institutions will fall within the scope of this fundamental rights protection system. eu accession to the echr improves the union's standing when calling on third countries to abide by its human rights standards and extends to people in the eu the same level of protection against union action that they enjoy with regard to member state action. despite the fact that the eu will not join the council of europe (coe), accession to the convention should entail the right to nominate candidates for the post of judge, and allow for european parliament representation in the parliamentary assembly of the coe when this body elects judges to the european court of human rights. further to this progress, the commission should be mandated to negotiate accession to the protocols supplementing the echr which concern rights enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights. the next logical step, also in harmony with the charter of fundamental rights, is the accession of the eu institutions to the european social charter.
mr president, i would just like to say that the debate this afternoon reflects parliament’s willingness, indeed insistence on being fully engaged in this process. given my limited time, i would just like to make three brief points. i support commissioner rehn’s statement – and indeed commissioner andor’s statement today – in regard to the scrutiny of member state’s budgets. at one point it looked like the eurozone and the eu might not make it to 2020 as an entity. so to ensure that not only do we survive but thrive it is crucial that member states deliver on commitments and promises already made. closing the stable door after the horse has bolted has always been a useless exercise. secondly, for the past 18 months, member states and the eu have focused almost exclusively on the stabilisation of financial institutions. in fact we have been consumed by it. while this is important, very many citizens have lost trust and are now feeling abandoned. they are looking for support from member states and they are looking to the eu to put in place a framework that is conducive to job creation, to entrepreneurship and to the support of smes, but crucially, that framework must link growth in the economy with the creation of decent jobs and an improvement in the well-being of all citizens, especially those below the poverty line. finally, there is a major crisis in youth unemployment. a commission document issued yesterday confirmed that youth unemployment in the eu stands at 20%, which is twice that forecast for overall unemployment. this crisis is every bit as real and as immediate as the economic crisis and, while i heard the commissioner’s comments on youth initiatives and i welcome them, there must be real coordination between, and strong influence on, member states to translate those initiatives into concrete jobs.
a uachtaráin, tá bród orm cúpla focal a rá maidir leis an díospóireacht seo faoi straitéis 2020, agus seo a leanas na pointí a theastaíonn uaim a lua. i must say it is disappointing and sometimes depressing to hear speaker after speaker here in strasbourg and in brussels talk about the failure of the lisbon strategy. it was not all a failure and if it were i do not think 67% of the irish people would have voted in favour of the treaty of lisbon last october. there have been many benefits for all to see, in particular at regional level, as the commissioner pointed out. however, there are a number of areas which i would be concerned about. firstly, where does the six-month rotating presidency fit into this? i see each country coming in here outlining their priorities for the six months rather than where they fit into the overall targets set down annually for the 10 years. i think that is a very important point; no football team changes its manager every six months for him to come in with a different set of priorities which you cannot achieve in a short period of time. secondly, i welcome the instruments which have been brought in to make member states stand up to their responsibilities, and pay for their failures if they do not do so. ‘softly, softly’ will not do anymore. if you are part of a team, and you play badly, you are either dropped or told to up your game. we have to up our game. finally, i want to say that i also welcome the suggestion to empower the regions and the cities as part of this process.
a uachtaráin, scríobh pádraig ó conaire leabhar uair amháin dar teideal m’asal beag dubh agus dúirt sé go raibh an t-asal ina sheasamh ‘agus a thóin le gaoth, gan aird aige ar an saol ná ag an saol air’. that description could apply, with respect, to university professors in the past as well, as they lived in their ivory towers immune from the world and the world immune from them, but, thankfully, that now has all changed, and changed utterly. in recent times i have seen three great examples of that. firstly, in my own town of tralee, the institute was awarded the european entrepreneurial region of the year award for their work in business and in entrepreneurial establishment. secondly, in my conversations and meetings with the new professor and president of university college cork, i have learned that they are really getting engaged with the business community and vice versa. most encouraging of all is that we were in santiago a few weeks ago and the university there had developed a fantastic model of involvement with the business community and even have created their own bank to encourage start-up companies who often cannot get funding to get the companies going. we at european union level can do a lot in encouraging them, creating the opportunities for development and also establishing the coordination of research that can be eventually turned into the knowledge economy and the smart jobs we are talking about.
madam president, academics are by nature an argumentative group, so as a former university lecturer and course director it has been with great interest that i followed a very public debate in ireland between academics over the future direction of irish universities. where these academics converge is in the agreement that universities remain one of europe’s great innovations and that their continued success is essential to the future social, political and economic success of the european union. however, economic success must not be confused with social development, in society as in university; and so this crossroads we have come to in third-level education, with traditional student-based learning in one direction, and the demands of modern business-driven economies in the other, must be navigated with the greatest of care. profit growth and modern development are integral elements of today’s universities, but, with many faculties unrelated to business and profit-driven professions – and i am thinking of arts and the humanities in particular – it is important that, in order to retain a balance between both economic and intellectual success, modern universities retain some essential academic links with their more financially naive past.
i scríbhinn. – a uachtaráin, ní foláir do chéimithe na heorpa taithí agus scileanna ar ardchaighdeán a bheith acu chun deiseanna gairme maithe a bhaint amach, chun a bheith iomaíoch sa domhan mór agus chun fiontraíocht a spreagadh san eoraip. agus geilleagar eolasbhunaithe á thógáil, tá an-tábhacht ag baint leis an gcomhphlé agus leis an gcaidreamh a cothaíonn sé idir gnó, taighde agus oideachas. cé gur ar na ballstáit atá an fhreagracht oideachas a chur ar fáil, tá sárbhuntáistí i gceist le naisc thrasteorann a bhunú agus le comhoibriú níos fearr a chothú idir an pobal gnó agus ollscoileanna na heorpa. tacaím go láidir leis an rapóirtéir agus é ag lorg tiomantas agus ceangaltas idir ollscoileanna agus gnóthaí, agus aontaím nach ceart don chomhphlé seo díriú ar chúrsaí eolaíochta agus teicneolaíochta amháin ach go mba chóir na réimsí oideachais ar fad a chlúdach. ní foláir go mbeadh scileanna láidre atá oiriúnach don fhostaíocht ag céimithe na heorpa agus go mbeadh teacht éasca acu ar chláir ríthábhachtacha cosúil le erasmus d’fhiontraithe óga agus do phrintísigh. ní mór cúrsaí oideachais agus oiliúna a athchóiriú chun aitheantas a thabhairt do riachtanais an lucht oibre agus an gheilleagair eolasbhunaithe.
a uachtaráin, vótáileas i bhfabhar na tuarascála seo agus ba é an rud ceart le déanamh é. ach maidir le fuinneamh núicléach i gcoitinne, ba mhaith liom a rá go bhfuil meascán mearaí ar a lán saoránach agus i mo thír féin tá beagnach gach duine i gcoinne fuinnimh núicléigh de bharr na dtubaistí uafásacha a tharla in sellafield agus in chernobyl. mar sin, molaim don choimisiún iniúchadh a dhéanamh ar an scéal maidir leis na buntáistí agus na míbhuntáistí a bhaineann le fuinneamh núicléach, agus páipéar a fhoilsiú i dtreo agus go mbeidh seans ag saoránaigh a n-aigne a dhéanamh suas bunaithe ar an bhfírinne seachas ar mhothúcháin. mar fhocal scoir, ba mhaith liom comhghairdeachas a dhéanamh leatsa, a uachtaráin, as ucht an jab maith a rinne tú do chéad lá sa chathaoir.
in writing. − i supported this report on the union for the mediterranean (ufm). europe and the mediterranean share many cross-border challenges which can be better addressed through a regional integration process, with effective institutions which can surmount the limits of bilateral cooperation,. such challenges are all the more acute in a context of crisis, and it is in the eu's interest to address the growing disparities between both regions, thereby contributing to a viable and secure future for the people of the mediterranean. the eu and the governments within the ufm must prioritise the setting up of its institutions and infuse them with a coherent political strategy which keeps at its core the promotion of democracy and the advancement of human rights, including social rights. if these goals are to be meaningfully furthered, peace agreements between neighbours in the middle east have to be reached. this necessitates an end to israel's siege of gaza and settlement policy, combined palestinian commitment to non-violence and its state building programme along with mutual respect for the 1967 borders. i will continue to oppose the upgrading of the eu-israel association agreement until israel comes into compliance with its human rights obligations.
author. − madam president, as an international socialist i strongly defend the right of each individual to freedom of religious belief and practice, on the basis that the fundamental rights of others are not transgressed. the people of pakistan, and even more so the religious minorities, are at the present time caught between the institutional bigotry of the pakistani state and, in some regions, the ultra-reactionary and obscurantive forces of the taliban. there is, of course, a fundamental contradiction in right-wing groups in this european parliament claiming to stand for freedom and human rights in pakistan, while supporting the war in afghanistan which is having a severe spill-over effect into pakistan with very detrimental consequences. the slaughter of civilians in afghanistan by nato forces and by western-supplied armaments in pakistan, apart from being criminal in itself, can push some civilians into the arms of the reactionary groups. at the heart of the crisis in pakistan are the feudal capitalist structures under which enormous levels of poverty flourish at the present time. neither the corrupt elite in pakistan, represented by the present government, nor the main opposition party have any answers for the people. independent organisations representing working people and the poor are critical. the progressive workers federation is one such organisation whose half a million members are trying to rebuild strong social traditions to unite working people, cross national and religious lines, and unite men and women. this is the future direction that pakistan needs to take.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, i condemn the brutal repression by the thai government and state against the protestors in bangkok and elsewhere in thailand. despite propaganda that these were terrorists, in the main they were in fact impoverished farmers from the north and around bangkok, sections of the urban working class, and their families, who saw their protest as a struggle against the enormous poverty and hardship that they suffer. unfortunately these oppressed people look to the billionaire and former prime minister, thaksin shinawatra, for a solution. despite some populist measures against poverty when he was in government, mr thaksin represents the capitalist elite and deceives the masses. on the other side there is the current prime minister abhisit and his party, who represent other sections of the elite. i think the poor rural masses and the urban working class in thailand urgently need their own independent organisation to fight for their rights, and i hope that the next mobilisation in thailand might be a united struggle of workers, poor farmers, students and youth, dedicated to overthrowing all corrupt elites and bringing the major wealth of thailand into public ownership and democratic control and, in a socialist thailand, transforming the lives of its people and also fighting for the rights of all minorities.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. − mr president, according to the list someone else should be speaking, but thank you for calling me at this point. i was delayed coming to strasbourg, as many can be, but i did see much of the countryside on the way. as you know, there is much pressure on farmers and the rural community. i want to thank the budget rapporteur for her work and for her commitment to keeping her colleagues informed at every stage of the process. there are some concerns around agriculture. i hope that the commission’s optimism over market developments comes to fruition and is accurate, because if it is not i would be worried about the budgetary pressures in 2011 should the markets not evolve in the favourable way that the commission anticipates. there have been problems in the past and we fear that these might happen again. it is important to mention in this budget debate the difficult situation around agriculture payments as we look beyond 2011. it is good that there will be no financial discipline required next year, and indeed i hope that position prevails, although it will be tight in 2012. however, this house needs to know that in 2013 we will be facing a situation where there will be reductions in payments to farmers where modulation applies, and that is before we have reform of the common agricultural policy. a simple message to the commission is that agriculture is vulnerable and it is important for food security, for environmental protection and because it is the very heart of the european union. it needs an adequate budget and that must be reflected in the resources that are made available to it. market support measures are vital when we have a crisis, and that is why i stress my concerns that you need to be cautious about how the markets emerge in terms of agriculture. looking today at the countryside looking at its best, i would say there is a price to be paid for a countryside and a rural fabric that will survive and thrive, and this needs to be reflected in the budgetary resources we make available to agriculture.
a uachtaráin, ar dtús ba mhaith liom an coimisinéir agus an rapóirtéir a mholadh as ucht a mhíniú dúinn conas a oibreoidh an buiséad amach anseo. go ginearálta, aontaím leis na pointí atá déanta ag mo chomhghleacaithe, ach ba mhaith liom cúpla pointe eile a dhéanamh. firstly, i would like to agree with my irish colleague regarding the importance of agriculture and the preservation of the rural way of life, which is of absolutely fundamental importance to the quality of life and the future of our countries. secondly, under the lisbon treaty, we have competence for sport and tourism in particular: two areas that are very important to me. i would like this to be taken into consideration when the budget is being done, because there is not much point in having a competence for sport and tourism if we do not have a budget to enact some actions in due course. sin iad na pointí is tábhachtaí domsa. níor mhaith liom níos mó a rá – mar tá an t-am beagnach istigh – ach iarraim oraibh iad a chur san áireamh nuair a bheidh an buiséad á phlé.
madam president, i thank the rapporteur, mr cashman, for this report and the passionate presentation of it. i am particularly grateful about his paragraphs 48, 49 and 50 on food security. i actually think his explanatory note is much stronger than the paragraphs in the report, because we have a real problem in the european union. we are spending less and less of our development aid budget where it is needed most – that is, in subsistence agriculture and among peasant farmers. the figures – and they were in our resolution on food security in january 2009 – are as follows: we have reduced the amount of development aid devoted to agriculture and rural development from 17% in 1980 down to just 3% in 2006. perhaps the commission will tell us what actions they are taking to address that – and i see a nodding head, so i am hopeful – and also to get governments in african countries to recognise that hunger exists in the rural areas where people could actually farm if they had the tools. i disagree fundamentally with paragraph 22. you know the reasons. we should not go alone on this, and export refunds are not the problem.
madam president, firstly, the european union does an awful lot of good work. only last week we saw success at the european court of justice on roaming rates. i think commissioner reding had a very important part to play in that, and i compliment her. the motorways of the sea is another example which colleagues have mentioned, and now we are discussing this very important topic: transport of freight by rail. i think the point made by mr marinescu is important. while the amount of freight transported by rail has declined over the years, the climate has now changed. with global warming and volcanic ash, people are more amenable to travel by rail and to send freight by rail. there are difficulties, i know, but the gains are immense in terms of cost, in terms of less pollution, less log jams, less accidents on the roads. if i may use a pun, you are on the right track – the railway track! keep it going and have as much success as you had with the roaming charges.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, may i thank the rapporteur for a very fine report. i can support him in the general thrust of his comments and also in the concerns that he raises. can i say in particular that we are able to admit estonia to the euro area because of sacrifices made by the estonian people and the leadership given by the estonian government and parliament. this leadership goes beyond simply putting their house in order and making the sacrifices that go with that. while some of us are licking our wounds, being very uncertain about the future and wondering about the eurozone, here is this small country showing the way. it is a beacon not just for the other countries in that region that aspire to join the european union, but a beacon for the whole of europe to reinforce our confidence at this difficult time which will pass. i would like to remind the house while i am on my feet that, during the first 10 years of the euro, 16 million jobs were created within the european area – many more jobs than were created at the same time in the united states. this really is therefore an endorsement of the whole project at a time when it needs endorsement by a courageous parliament, courageous government and courageous people. i welcome estonia and i think they are doing the right thing. the experience from my country – another small country – has been almost entirely beneficial. think about where small countries would otherwise be. where would we be if we did not have the european central bank and the commission and the fellowship of the eurozone ministers in these difficult times? we would be truly lost. two points i want to raise concern the issue of boom-bust cycles, which has to be addressed and does need to be monitored, and that of asset inflation. i was raising this with the president of the european central bank for two years before it became popular to talk about it. the commission and the ecb have to somehow come to terms with how low inflation and low interest rates also give asset inflation. there has to be some way of dealing with that. i am glad to support the general thrust of the rapporteur’s report.
madam president, tonight children, women and men from three different working class communities in dublin – coolock, crumlin and sean mcdermott street in the north inner city – protested outside dublin city council in a desperate effort to halt the closure of their public swimming pools, which the council says it has no finances to run. in these communities already hit by high unemployment, recreation facilities are already very scarce, and closing these pools would amount to a barbaric act of social vandalism. these threatened closures reflect savage cuts in public spending by the irish government, fully supported by the eu commission. the cost of running these pools would amount to perhaps eur 1 million per year. meanwhile, the irish government is pouring eur 30 billion into recapitalising banks and developers. incredibly, dublin city has been selected as the european capital of sport 2010! i join with these communities in demanding that these pools are kept open; keep recreation facilities in working-class communities open for the people and close down the developers and the bond-holders.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, first of all i want to thank the rapporteur mrs bauer for her hard work. the core issue we are dealing with here in this report is whether to include, or exclude, self-employed drivers from the working time directive. it is crucial to remember that all drivers, employed or self-employed, come under the 2006 driving time regulations which regulate their driving time, their break times and their rest periods. therefore road safety matters are dealt with adequately under that directive, and, if anybody believes that they are not, then we need to look at the driving time directive. there is no data relating accidents to the working time of professional drivers and no data distinguishing between employed and self-employed drivers. therefore we have no data on a decision to include self-employed drivers. legislation must be based on sound reliable data and all the scaremongering about self-employed drivers working 86 hours per week and causing accidents is just that: it is scaremongering and is not based on any reliable data. this legislation, if it includes self-employed, will be virtually unenforceable. are we to have an army of inspectors looking over the shoulders of self-employed workers to see if they are performing general administrative duties or administration relating to the job under way? according to the legislation, working time includes when a self-employed person is at their work station. this is defined in the legislation as the main place of business of the undertaking, together with its various subsidiary places of business. will the office located in the small bedroom or the attic of the self-employed driver’s home be defined as his work station, and who will police and enforce the legislation? yes, there are issues relating to competition for self-employed, but this legislation will not deal with those matters. in fact in my own country we deal very effectively with this matter through the tax system. finally, if we reject the commission proposal we will end up with bad law. it is disproportionate and will not achieve its aims, and it will pile further red tape and bureaucracy on already struggling smes in most countries and particularly in my own country, ireland. it is unenforceable, and that makes an ass of the law.
madam president, as a former self-employed truck driver, i support keeping the self-employed in this directive. own-account drivers, i know for a fact, are under tremendous pressure to work night and day. commissioner kallas, your speech and your proposal is a disgrace. it puts drivers’ health and safety at risk. it puts other road users at risk. it puts smes at risk from unfair competition, and it puts increased pressure on decent employers to push their employees into self-employment. fifty per cent of drivers have admitted falling asleep at the wheel. twenty per cent of accidents are due to fatigue. thirty per cent of drivers’ working time is taken up loading and unloading and helping passengers. ms harkin, if you are still here, what they do in their attic is their own business. this parliament must stand up for citizens’ safety and against those who want an unregulated transport sector. commissioner kallas, go back to the drawing board.
mr president, over 60% of irish adults are overweight or obese and similar figures can be found across europe. this regulation will help us tackle not only this obesity crisis, but also other health problems such as diabetes, stroke and heart disease. unfortunately, the current industry-developed gda labelling system is complex, arguably misleading and generally misunderstood. traffic light food labelling is a simple, universally understood and transparent system that health and consumer groups support and many health-conscious food producers have already voluntarily and successfully adapted. i also believe that alcohol producers should label their products for calories and sugar in a similar fashion. nobody has yet offered me one good reason why alcohol should be excluded. we all know there has been massive industry pressure on this piece of legislation. i urge my fellow meps to resist this pressure and take a pro-health stance by supporting traffic light and alcohol labelling in tomorrow’s vote.
mr president, we are talking about food information to consumers. as members of this house, we get information on many things and it is not so much the information, but what we do with it, that is crucial. i want to address two specific points in this report. one is country of origin. we do have country-of-origin labelling for beef. perhaps the union would not have chosen to have it, but a crisis forced us to have it. it seems to have worked very effectively and very well. i support the idea that, particularly in relation to meat products, there is a need for country-of-origin information for consumers so that they know where their food comes from. let me move on to my second point, the issue where i would give an amber light. i have read – and indeed thank those who have given me the information – about traffic lights and gdas, and i have tried to analyse this information extremely carefully. i have a number of points to make. we have health warnings on cigarette packs. i do not smoke, i think the warnings are wonderful and i will not smoke. those who smoke continue to smoke through all the alarming warnings that are on the labels. can i stress that labels will not make you thin. labels will not reduce obesity. we need a much deeper discussion around this problem. we should ban lifts and cars so that we get more exercise, but we are hardly likely to take that particular route. i am glad this is a first reading. i think the issues are too complex to solve at this stage. we need a deeper debate and discussion and to come up with something that is in the best interests of the title of the report: ‘food information to consumers’.
rapporteur. − mr president, i know colleagues do not like people speaking at this particular time, but i beg their indulgence for a few short minutes. firstly, because this was not debated in the house it is important that something should be said about it, particularly because of the part played by the european union international fund for ireland. secondly, most people in ireland – and beyond ireland – think this fund was largely funded by the usa. of course the usa played a huge part – and i would like to thank them for that – as did canada, australia and new zealand, but it is important to point out that, in the period 2006 onwards, the european union is actually funding 57% of the fund. that is not something that is widely known and, of course, having no debate on it here in parliament meant that we kept it a secret. so i would like to highlight the part played by the european union in helping to create contact, dialogue and reconciliation in northern ireland, which thankfully, though still fragile as a peace process, is still holding. i would like to pay tribute today to all the people who contributed to peace in northern ireland – there are so many – and particularly, i suppose, on the extremes. parties like dr ian paisley’s party – he was a member of this house for many years – and gerry adams’ party, who would never have been seen to come together 20 years ago, have come together in the peace process and power-sharing. the european union must take credit for this – at least its due share – and i want to highlight that today. i would like to pay tribute to all those who have taken risks for peace in northern ireland, and i hope that peace will continue. tá súil agam go vótálfar d’aon ghuth i bhfabhar an rúin seo, agus molaim gach duine lena mbaineann as an bpáirt a ghlac siad i bpróiseas na síochána i mo thír féin.
mr president, i would suggest to those who are left in the house that we should refrain from further debate on this. it is abundantly clear that there were 621 votes. the vice-president got 334. it is a majority; let us move on. if the general public throughout the 27 countries are watching they will have very little respect for this house. there are bigger issues than this, such as high unemployment. let us debate the issues which are important and not waste time debating this further. i accept your explanation, mr president; i accept the explanation of the president. so move on and deal with issues which are important.
mr president, i was extremely pleased, but not surprised, at the overwhelming vote in favour, which has been consistent throughout the debates on the international fund for ireland. of course the eu is one of the main contributors to the ifi’s inception in 1986, when it was established by the london and dublin governments to promote economic and social development in the 12 counties on both sides of the border. tá breis agus eur 800 milliún de ranníocaíochtaí íoctha isteach sa chiste, agus is infheistiú de bhreis agus eur 2 bhilliún atá i gceist nuair a chuirtear an éifeacht iolraitheora san áireamh. is as contae cois teorann dom féin agus is ionadaí mé don réigiún teorann, agus mar sin tuigim go maith an pháirt a ghlac an ciste idirnáisiúnta d’éirinn i bpróiseas na síochána. tá breis agus 40 000 post díreach agus 16 000 post indíreach cruthaithe le cuidiú ón chiste idirnáisiúnta, agus tá deiseanna fostaíochta cruthaithe aige do réigiún atá faoi mhíbhuntáiste eacnamaíoch. in conclusion, while a sunset strategy has been agreed to take the work of the ifi to the end of this year, i do believe that every consideration should be given to prolonging this worthwhile and effective programme. thank you for your indulgence.
i scríbhinn. − fearaim fíorfháilte roimh an gcúiteamh ón gciste eorpach um choigeartú don domhandú atá á dháileadh ar iar-oibrithe waterford crystal agus ar na comhlachtaí coimhdeacha. bunaíodh an ciste chun cúnamh a thabhairt d’oibrithe atá ag fulaingt de thoradh athruithe struchtúracha sa ghréasán trádála domhanda agus beidh sé an-tábhachtach don phobal áitiúil a raibh tionscal waterford crystal ag a lár. ós rud é go raibh an tionscal seo lárnach don réigiún, go raibh an-chuid oibrithe oilte áitiúla fostaithe ag earnáil an ghloine agus ag na comhlachtaí coimhdeacha, agus go raibh an earnáil seo fíorthábhachtach ó thaobh fhéiniúlacht réigiún phort láirge de, cabhróidh an cistiú seo go mór leis na hoibrithe agus lena dteaghlaigh agus cabhróidh sé le deiseanna fostaíochta eile a thabhairt do na hoibrithe. ní foláir bearta comhordaithe a chur i bhfeidhm ar an leibhéal áitiúil chun a chinntiú go ndéantar dáileadh ceart ar an gcistiú seo. ós rud é go bhfuil an lucht oibre seo níos sine ná oibrithe eile, agus ós rud é gur obair an-oilte a bhí ar siúl acu, ní mór a chinntiú go n-úsáidtear an cistiú chun breisoiliúnt agus oideachas a chur ar fáil, chun daoine a spreagadh chun fiontraíochta agus chun rochtain ar fhostaíocht a fheabhsú.
in writing. − i wholeheartedly welcome this decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to assist the waterford chrystal workers. the global economic crisis, coupled with major shifts in world trade, has made many workers redundant in ireland and across europe. i urge the irish government to act swiftly to ensure that these resources are promptly and effectively used to meet the workers' individual retraining and educational needs. the timeframe for use of this fund is limited and no time must be lost in providing the services needed. there is a need to revise the regulation of the egf to enable greater flexibility in the use of the resources provided particularly with regard to the timeframe.
i scríbhinn. − vótáil mé i bhfabhar na tuarascála seo maidir le ranníocaíochtaí leanúnacha an ae don chiste idirnáisiúnta d’éirinn. tá eur 15 milliún íoctha isteach sa chiste ag an aontas eorpach don tréimhse 2007 – 2010. tá maoiniú an ae (ar 57% den iomlán é) lárnach d’éifeacht an chiste. bhí dea-thionchar ag an gciste ar chúrsaí in éirinn agus i dtuaisceart éireann araon, agus tá cúnamh agus tacaíocht tugtha aige do lear maith tionscnamh trasteorann ó bunaíodh an ciste i 1986. thug an ciste tacaíocht don tsíocháin agus don athmhuintearas; spreag sé an caidreamh agus an pháirtíocht agus chuidigh sé le dul chun cinn eacnamaíoch agus sóisialta. bhí tionchar soiléir agus suntasach ag an gciste ar na pobail atá i gceist agus chuir sé go mór le hiarrachtaí síocháin bhuan a bhaint amach, go háirithe lena ndearnadh i gcomhar leis an gclár peace i dtuaisceart éireann agus sna contaetha cois teorann.
in writing. − i strongly support this report on progress towards the achievement of the millennium development goals. the eu is 20 billion euro short of its funding commitments, at a time when states are cutting back their aid budgets. the eu member states must not falter when it comes to fulfilling their commitments in the framework of the european consensus on development. moreover, the mdgs have to be seen from a development-enabling perspective, while at the same time facing and tackling the root causes of poverty. member states must commit 0.7% of gni to aid by 2015, as promised, rather than decrease that share, which is doubly alarming in times of crisis, as gni itself diminishes. besides, it is not acceptable for the eu to broaden the definition of official development aid to include other financial flows such as remittances or debt cancellation measures. to address underdevelopment, the developed world needs to vigorously fight tax havens and illicit capital flows which deprive developing countries of resources they desperately need. i believe that responsibility for development has to remain within the remit of the development commissioner, who needs to push for better policy coherence, especially as regards trade, common agriculture and fisheries policies.
madam president, i would like to thank my colleague reimer böge for these questions and this debate on the budget. earlier today we voted on budget 2011 and we all know how difficult it was to manoeuvre within the very tight margins in the budget. we also know that we were due a mid-term review of the budget. regarding the non-paper which i read from the commission, i would like to ask what status it has now. i know it is slightly off this point, but are some of the ideas contained in it still within the commission’s framework for further discussion? i am particularly concerned about attitudes to agriculture spending and any attempts to renationalise that policy. others have of course discussed the realities for member state budgets and member state governments as well as the concern about looking for additional funding when all our member states are having financial and economic problems. however, if we are to have more europe, there is a requirement for more resources. i think one of the great difficulties we have in this parliament is that we have not communicated enough the value of a european union budget and what it does. if you recall – again in the votes today – we voted on the globalisation fund. when citizens are in difficulty, whether it is from flooding or a jobs crisis, they turn to the european union for support and they turn to it for budget support. that provides solidarity to the european union, which is something that you cannot put a price on. i think we have to be conscious of this. if we continue to measure and count euros, rather than looking at what we are trying to create in the european union, i think we will limit our vision for the future of what we all hold dear at the european union. that said, perhaps the analogy of a cake is appropriate at this point – that people look at the european union budget in the shape of a cake. if we have more demands on it, we will continue to slice it ever thinner unless we increase the resources.
mr president, i think the commissioner said at the outset, and he was correct, that we need to learn the lessons from the financial crisis and take measures to ensure that it does not happen again. he is absolutely right in that and, obviously, the lisbon treaty gives us stronger control over those situations because, in the recent past, the real lesson to be learnt is that politics and politicians were not in control, that we allowed bankers, regulators and rating agencies to do as they wished and we see now where we are as a result of it. we must ensure that that never happens again and we, as politicians, and particularly here in the european union, have to take control because we are supposed to be in control and everybody else should fall into line beneath that, observe the law and ensure that proper practices are operated on a daily basis.
on behalf of mrs mcguinness, who tabled the question, i thank you for your frank and detailed response. i have just one or two brief questions. firstly, is the commission taking any action against those who have used structural funds inappropriately, particularly in the area where we are discussing the provision of facilities for people with disabilities? secondly, how soon can we actually eliminate such practices, if at all, in the member states?
i shall be brief out of respect for others. firstly, commissioner, thank you for a very detailed and comprehensive response, which i deeply value. i have just one supplementary. in the event of countries not meeting deadlines, would the commission not consider making the solidarity fund available in the event of flooding taking place in the future – or in the past, because we have an application in at the minute regarding flooding?
i note what has been said about the information exchange and in particular with relation to flash flooding. i happen to live near the river dodder in dublin, and relatively small rivers can cause terrible devastation in cities in a relatively short period of time. can i ask that a manual be prepared, which would include such things as, for example, making sure sluice gates are cleared, not blocked by debris, because things like that cause this sort of damage. if there were a manual, it really should be applied by local authorities, but it could be best practice which could be shared throughout the european union, and i would encourage that that be done.
a uachtaráin, rinne an tuile i rith an tsamhraidh an-damáiste in éirinn, go mór mór don bhonneagar, do shiopaí agus do thithíocht. bhain costas de bheagnach eur 1 billiún leis sin. ach níl an milleán go léir ar an bhfliuchras, ba í an fhadhb ba mhó in éirinn ná an fhailí atá déanta ó thaobh choimeád na n-uiscebhealaí de. is treoir an-tábhachtach ar fad é treoir na n-uiscebhealaí. agus chomh maith leis sin, tá an-damáiste déanta – agus á dhéanamh fós – don fhiadhúlra go mór mór d’éanlaith annamh, ós rud é nach bhfuil an treoir éanlaithe i bhfeidhm ach oiread.
member of the commission. − in essence, once again you have pointed to the right direction. if the project or the investment does not have cross-border effects then it is pretty clear how the thing should be done. subsidiarity is clearly at stake here and i would have nothing to add. if the process is transparent, if everybody can have a view – this, by the way, was the intention of the eia directive amendments in the past and in 2003 this was aligned with the aarhus convention which should provide exactly that – then the process should lead to the things you mention. things are a bit more complicated when you talk about cross-border. what the directive is currently asking with regard to cross-border is that negotiations or better information exchange take place with the parties concerned. that should happen already under the epsa convention, but if it is in the context of the european union member states then, of course, this eia directive applies. to be honest, the commission has more or less a procedural role in that respect. we have to take care that all the necessary procedures are taken into account, necessary procedures which ideally should lead to an independent impact assessment, done first hand by the developer, checked if necessary, and looked at by the member states’ authorities. this is what we are guaranteeing. we should know that we have brought two important things to the floor through inclusion of the eia concept. one is that the environment is brought seriously into consideration when any kind of investment happens, and second that public consultation occurs in all cases so that things are transparent. but you are pointing in the right direction. i think the question, or what is implicitly behind your reasoning, is one of the issues i believe needs to be addressed in the future, in the revision of the eia directive, but i cannot give you an answer now as to which direction we will take. the discussion is starting now and i will certainly look into those details in the future.
mr president, i will be very brief. i just want to ask the question as to why you decided to ask five questions from one commissioner and only one question from another. is there a reason for this? it is legitimate that we might expect that two to three questions would be asked from each commissioner. i just want to know what the reason for this is.
mr president, i think it is disappointing that in the year 2010 we are still talking about women’s rights, notwithstanding the great progress made by the european union, especially in trying to get equal pay for equal work. i also want to highlight the lack of women’s rights particularly in the third world. i worked as a volunteer in malawi for a few months and i was appalled at the treatment of women there. firstly, they did most of the hard work in the fields while the men loafed around the place, and secondly, the sexual entitlements of some of those men, especially a guy known as ‘the hyena’, were absolutely abhorrent. i think it is time that the european union made development aid to these countries conditional on eliminating some of these appalling practices. the ngos could highlight it too a bit more than they are doing. i look forward to a women’s rights charter here in europe which can hopefully become a model to be implemented right throughout the world.
a uachtaráin, uair go leith ó shin bhí na mná ag rá go raibh sé déanach a bheith ag caint faoi chúrsaí ban, anois táimid ag druidim le meán oíche agus táimid ag plé cúrsaí spóirt. ach ar a laghad tá seans againn é seo a phlé; roimh liospóin ní raibh an seans sin againn. tá an seans againn anois agus is maith an rud é go bhfuilimid ag glacadh leis an seans sin, go háirithe nuair atáimid ag caint faoi dhaoine óga agus na heachtraí a bhíonn ar siúl ag an gníomhairí spóirt. mar a dúirt bean pack, tá a lán samplaí ann de dhaoine óga agus a lán rudaí curtha os a gcomhair amach maidir lena bheith ina réaltaí móra amach anseo. ach cad a tharlaíonn? tógtar amach as an teach iad, óna gclann, as na scoileanna, agus ansin tar éis bliana nó dhó tugtar bóthar dóibh. tarlaíonn sé sin don tromlach díobh. tá seans againn anois, san aontas eorpach, rud éigin a dhéanamh faoi sin agus dlíthe agus pionóis a leagadh síos chun daoine óga a chosaint ó na gníomhairí seo. ba chóir dúinn féachaint ar cad atá ag tarlú sna spóirt éagsúla agus sna tíortha éagsúla, iad a chur le chéile agus is é an rud is fearr a dhéanamh – go háirithe do dhaoine óga agus don spórt i gcoitinne.
in writing. – in this era of commercialisation and professionalism, agents are unavoidable aspects of the sporting landscape. the commission report estimates that 6 000 agents are active in the eu, generating a turnover of over eur 200 million for the transfer of players and athletes. football is the only sport where agents are active in all eu member states. football in europe is big business and it is essential that fair play and integrity are at the heart of the sport. the illicit trafficking and transfer of young players across borders is a worrying issue. this situation is particularly associated with football clubs and their search for talent. it is estimated that around 20 000 young africans have been brought to europe to play football but now live in the eu illegally because they did not secure a career as a football player. closer cross-border regulation, monitoring and minimum harmonised standards for agents' contracts would contribute to tackling this problem and are necessary to ensure the integrity of football. given the cross-border dimension of this issue, i would urge the commission to carve out an effective and strong role for itself in order to protect minors and halt the trafficking of players.
madam president, at tomorrow’s meeting of the council i would urge the european leaders to agree to commence accession negotiations with iceland. i am hopeful of a positive outcome and that member states will not allow the icesave issue to delay the beginning of the process. in july 2009 iceland presented its application. in february 2010 the commission responded by giving a favourable opinion. as a result of its eea membership iceland has already completed 22 of the 35 accession chapters of negotiations. the remaining issues and chapters to be concluded relate to agriculture, fish, structural funds, external relations, regional policy and budgetary matters. should the eu leaders provide the green light tomorrow, i know that the negotiations will be tough. however, i am confident that the other 13 chapters will be dealt with in a positive manner by both sides. i would again urge the european council tomorrow to give approval to proceed with negotiations.
i scríbhinn. − tá sé de cheart ag tomhaltóirí eolas soiléir agus sothuigthe a fháil maidir leis na táirgí bia atá á gceannach acu agus fios a bheith acu cén tír inar táirgeadh na hearraí sin. cabhróidh rialacha níos soiléire maidir le lipéadú bia réamhphacáistithe le tomhaltóirí agus iad ag iarraidh an rogha cheart a dhéanamh agus bia folláin a cheannach. ós rud é go meastar go mbeidh 20% de dhaonra na heorpa, aicmithe mar dhaoine murtallacha faoi deireadh na bliana seo, is léir gur chóir bearta a chur i gcrích le réimeanna cothroma bia a spreagadh. ní mór cothromaíocht a bhaint amach, áfach, idir eolas maith, soiléir a chur ar fáil agus an-iomarca eolais a chuirfeadh mearbhall ar thomhaltóirí a chuir ar lipéid. níor chóir go gcuirfeadh lipéadú bia ualach rómhór ar an earnáil bia, go háirithe ar tháirgeoirí beaga agus áitiúla. is mór ag tomhaltóirí na heorpa an bia atá ar ardchaighdeán agus atá á tháirgeadh ag feirmeoirí na heorpa agus ní foláir eolas soiléir maidir leis an tír inar táirgeadh an t-earra a bheith ar an lipéadú. tá lipéadú den chineál seo ar fheoil, éineoil, glasraí agus torthaí riachtanach chun a chinntiú nach bhfuil tomhaltóirí á gcur amú.
in writing. − i support this resolution which highlights the need for strong economic governance in the face of the financial and economic crisis. the current crisis has made it clear that we need a common social and economic strategy and the means to tackle the macroeconomic imbalances which have exacerbated our problems, but the eu's conservative governments remain fixated on choking growth, slashing and privatising public services and cutting welfare, while jealously guarding national economic governance prerogatives that need to be pooled to survive the crisis. we need to deal with the deficits, but we will fail to weather this crisis if every country slashes public spending and forces the citizens to bear the unsustainable burden of saving a financial sector that brought our economies to the brink of disaster and is now gambling against their survival. the eu governments must push for a global financial transaction tax at the g20 summit in toronto, and set the example by implementing it at eu level. the same goes for strict regulation of hedge funds and private equity. we must set up a european monetary fund that enables eu governments to raise funds to restructure their economies without harmful conditions.
in writing. − i regret to vote against these motions as i support them for the most part. the reason, however, that i cannot support this vote is that it is the policy of the irish labour party, of which i am a member, not to support a common consolidated corporate tax base.
mr president, our resolution is clear in its condemnation of israel’s illegal action in killing nine civilians and injuring 38. we are clear in our demand for an international inquiry which is credible, transparent and independent. the inquiry announced by israel is none of those things and is not acceptable. we demand an end to the siege of gaza. one of the most important elements is paragraph 10 of our resolution, which calls for a reshaping of eu policy towards the middle east. i would argue that that reshaping must include the diplomatic tool of sanctions in the event that israel refuses to meet the standards expected of a democratic state in dealing with its friends and with its enemies. smart sanctions to be applied on a step-by-step basis in the absence of moves by israel, within a specific timetable, to respect international law. the quartet needs to draw hamas in from the political margins. it would be impossible for any two-state agreement to succeed without their engagement in the process. the most democratic way forward is for early elections to the palestinian legislative council and for the president of the palestinian authority, with an undertaking by the participants and by the quartet to accept the decision of the people. baroness ashton, words are no longer enough. we must act.
thar ceann an ghrúpa alde. – a uachtaráin, ar an gcéad dul síos ba mhaith liom mo bhuíochas a chur in iúl don fheisire milana as ucht an tuarascáil chuimistheach seo a ullmhú dúinn. ar ndóigh tá cumas fíormhór fáis ar an dobharshaothrú in éirinn agus san eoraip. d’fhéadfadh an taontas eorpach cabhrú go mór le dhá chuspóir thábhachtacha a bhaint amach trí thacaíocht a thabhairt d’fhorbairt inbhuanaithe ar earnáil an dobharshaothraithe. ar an gcéad dul síos, d’fhéadfadh sé cur le cinnteacht an tsoláthair bia sa chomhphobal. ar an dara dul síos, d’fhéadfadh sé tacaíocht a thabhairt do phobail ar an gcósta atá i gcleithiúnas go mór ar an iascaireacht agus nach bhfuil teacht acu ar dheiseanna fostaíochta eile. glactar leis go bhfuil méadú leanúnach suntasach chun teacht ar an éileamh domhanda ar bhia mara agus nach mbeidh táirgí éisc fhiáine in ann freastal ar an éileamh seo. glactar leis freisin go bhfuil an cumas ag an dobharshaothrú an bhearna idir an t-éileamh agus saothrú táirgí éisc a líonadh. tá an eoraip taobh thiar sa mhéid seo áfach; fad agus atá an tsín – tír ina bhfuil 41% d’earnáil dobharshaothraithe an domhain lonnaithe – ar thús cadhnaíochta. tá luach eur 118 milliún sa bhliain ag an earnáil seo in éirinn agus tá níos mó ná 2 000 oibrí fostaithe inti. is í earnáil dobharshaothraithe na héireann an cúigiú ceann is mó san aontas eorpach. anuas air sin, measann eagraíocht bia agus talmhaíochta na náisiún aontaithe go dtiocfaidh méadú 61% ar tháirgí na hearnála faoin mbliain 2030. there is a perception that aquaculture in all its forms has a negative impact on the environment. while i strongly believe that aquaculture production must be carried out to the highest standards, the sector must be allowed to function within the context of an environmentally friendly regime. it is vitally important that the common fisheries policy allows the sector to substantially develop in harmony with existing eu environmental law. as an economic sector aquaculture is stalled within the european union. structural support for the aquaculture sector is essential. in conclusion, madam president, let me say in an irish context i would support a special programme of incentives designed to promote the development of off-shore, high-energy fish farming and more economic conditions than currently practised.
in writing. – as we are all aware, the over-fishing of bluefin tuna continues to occur despite repeated warnings from international bodies as to the perilous condition of their stocks. two years ago, scientists at the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tuna (iccat) recommended an annual fishing quota of 15 000 tonnes. iccat instead recommended that 22 000 tonnes should be fished. despite this, the fishing industry continues to harvest 60 000 tonnes of bluefin tuna annually. the outcome of this negligent approach is that a species which is labelled as critically endangered is being sold wholesale in supermarkets all over the world. what can the eu do to halt the inevitable slide towards near-extinction for north atlantic bluefins? this house could begin by recognising the hollow nature of recommendations coming from the iccat – an organisation which ignores the advice of its own scientists and whose own internal audit labelled its fishing policies a ‘travesty of fisheries management’, and an ‘international disgrace’. instead, this house should recognise the position of the convention on international trade in endangered species (cites) and upgrade the initial support expressed by the eu to official community policy.
a uachtaráin, do staon mé ar an vóta maidir le hionsaí stát iosrael ar an gcabhlach cabhrach go gaza, mar nach bhfuil an rún láidir go leor in aghaidh an fheachtais foréigin atá ar siúl ag arm iosrael ar mhuintir na palaistíne i ngaza agus ar an mbruach thiar. chuir dúnmharú naonúr gníomhairí cearta daonna déistean ar dhaoine ar fud an domhain. píoráideacht ar fharraigí idirnáisiúnta a bhí ann. ní féidir glacadh le diúltú iosrael d’fhiosrúchán neamhspleách; caithfear cáineadh a dhéanamh chomh maith ar rialtas stáit aontaithe mheiriceá – faoin uachtarán obama – de bhrí nár dheineadar cáineadh ar an ár. ní féidir aon mhuinín a chur ins na náisiúin aontaithe chun freagairt d’fhadhbanna an mheán-oirthir. chonaiceamar léirsithe idirnáisiúnta in aghaidh an ionsaí ar fud an domhain. tá sé tábhachtach a rá go raibh mórshiúl láidir in tel aviv, a raibh idir phalaistínigh agus iosraelaigh ann. agus i ndáiríre is trí ghluaiseachtaí ollmhóra de chuid an lucht oibre agus dhaoine bochta sa phalaistín – agus in iosrael chomh maith – a fhéadfar freagra a fháil ar cheist an mheán-oirthir agus sochaí nua dhaonlathach shóisialach a chur ar bun sa mheán-oirthear trí chéile.
in writing. − i welcome this report on eu policies in favour of human rights defenders, who play a priceless role in the advancement of fundamental rights, democracy and the rule of law. the lisbon treaty places the protection of human rights at the core of the eu's external action. the structure of the external action service should therefore reflect this principle, and each eu delegation to a third country needs to include a human rights envoy, to keep contact with independent civil society in a systematic fashion. if eu support for human rights is to remain effective and credible, the protection of human rights defenders has to be present at all levels and instruments of eu foreign policy. eu guidelines on human rights defenders need to be sensitive to especially vulnerable groups, such as women rights defenders, journalists, economic and social rights defenders and those advocating minority and indigenous rights. in its dialogue with third countries, the eu must do its utmost to ensure that their national laws grant the rights enshrined in the un declaration on human rights defenders, not only freedom of association, expression and assembly, but also the right to transparently receive domestic and foreign funding.
in writing. − i support this report on gender aspects of the economic downturn and financial crisis, which highlights the particularly negative impact of the current economic crisis on women, whose employment status tends to be more precarious, with a higher risk of redundancy and lack of social security coverage. moreover, 35 years into the implementation of the equal pay directive, the gender pay gap stands at an eu average of 18%, rising as far up as 30% in some member states. budgetary cuts are now affecting gender equality measures, work-life reconciliation policies as well as care services for children, the elderly and other dependents. about 95% of decision makers in financial institutions and all central bankers in the eu are men, so women are especially vulnerable to what is a truly man-made crisis. equal pay legislation at eu level needs to be revised and gender mainstreaming has to be part of the eu 2020 strategy, with specific targets in its employment and macro-economic guidelines. gender budgeting should be introduced in all policies. we need quality care services and increased participation of women at all levels of decision making in order to help curb the feminisation of poverty.
in writing. − i support this assessment of the results of the 2006-2010 roadmap for equality between women and men, and subscribe to its recommendations. the persistence of gender inequality is a denial of fundamental rights about which much remains to be done in europe. we need the european institute for gender equality to start its work monitoring relevant gender indicators, which will depend on gender-disaggregated statistics for accurate assessments. while female employment in europe has risen to almost 60%, we need to work towards the financial emancipation of women without sacrificing quality of employment or redoubling the burden of those women who care for dependents. the persistent gender pay gap needs to be addressed through a review of the equal pay directive. affordable quality care services are both a demographic and equality imperative. the same goes for state-borne parenthood costs, and the prevention of discriminatory practices in the private sector. the commission must closely monitor, and act upon, member state infringements of non-discrimination directives and gender-related measures. it should also come forward with a proposal on a directive to combat violence against women. this parliament has to be consulted on the drafting of the european charter of women's rights.
author. − mr president, the overthrow of the feudalist monarchy in 2006 was a massive step forward for the people of nepal. it was mass action by the working class, the peasants and the middle strata of society that achieved this victory with mass mobilisations of people power. however, it is quite clear that now a capitalist establishment and the right-wing political parties do not want this revolution to go any further as it would threaten their economic control and privileged position in nepalese society. a shameful 50% of nepal’s 29 million people live in abject poverty, 16% of whom are severely malnourished. millions of landless exist with high illiteracy rates. with extensive support in nepalese society, the communist parties have made serious political errors in going into coalition government after 2006 with parties of the right whose wish was to achieve political power while maintaining economic relations, which simply means a continuation of poverty and deprivation because of the maoists’ mistaken theory that a capitalist democracy is needed to pave the way for socialism. however, the mass movement of 2006, and again a mass general strike in may of this year, clearly demonstrate that the working class and the poor want a socialist transformation and a system that will give them a future free of poverty and repression. the approach that is needed now by the parties genuinely representing the masses and wanting to transform nepalese society is to give a clear lead independent of the establishment parties. that means breaking from coalitionism, and advancing a programme to take the main sources of wealth into public ownership and to be developed in democratic control of workers and peasants. such a democratic socialist programme would allow for an economic and social transformation in nepal and would also be a beacon to the tens of millions of poor in india and also working people in china. it is critical as well that there is full independence for the various national groups in nepal, whose rights must be respected.
mr president, i suppose one could say that one would want to be pretty stupid to oppose intelligent proposals. certainly the intelligent transport systems cannot be opposed: they are to be welcomed. compliments to mrs jensen and also mr kallas for outlining the benefits. obviously things that make for environmentally friendly transport, road safety, proper parking, tracking weather systems etc. are all of tremendous benefit to road users. regarding road safety, i would also like to see some emphasis being put on the effect that slow drivers have on road accidents. all the emphasis seems to be on speed, and obviously that is a major contributory factor. however, this is to be welcomed and i just want to thank the intelligent mrs jensen, for helping to make road use beneficial for all users, be they stupid or intelligent.
rapóirtéir do thuairim an choiste um fhorbairt réigiúnach. – a uachtarán, tá moladh mór ag dul go dtí an tuasal grosch as ucht an tuarascáil seo a chur ós ár gcomhair. tá súil agam gur féidir linn glacadh leis na moltaí i gcoitinne. the 2020 strategy speaks extensively about movement – movement of people, movement of goods, movement of ideas, and certainly such concepts as youth on the move, adults on the move, in particular tourism where the aged are given an opportunity to move – and of course completing the single market. this all means that we need a sustainable transport system, and that has been addressed by mr grosch, in particular in relation to the airports, such concepts as motorways of the seas – which is a wonderful development – and also rail connectivity, allowing people to move from one country to another by rail without any difficulty. also to be welcomed is the target of reducing emissions. twenty-seven per cent of co2 comes from transport; this figure is to be reduced by at least 20%. and of course reducing fatalities on the roads – 40 000 per year on average and 300 000 injured. that is a huge figure and to reduce that by 40% would be a great development. there is only one caveat where we are concerned in the committee on regional development and that is the suggestion that a large transport fund will be created, with the possibility of 60% of cohesion funding going to it. that is not acceptable to the regional development committee. i think there is need for further discussion and dialogue in this area, because cohesion funding is about much more than transport, but hopefully we can reach an agreement. agus, má éiríonn linn é sin a dhéanamh agus an fhadhb sin a réiteach, beimid ar mhuin na muice.
mr president, what a nice idea it would be if we could stagger holidays for this parliament, but i do not think that is going to happen. i listened to colleagues who mentioned bicycles. may i say that i purchased a new bike last week. it is very sustainable, but it is entirely impractical for the job i do. what we need are very practical, sustainable transport solutions. can i also add that there has – rightly – been a lot of talk about urban transportation and the need to have systems that link together, but let us not forget the numbers of people who live in isolated rural communities, where rural transport schemes on a small scale mean that they can get involved in the wider society. so there is both a social and an economic dimension to transport which we have to take into account. yes, of course we need to address the environmental issues, and i believe that will be done, through technology and through pressure on climate change. on the issue of a transport fund, i would regret any attempt to rob peter to pay paul. our big battle is to secure an adequate budget for the european union in its entirety post 2013. it is going to be tough.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i want to thank the rapporteur for his very comprehensive report. i have been a substitute member of the committee on petitions for six years and during that time i have worked very closely with some petitioners and listened very carefully to others. the first thing that always concerns me is that, in general, citizens have a very different perspective on the eu institutions than we do as meps or you do as commissioner. i think we need to put ourselves in the shoes of petitioners. i think if we want a really effective, citizen-friendly process, we need to set up some kind of panel composed of petitioners and then listen to what they have to say and use that as a catalyst for positive change. for many citizens, petitioning the european parliament is the last lap of a very long journey and they are often already very frustrated. we have a responsibility to smooth that path as much as possible, and indeed the proposal to convert the eu rights web page into a user-friendly, one-stop shop is, i think, an excellent one. but we also need to be supportive of citizens throughout the process, with clear, timely explanations as to what is happening throughout the entire procedure. the issue of inadmissible petitions comes up year after year and i think we need to be real about this. we are never going to fully explain to citizens what the competences of the union are or are not, so i think what is more important is that, if a petition is inadmissible, then that is clearly and simply explained to the petitioner and, crucially, suggestions as to where they might turn next are also included in the response. two final points. i support paragraph 17, which calls on the commission to deal with misleading directory companies. year in, year out, small businesses in many if not all member states are subject to harassment and legal threats from these misleading directory companies. finally, recital e speaks about the direct impact of eu legislation on citizens’ lives and how citizens are best placed to assess its effectiveness and shortcomings. we as legislators, and the commissioners as initiators of legislation, need to listen to this and use it as part of a reinforcing loop that improves our effectiveness rather than a cul-de-sac.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur. i want to use my time to bring to the attention of the house an update on the work of the committee on petitions dating back to 2006 and 2007, when we set up a committee of inquiry into equitable life. i chaired that committee. this house voted on a report in 2007 which called on the uk government to recognise its responsibility and to compensate equitable life policyholders in the uk, ireland, germany and elsewhere. today many of you may have received representations from your constituents who are concerned about the extent of this compensation. there is a suggestion that compensation will only amount to about 20%. this is not what the committee i chaired had in mind. i would like this house and the commission in particular to look very carefully at this. i believe the new uk government should honour what it said in its opening statement and commit to compensating all policyholders in an appropriate and fair manner.
in writing. – i am delighted to see that the number of submitted petitions has continuously increased; this has been greatly aided by the opportunity to submit petitions online. the year 2009 saw 65% of petitions submitted online, and i am proud to say that ireland has the highest per capita submission of petitions in the eu. the petitions committee is an invaluable tool for bringing europe into citizens’ lives through its direct interaction with petitioners. in 2009, 54% of petitions received were deemed inadmissible. this is a worrying trend, which if continued will inhibit the effectiveness of the committee. most of the petitions deemed inadmissible are the result of ongoing confusion concerning the powers and responsibilities of the petitions committee. we need to urgently introduce information campaigns for citizens on the powers and responsibilities of the petitions committee – this could be done through a one stop website, which would explain in a clear manner what falls under the committee’s powers and responsibilities and provide information on other possible methods of redress for non petition issues. the petitions committee is crucial in that it brings the powers of europe to the people, who are best placed to judge the shortcomings in the application of eu policy by member states.
mr president, at the outset i want to support the case made by my irish colleague, mrs mcguinness, in relation to equitable life: i also call on the uk government to deal with this issue as a matter of urgency and to honour its commitments. i have been inundated with correspondence from my own country today in relation to this. i wish to refer now to the temporary committee set up to examine the financial perspective for the years 2014-21, which will meet for the first time on thursday. mar bhall den choiste ba mhaith liom béim a chur ar an tábhacht a bhaineann le buiséad láidir a bheith ann don talmhaíocht ó 2013 ar aghaidh. caithfear smaoineamh nach bhfuil i gceist le caiteachas talmhaíochta ar fad an aontais ach 0.4% d’olltáirgeacht intíre an aontais eorpaigh. the continuation of a strong agricultural budget will ensure that the union is well equipped to meet future challenges, including food security, the preservation of natural resources, including the environment, job creation and, most importantly, the economic viability of rural areas.
mr president, i want to welcome today’s paper from the commission on the retail market monitoring report: ‘towards more efficient and fairer retail services in the internal market for 2020’. this is a very important report and i hope it is the first step on the road to greater transparency in the entire retail chain. just last week we saw examples of an inexplicable situation of very low agricultural commodity prices in some member states, my own included, and yet very high food prices for consumers. there is certainly a market malfunction, as the commission rightly points out. i think it significant that in this paper we are looking at not just the economic aspects of retailing but also the social, environmental and consumer impacts in this sector. i hope that parliament will put in submissions by 10 september. i hope it does not take 10 years to get a fairer retail sector, because at the moment both consumers and producers are losing out.
mr president, youth unemployment is a travesty in the european union at this time. it is an absolute tragedy that 20% of young people are unemployed. many of them are highly educated, fully qualified and mad for work, but they cannot get jobs because they are paying for the sins of others – the sins of financial terrorists, greedy speculators, overpaid bankers, golf-playing non-performing regulators. young people cannot get jobs as a result. we have got to do something about it. we have got to create internships for them and give them jobs. they do not have to be highly paid jobs and they do not even have to be full-time jobs, but certainly these young people need to start working because, the longer a person stays without work, the more difficult it is to become a good worker. we have got to take action now. if we do, we will be doing a great service to the youth of this union and it will remembered for evermore.
i scríbhinn. – a uachtaráin, tá na rátaí dífhostaíochta i measc daoine óga ag fás go fíorthapaidh ar fud an domhain agus faoi láthair níl mórán deiseanna ag daoine óga teacht ar fhostaíocht rialta bhuan. déantar idirdhealú ar bhonn aoise in aghaidh daoine óga agus iad ag dul isteach sa mhargadh saothair agus cuirim lánfháilte roimh a bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir le rochtain don óige ar an margadh saothair a spreagadh. cuirim fáilte ar leith roimh an togra maidir le níos mó post a chruthú trí fostóirí a spreagadh chun infheistíocht san óige a dhéanamh. tá traenáil leanúnach agus oiliúint fíorthábhachtach ó thaobh rochtain don óige ar an margadh saothair a fheabhsú agus tá earnáil an oideachais tríú leibhéal mórluachach sa mhéid seo. caithfear intéirneachtaí agus printíseachtaí a spreagadh, ag déanamh deimhin de nach bhfuil aon dúshaothrú i gceist agus go mbíonn na daoine óga in ann bunchostais mhaireachtála a íoc agus dul isteach sa mhargadh saothar amach anseo gan idirdhealú ar bith á dhéanamh orthu. ní foláir go rachadh an chomhairle, an coimisiún agus na ballstáit i dteagmháil le daoine óga ionas gur féidir na riachtanais agus tosaíochtaí seo acu a chur san áireamh agus beartas á dréachtú.
mr president, i should like to compliment mr fernandes on his report. it could not be more timely, because right across the european union the citizens at large are now getting to grips with what is happening to our world, the effect of climate change and especially how they individually can make a difference. it has taken a long time for that message to get through, but you can see it in schools: in my own country, more and more schools are now getting the green flag. the message from this is spreading out to their parents and the environment and there is much greater care as regards how they deal with issues, recycle waste and so forth. it can also be seen in agriculture: for example, farmers realise the damage that too much fertiliser causes, and they are now cutting back. i think now is the time to move and to help people ensure that they can make a contribution to the development of anaerobic digesters and so on, and, as other speakers have said, to the development of job creation for the new economy.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom a rá ar dtús go bhfuilim i bhfabhar na straitéise seo idir na tíortha timpeall ar an muir bhailt. ar an gcéad dul síos, ní chuireann sí isteach beag ná mór ar thíortha eile ná ní chuireann sí isteach ar an aontas eorpach féin. tá sí bunaithe ar an trí ‘ní hea’ – agus tá siadsan an-thábhachtach. uimhir a haon, níl aon chistiú breise á bhunú, uimhir a dó, níl creat dlíthiúil breise á bhunú, agus uimhir a trí, níl institiúidí breise á mbunú. mar a dúirt an rapóirtéir, tá na tíortha ag teacht le chéile chun fadhbanna comónta a réiteach, cosúil leis an gcomhshaol agus fadhbanna sóisialta agus eacnamaíochta. dá bhrí sin, d’fhéadfadh a lán maitheasa teacht as seo agus d’fhéadfadh sé a bheith ina eiseamlár do straitéis mhacraréigiúnach eile amach anseo. táim críochnaithe taobh istigh d’aon nóiméad amháin.
mr president, i fully support the rapporteur’s proposals. i have seen the benefits of objective 2 funding from my own experience, in my own country and two weeks ago in mannheim. if this were to be withdrawn, it would be a huge drawback for these regions. my own area got an entrepreneurial award from the european union. two weeks ago in mannheim i could see first of all the appreciation of the funding and, more importantly, the effect. i think in the world at large you have innovators and imitators. very few can innovate, almost everybody should or can imitate. often you will find the best innovation in these little regions. i saw it in mannheim; i have seen it in business parks etc. their work is benefiting their own regions but through imitation it can benefit many other regions as well. and, finally, as the rapporteur said, gdp cannot be the sole way of deciding the purchasing power of regions.
mr president, the policies implemented by the eu institutions during the spanish presidency were disastrous for the working-class people of europe. we saw an abject capitulation to the sharks in the financial markets, whereby predatory banks and hedge-fund pirates were allowed to exercise more control over economic policy than supposedly solid governments. president barroso and the eu commission acted as the enforcer for these sharks in the markets, demanding cuts across the board in public spending and in services, and you too, señor zapatero, acted as an enforcer for the speculators in the markets. instead of fighting them, as a real socialist party would do, you imposed savage cuts on the living standards of the spanish people at their behest. we now have a social nightmare of mass unemployment and a tax on living standards across europe. i salute the workers of spain for fighting these cuts with strong strike action. clearly the capitalist system only contains more and more disasters as it goes into deeper crisis. we have to sweep it away and replace it with a socialist and democratic society that can really transform the lives of our people in europe.
mr president, firstly i must say as a football fan i am delighted to see three european union countries in the last four of the world cup, and i can say without fear of contradiction that if my country, ireland, were involved we would be in the last four as well! regarding the spanish presidency, i think that the dynamic is all wrong in terms of judging it. we have not taken into account the fact that the new lisbon treaty has changed utterly the way the presidency operates and should be judged in the future. there is too much talk about leadership, success, flagship projects and so forth. the role of the presidency is really one of facilitation, and that is the way it should be judged in future. in fairness to the spanish, they did a good job in moving from pre-lisbon to post-lisbon. especially in the financial area there are now measures in place to rein in rogue banks and weak governments. so the spanish did not do too badly and they must be given credit for making the transition during the most difficult presidency of all. (applause)
mr president, i supported amendment 15 because i support the exemption, for a limited time, for domestic, regional, urban, suburban and rural services. i suppose my concern here is that some of the requirements and costs that will be passed on to smes, in particular small operators, will be such that they may even put some of them out of business. certainly i think that in some cases they may withdraw from certain routes and from certain markets and that will leave customers with no public transport availability. i am particularly concerned about the area of rural transport. probably urban and regional transport will be all right but, when it comes to rural transport, i think we may be in danger – if this legislation goes through – of finding a situation where rural transport operators will no longer continue to work those routes. we always talk in this parliament about overburdening smes and about costs and so on. i think that, in the current economic situation, a reasonable compromise would be to allow an exemption for a fixed period of time.
mr president, the committee on petitions is one of the great successes of the european union. i, along with other members, have seen it provide consolation, support and a sympathetic ear to people who have been met by a wall of frustration and bureaucracy in their own countries. however, one or two things need to be done to improve it: first, we need to communicate the message more to the citizens; second, we need to speed up the process; and, third, the member states have to be compelled to answer queries more quickly than they are doing at the minute. delays in answering frustrate the process, and this does not lead to a satisfactory situation. but this is one great development, and i compliment the committee and everybody involved for lending a sympathetic ear to the people who need it most.
mea culpa. i take the lesson.
i scríbhinn. − fáiltím roimh a bhfuil sa togra le haghaidh rialacha a bhunú d’iompar paisinéirí ar bhusanna agus cóistí chun deireadh a chur le hidirdhealú ar bhonn míchumais. fáiltím roimh a bhfuil ann maidir le cúiteamh comhréireach agus cabhair mar is cuí a chur ar fáil do phaisinéirí i gcás cealaithe nó moille. ní foláir a chinntiú, áfach, nach dtarlaíonn sé go mbíonn ar iompróirí beaga seirbhísí faoin tuath a stopadh de bharr rómhaorlathais nó de bharr costais árachais atá i bhfad níos airde de bharr an togra seo. is iad na hiompróirí áitiúla, na gnóthais bheaga agus na gnóthais teaghlaigh a bhíonn i bhfeighil an-chuid seirbhísí bus in éirinn. chuirfeadh an-iomarca rialacháin ar sheirbhísí áitiúla agus réigiúnacha ualach airgeadais agus riaracháin suntasach ar ghnóthais atá ag streachailt cheana féin. tá seirbhísí bus tuaithe fíorthábhachtach don saol faoin tuath. is córas iompair níos “glaise” iad agus go minic níl modh iompair eile ann don dream atá ina gcónaí i gceantair iargúlta tuaithe. ní foláir a chinntiú nach gcuirtear ualach rómhór ar na gnóthais seo, ualach a chuirfeadh as gnó iad. níor chóir go mbeadh paisinéirí thíos leis mar gheall ar an togra seo, bíodh sé sin de bharr seirbhísí níos srianta nó praghsanna níos airde.
i scríbhinn. − vótáil mé i bhfabhar na tuarascála seo toisc go bhfuil gá le beartas soiléir agus comhleanúnach in earnáil an iompair. tá cúrsaí iompair ag croílár an mhargaidh aonair: cruthaíonn earnáil an iompair poist, tugann sí cúnamh agus cabhair go ghnóthais ar fud na heorpa agus spreagann sí fás inbhuanaithe agus iomaíochas san eoraip. tá feidhmiúlacht níos fearr agus caighdeáin chomhshaoil níos airde á lorg sa tuarascáil seo. ní mór, chomh maith, tús áite a thabhairt don tslándáil i mbeartais iompair agus iarrann an tuarascáil ar an gcoimisiún staidéar a chur i gcrích ar chaighdeáin slándála agus ar fhorálacha maidir le tiomáint róghasta sna ballstáit d’fhonn an dea-chleachtas a chur chun cinn. i mo thuairimse, ní foláir spriocanna cinnte a leagan síos má tá torthaí suntasacha le baint amach. sa tuarascáil seo luaitear sprioc de laghdú 40% i mbásanna agus gortuithe troma d’úsáideoirí bóithre, coisithe agus gluaisteánaithe araon. tá éirithe go maith le héirinn sa mhéid seo cheana féin, agus moladh faighte aici i mbliana ó chomhairle sábháilteachta iompair na heorpa. ó 2001 i leith, tá laghdú 41% tagtha ar bhásanna ar bhóithre na héireann agus is féidir leis an tuarascáil seo cur leis an bhfeabhas sin.
in writing. − i support this report, which encourages member states to create efficient incentives, such as employment subsidies or insurance contributions for young people, guaranteeing decent living and working conditions. there should be better childcare opportunities for young parents, such as all-day schools, and incentives for employers, in both public and private sectors, to set up childcare structures, facilitating the possibility for young mothers to participate in the labour market. member states are also encouraged to ensure that all young people are individually entitled to a decent level of income that secures for them the possibility of creating an independent adult life. parliament suggests that the council and the commission come forward with a european youth guarantee securing the right of every young person in the eu to be offered a job, an apprenticeship, additional training or combined work and training after a maximum period of six months of unemployment. our youth could become a lost generation with the current crisis. europe needs to help young graduates and other young people entering the labour market for the first time to gain access to quality traineeships and jobs.
in writing. − i support this report, which aims at launching an action at eu level to protect atypical workers and further improve social dialogue both at national and eu level. it also aims at redefining flexicurity policies, which have in the past concentrated too much on flexibility and not enough on security for workers. atypical work includes part-time, fixed-term, temporary, teleworking, but also new types of contracts, such as ‘zero-hour’ contracts, and a growing trend in false self-employment. although the aim of these contracts is to introduce flexibility in the labour market for both employers and employees, studies show that they are often associated with precarious work and consequent precarious income. these workers are often denied important rights including the right to training or to join a trade union. our priority must be to fight all forms of precarious employment, and this priority has taken on special importance during this crisis. the crisis should not serve as a pretext for the development of more precarious employment. all workers should have access to equal treatment regardless of their employment contract. such rights as access to social security and training and the right to join a trade union should never be denied to any worker.
madam president, the fact that 64 of the 67 articles have already been agreed indicates that not only are people happy with what has been proposed but that they are absolutely delighted that somebody, somewhere, is taking control of a situation that ran amok for too long and caused the terrible situation we are now in. where ordinary people are concerned, they see these proposals as bringing hope where there was despair, control where there was disorder, honesty where there was corruption, and optimism where there was pessimism. certainly today’s message goes out loud and clear, not just to banks, regulators and speculators – and indeed weak governments – not that they are too big to fail but that from now on they are too big to fail to perform. if they fail to perform, they have somebody to answer to. that is a key message. i would like to conclude by saying that i have no problem with institutions being based in frankfurt. after all, germany has been a better model of financial propriety than many others.
madam president, in large part the problem caused in ireland by the banking and financial crisis can be traced to overpriced assets, particularly houses, but also other properties that banks loan money on. the european central bank has been enormously successful in controlling inflation in the european union, other than asset inflation. for two and a half years, at every meeting of the economic and monetary affairs committee with the president of the central bank, i raised the question of what could be done to control asset inflation. having low interest rates, where the interest rate is used as a method of controlling our inflation, is a very good instrument when used for lower interest rates or higher interest rates. the problem is that we ignore asset inflation. we have to find, under these new institutions, a way of bringing asset inflation into the calculations and of having an early warning system that deals with assets, particularly house price inflation, because this is at the centre of the problem in some of our countries and in my country in particular.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs and the commission. this is a specialist area but every single citizen in europe is pleased that parliament, the commission and the council are tackling the issue of excessive remuneration. we only know about the excesses of the banking sector because of the disasters that have happened. i would argue that, even if things were profitable in banking, the remuneration is way out of line from the general public perception. transparency is the key to all of this. when people have knowledge of what is happening, then we can take action on it. we published the payments of farmers, from the very smallest right up through the chain, and we regard this as transparent. in my view, bankers make profits from public money, from their shareholders and those of us who take out loans, so it is time to tackle this particular problem. i am not, however, convinced that the mindset of many bankers has changed at all and i fear that when this does eventually blow over, unless the commission is very strong, we will revert to type.
i listened this morning to a british mep saying that they would be far better off outside the european union, with the same arrangements as norway and switzerland. does the commissioner have a comment to make on that? have we arrangements with them that are too facilitating, encouraging them to stay outside the european union, while encouraging countries within the european union to leave the eu in order to have a similar arrangement?
was it not a british mep who said that they would be far better off outside the european union with similar financial arrangements, etc. to those enjoyed by switzerland and norway? does the commission agree with that statement? are we facilitating the likes of switzerland and norway too much, particularly in view of mr papanikolaou’s question? should we change our approach to those countries, so that they might be encouraged to come into the union, rather than the situation that exists at the moment where countries are saying that they would be better off outside the union, like switzerland and norway?
mr president, lest you – or colleagues – think that the questions on mercosur that i and other colleagues raised are inadmissible because they are not good questions, i believe they are inadmissible because the item is on the agenda for thursday. it is important to stress that we were not to know, as questioners, that this would happen. indeed we have been pushing for a debate on the mercosur bilateral talks. that is why i believe the question should be deemed admissible – and i believe it should be taken now because it is not just myself: there are many other colleagues who want to raise this issue, and i am sure others will take up the mantle. let me just put on the record why these questions have been ruled out of order at this question time, and urge colleagues to support us in our debate here on thursday.
mr president, my office did advise the president’s office that i would be taking mr crowley’s question.
i was more interested in the turkish cypriot athletes, if the commission wanted to comment on that, because as a sportsman myself i believe that there should be no boundary to the march of an athlete other than their own ability. if the situation exists, has the olympic council in particular done anything to try and alleviate it, because not everything can be left up to the commission?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. is the commissioner not concerned that the arab states in the middle east constantly fail to meet their commitments to humanitarian aid in the region? they have only done this once – i think in the mid-1980s – in the last 20 years, while hard-pressed taxpayers in the european union are meeting commitments in difficult times. what have you done to raise this question? secondly, i understand from mr ging’s evidence yesterday from unrwa to the joint committees, led by the development committee, that the efforts by non-governmental organisations did succeed in bringing to bear pressure on the israeli government in the area of humanitarian aid, which we have singularly failed to do. we all know what the outcome is going to be – it will be a two-state approach and we have the road map, but do we not need new ways of communicating our message to both the israelis and the palestinians in the region?
there was a second part to my question, which was about the need to communicate our message in a different way. ngos can go in, force their message onto the agenda, and then we are left in the situation where they are saying that peaceful means do not work. do we not need a new way of communicating our message?
madam president, iceland is uniquely placed to proceed quickly with negotiations and it has already adopted, as others have said, a significant part of the community acquis due to its membership of the eea. over 35 different aspects of eu policy are to be concluded, including the areas of competition policy, financial services, agriculture, fisheries. as chair of the european parliament delegation for relations with switzerland, iceland and norway and to the eea joint parliamentary committee, i strongly believe that, aside from the political negotiations that will now commence, it is of equal importance to further improve the political and civil society dialogue between the european union and iceland. by tradition, access negotiations are an open-ended process, with progress dependent on the good faith of both parties. this is why, for example, it is important that icesave issues remain a bilateral affair. my simple recommendation to the icelandic people, who may be apprehensive at this stage, is to await the final outcome before taking fixed positions. there is no question of bullying iceland, as arlene mccarthy has said. the icelandic people are an intelligent people and they will decide, after the negotiations are complete, where their future is.
madam president, i welcome iceland’s application. i am not aware of anybody putting a gun to their heads. i think they want to join the european union because, in the words of the belgian prime minister earlier, they see the european union as a guarantee of prosperity. the message has to go out loud and clear that there are no guarantees of prosperity. it is a two-way street. to paraphrase the words of the late us president john f. kennedy, we should say to member states and applicant countries: ‘ask not what the eu can do for you, but what you can do for the eu’. there is no gold mine out here that people can dip their hands into and become prosperous. i also welcome the application of iceland because, as other speakers have said, it will give us an opportunity to reform the common fisheries policy. i know in my own country people feel very aggrieved at this current situation, especially the fishing community. having iceland in, renegotiating the cfp can change that.
thank you, mr president. the proposed financial stabilisation mechanisms, although delayed, will be a major relief for countries in financial difficulty. however, it should be noted that these are only temporary measures. the crisis was a catalyst that showed that there are major, deep problems in the economic policies of many member states, especially those of the euro area, and a deep problem in the coordination of these policies. the idea of a european monetary fund can be discussed, but before creating such a new institution, i think it is necessary to complete the old institutions by improving their functioning. the main emphasis would be on the consolidation of the european union budget as well as on cohesion. it is essential to avoid a situation in which a series of support mechanisms would ensure the economic stability and positive credit ratings of euro area countries while leaving other member states, including my own, exposed only to the instability of international markets. thank you.
madam president, i oppose this resolution on iceland because it demands that the loans taken out by icelandic banks be repaid without specifying that this burden should not fall on the shoulders of the ordinary people of iceland. in effect, the kind of agreement demanded by britain and the netherlands would saddle the working people and taxpayers of iceland with a massive eur 3.7 billion. can i remind the european parliament that by referendum 93% of the population of iceland rejected the imposition on them of a crushing debt entered into not by them but by financial speculators. so let the speculators and the gamblers, who made obscene profits from this speculation, pay the price. the eu institutions, and the commission in particular, have been bullying countries to impose savage cuts in public services and living standards, while not lifting a finger to curb the inordinate power exercised by the financial markets. these, by the way, are the sharks that mr hannan and the british tory party defend while their government is now proposing to impose savage cuts on the british working class. on the left we have a responsibility to tell the truth and to warn the people of iceland that the eu institutions align themselves with the neoliberal policies that caused the crisis and are not their friends.
in writing. − while i was happy to vote on group lines for the majority of the report, i was unable to support amendment number 76 regarding gm labelling of animal products derived from animals fed on gm feed. the reason i could not support this amendment was because the european food safety authority (efsa) has carried out extensive research in this area, and concluded that labelling in this case is not warranted. such labelling would have a negative impact on european farming, which would be under pressure to produce and buy more expensive non-gm feed. more consultation is needed on this issue before we take such an important step.
in writing. − the regulation on novel foods should in my view exclude the issue of cloning of animals and products derived from this controversial and contentious technology. i accordingly voted to support a call on the commission to come forward with a separate proposal on cloning, with a view to regulating this issue – reflected in my support for the first part of amendment 37. to be consistent i abstained on the second part of amendment 37, which would prescribe to the commission the shape of its proposal on cloning. we need a thorough debate on the issue, to reflect citizens’ concerns about the welfare of cloned animals. i am conscious of the 2008 vote of the ep on cloning, which called for a ban on the use of meat from cloned animals. scientific advice from the food safety authority of ireland is that food from cloned animals is not on the market in ireland, nor is such food produced in ireland.
in writing. − the regulation on novel foods should in my view exclude the issue of cloning of animals and products derived from this controversial and contentious technology. i voted to support a call on the commission to come forward with a separate proposal on cloning, with a view to regulating this issue – as reflected in my support for the first part of amendment 37. to be consistent i abstained on the second part of amendment 37, which would prescribe to the commission the shape of its proposal on cloning. we need a thorough debate on the issue, to include concerns about the welfare of cloned animals. i am conscious of the ep’s 2008 vote on cloning, which called for a ban on the use of meat from cloned animals. while this may be the eventual decision of the commission, council and parliament, i did not want to prescribe the outcome. scientific advice from the food safety authority of ireland is that food from cloned animals is not on the market in ireland, nor is such food produced in ireland. however, the commission has said that non-food products such as embryos and semen from cloned animals may currently be on the eu market.
in writing. – i welcome the brok report as amended. it was essential to resist the proposal to subsume development policy as part of our foreign policy. we need an autonomous development service answerable to an autonomous commissioner for development and humanitarian aid. now, arising from this report, the commissioner for development is responsible for the whole cycle of programming, planning and implementation of the development cooperation instrument (dci) and the european development fund (edf). we need ensure the implementation is pursued in accordance with the spirit and letter of the agreement. there remain elements of the proposal that could give rise to different interpretations. however, the amendments introduced by the european parliament reinforce the commission’s authority over the operational budget and, therefore, guarantee parliamentary oversight and a clear line of democratic accountability.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, it is only two months since the revolutionary events in kyrgyzstan led to the overthrow of the corrupt bakiyev regime and the formation of a provisional government. unfortunately, however, as we pointed out at the time and just before the recent violence, one group of looters was merely replaced by another as reports of corruption and cronyism quickly emerged relating to elements in the new government. the recent violence directed against people based on their ethnic group is a further nightmare for the ordinary people. it was not spontaneous, but was whipped up. there are credible claims that bakiyev elements, in association with criminal gangs, were responsible. what is very significant is that uzbek and kyrgyz neighbours in many areas attempted to help each other in opposition to these pogroms. it is the coming together of working people and the poor – both kyrgyz and uzbek – that lays the basis for a solution, linked to radical demands to bring the wealth of the nation into public ownership so that it is utilised, for a change, for the benefit of the majority of the ordinary people, rather than for the corrupt elites that have dominated society up until now.
madam president, i would like to compliment baroness ashton for her good work in getting to grips with her brief. in the very short time she has been here today she has acquitted herself very well. my experience of hiv/aids goes back to a couple of years ago, when i worked on a voluntary basis in malawi. i saw there at first hand the devastation of hiv/aids amongst children, amongst adults. it is a country of 12 million people, with a life expectancy of 42 years and one of the highest prevalences of hiv/aids in the world, with almost three quarters of a million children suffering from hiv/aids. it is estimated that 86 000 people die per year from it, and another 80 000 at least get hiv/aids annually. only 50% off those who need art have access to it, so an awful lot needs to be done. three things must be done. one, medical care: firstly to try and prevent it, secondly to treat it when it occurs. secondly, education: so, again, people will know how to prevent it and also have a more compassionate attitude to those who have contracted it. thirdly – and baroness ashton referred to this – the elimination of certain practices based on the rights of certain mere individuals within tribes who have free access to do as they will with young girls and widowed women. this has to stop, and that has to be brought home to the tribes themselves. i think through the eu we might help in eliminating that traditional practice. finally, i also want to say that, in doing that, we need to work with the authorities on the ground. one thing i did notice in malawi: i used to buy the paper every day, and i read several articles which were critical of ngos because of their failure to work in conjunction with local groups. so to avoid what would be seen as intellectual or cultural colonialism, we work with the people to ensure them a better life and also to eliminate this scourge of hiv/aids.
madam president, this evening we have spent some time discussing what you might call the dark side of modern life. a few moments ago we were discussing the destruction of life throughout the world because of hiv/aids; now we have the same destruction of innocent civilians by cluster munitions. it is good i suppose, with new instruments being made available with the lisbon treaty, through baroness ashton as high representative, to at least try and bring solutions for these terrible problems. however, we will have to put our own house in order first and, as the speakers have said, only 11 of the 27 have signed the convention, which is not good enough. so the high representative will have to use her influence to ask the others: ‘why not?’ then try to eliminate the barriers to their signing up. only then can we move forward with what we spoke about today, the european union speaking with one voice to the rest of the world. if we cannot speak with one voice by putting our own house in order first, how can we go to the rest of the world saying that a new lisbon treaty has created new instruments and that we are going to lead in terms of giving a good example all around the world? so, put our house in order first, and then we can deal with the rest of the world.
mr president, i too wish to thank my colleague george lyon for his excellent work on this report. the cap has many challenges facing it and in an enlarged europe it is essential that the eu maintains a strong and properly resourced agricultural policy that will deliver for farmers, rural communities and society and will ensure food security. it is also important that there is no renationalisation of the cap through cofinancing. the common agricultural policy must remain a common european policy. over the past 50 years the cap has increased productivity, contributed to a fair standard of living for the agricultural community, secured the availability of supplies and provided consumers with quality food at reasonable prices. european citizens benefit significantly from agriculture in the form of food security, protection of the environment, combating climate change, sustaining rural communities and supporting farming families. for the cap to continue delivering for european citizens and to meet their demands, it needs to be strongly supported, and that of course means a strong budget. secondly transparency and proportionality should be central to the future cap. european agricultural policy should support farmers with the main aim of producing high-quality food and not hinder them or burden them with excessive administrative requirements and red tape. lastly, european farmers produce food to the highest quality and standards. all imports to the eu must be guaranteed to be produced to the same quality and standard as eu products. we also need to ensure a level playing field, fair competition and the future viability of european agriculture.
mr president, today’s discussion has been very encouraging from all sides of the house from an agricultural point of view. i particularly welcome the emphasis on encouraging young people into agriculture, which is absolutely vital; that there should be no renationalisation of the cap; that the commissioner said the two pillars should be maintained because without pillar one there will be no need for pillar two since it would be unprofitable to farm and therefore public goods would not be guaranteed; and, as mrs dodd said, we need to look at what we mean by ‘fair’, particularly taking into account varying costs and purchasing power right across the union. also, mr lyon alone referred to the historical basis. i think it is very important for farmers right now that a clear signal be sent to them as to what is likely to happen, so that they will not be left to wild speculation, not knowing whether to buy or sell stock based on the historic model. i would therefore welcome a clear signal on that from the commissioner as soon as possible.
mr president, just a point of order; i know other colleagues will share my concern about ‘catch the eye’ and you are all-powerful in this regard, but members who are on the agricultural committee, who have actually worked on this dossier for a long time and who were at this debate at its very inception, in my view, deserve to have their considered opinions heard, and i could not catch your eye because you would not look at me, although i caught six other eyes around you, mr president. could i ask, while i have the floor, the commission to comment on the possibility of less-favoured areas moving to pillar one? i will put in a written statement on this issue. i hope you support my point, colleagues.
in writing. – the common agricultural policy (cap) has the potential to offer solutions to many of the problems currently affecting european farms, and this is obvious in no eu member state more than in ireland, where there is an equal commitment to both secure a fair and full cap agreement and to move forward by implementing the changes necessary in 21st century farming. however, in order to secure the trust and commitment of europe’s agricultural community, the new cap needs to offer stability to farmers and a fair price, as is currently provided, for the goods which they produce. in return, european citizens will receive not just reliable, high-quality goods which are guaranteed to have been farmed to the eu’s high standards of practice, but will also benefit from the societal and cultural implications of the cap, such as those contained in pillar ii. above all, the eu needs to retain the trust of european farmers. the agricultural community is aware that change is on the way with this new agreement, and is currently poised to embrace it. in order to take advantage of this positive relationship, the institutions of the eu must ensure an agreement that is modern while being full and fair for all.
in writing. – i welcome this report which is the first step in examining the shape and nature of the common agricultural policy (cap) post 2013. this report reaffirms that there will be a cap post 2013, that it should remain a common policy and that its budget should be at least maintained at current levels. the report is firm on keeping the policy an eu one, rejecting attempts to re-nationalise it. farmers should take heart that this parliament understands their concerns. the cap post 2013 should support active producers and reward them for the food they produce and the many public goods they provide to society – including high animal welfare and environmental standards. market support measures will be essential in providing adequate safety nets against extreme market volatility which is likely to be a feature of the market in the future. only seven per cent of the eu’s farmers are under 35 years of age – this is a stark reminder that we need to ensure that the conditions exist to keep young people farming. it is essential that there should be a strong focus on young generations in the cap post 2013 so to provide for the development of agriculture in an innovative and efficient way.
author. − mr president, thank you for your clarification on the one minute, but can i just take this opportunity: a point of order. i was one of the authors of the first oral question. i am not at all happy that we now have a joint debate with two questions merging. i have tried since may to get the mercosur question on the agenda. i do not believe it should be a joint question, and i want to make my opposition to what has happened this morning absolutely fulsome. i do not know how this happened or why this happened. i am extremely unhappy about it. can i come back to this in the debate? i would like a clarification please, and i hope other colleagues will support me.
author. − mr president, it is not because it is summertime and we are all cross. it is just because we make very valid points and we take our jobs seriously. i am going to take 30 seconds because i have two blank pages. i have asked five questions of the commission. i do not intend to speak before i hear the answers. i will return at the end of the debate.
mr president, increased access to the eu market for mercosur would decimate national industries, particularly – in my case – in my major concern: the beef industry in ireland and elsewhere. this is not scaremongering. ireland exports around 90% of its beef production, and the beef quota sought by mercosur will be in direct competition with the irish beef industry. european farmers are operating under strict health and safety criteria. they adhere to all standards set for them and they guarantee high-quality, safe produce for consumers. in the past the commission continually assured european consumers and members of this house of the quality of imports into the european union. however, it was the farming organisations and meps which proved the commission’s position wrong on the issues of equivalence of quality and standards between imports and eu products, resulting in the number of exporting units in brazil being reduced from 3 000 to under 1 000. so, commissioner, my question is: given the past experience and the current sporadic nature of fvo missions, how can the commission guarantee consumers that all imports coming into the european union are of equable quality and comply with european union standards? can i just say, commissioner, that the track record does not offer great hope or great confidence for me for the future.
author. − mr president, there was wisdom in my decision to hold back my contribution until i heard what i hoped would be answers. i noted the time that the commission took – longer than any of us here in this chamber – and i regret that i did not get specific answers to five very direct questions. on the mandate, let me say that a mandate dating back to 1999 is way out of date and indeed most of the current parliament would not have been around in 1999. go back to the drawing board. the last speaker addressed some of the points that i would wish to make. as you did not address the impact assessment, other than telling us you have done an assessment, let me talk to you about some of the impacts on our agricultural producers. the mercosur meat forum, which represents brazil, argentina, uruguay and paraguay, urged the negotiators not to waste an extraordinary opportunity for them. contrast that to the delight, or rather to the fear and trepidation and anger, among eu producers. what will happen is there will be job losses across rural europe and a reduction in our food production capacity. look at the impacts of this on the environment, where europe regards itself as a leader in terms of climate change, land tenure problems in these countries, the chopping down of forests, the impact on indigenous populations and forced labour, and specifically on beef. for those of you who do not realise it, this is an attack on the high-quality end of our beef market. if we undermine that part of our market, we will destroy beef production and the market in the european union. the us and japan will not do a deal because they protect their producers and the high standards they value. this parliament imposes high standards of food production on our producers. we have failed to defend them in the past. the commission has been found wanting, and we cannot allow an agreement of this sort to happen to the detriment of eu production at a time when we are reforming our agricultural policy. there is no consistency between agriculture and trade policy. this parliament has to insist that there will be.
mr president, this morning, as you are aware, we are discussing the cap post 2013, and yet much of our discussion is being undermined by the reopening of negotiations with mercosur. where, i ask, is the consistency? a few weeks ago, after it was announced that you were reopening negotiations with mercosur, i had a short meeting with you. during that meeting you said that, if there was to be an ambitious deal, it was likely there would have to be concessions on agriculture. that is why i am extremely concerned. already we are talking about possible concessions on agriculture, and i would like you to clarify this. in your response you spoke about forthcoming summits on climate change. are you doing any assessment on issues such as carbon leakage, deforestation, loss of biodiversity in the context of further imports of agricultural products from mercosur countries? i come from ireland, and we export 90% of our beef. recent research has shown that brazilian emissions are between three and eight times higher than the irish equivalent. will any of this be taken into consideration in your impact assessments?
in writing. – these mercosour talks represent a potentially dreadful development for the future of european agriculture. i have to say that the commission’s attitude to the matter has been appalling. it would appear as if they are lining up a deal and will be using agricultural standards as a currency to buy a deal with mercosur countries. this attitude, i find, is appalling. it seems like farmers are the first victims of trade deals but the first to be blamed when trade deals do not work. i would like a more consistent and caring attitude from the commission to the future of the family farm sector. it is heartening to see so many agricultural meps here from all the groups supporting the protection of agriculture. dismissing parliament’s concerns of will not work, commissioner de gucht, and i would urge you to consult us more if you wish to have any potential agreement signed off by parliament.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, at the outset i want to congratulate mr cadec on producing this report. the decline in fish prices in recent years is directly and substantially caused by competition from imports of both wild and farmed fish. the producers of these products are not subject to the demanding regimes of eu operators in areas such as conservation and in areas such as hygiene standards. they enter the european market at a price that is uneconomic for european producers. this issue must be addressed in the context of the reform of the common fisheries policy, and i know that commissioner damanaki will address this. there is a huge reliance on imported goods, as has been pointed out by both commissioners, but when i look at my own country importing 46 000 tonnes per annum costing eur 181 million, there appears to be a lack of awareness among consumers of imported fish versus wild fish. if we are to resolve this problem, we must look at import substitution to reduce the 66% to 50% over a period of, say, 10 years, but in order to do that we must ensure that the red tape which is stifling the sector at the present time is simplified and that all dgs, and indeed all government departments and the various member states, work in tandem in the best interests of this sector.
mr president, the behaviour of members of this house today is disgraceful. it would not happen in any other parliament in the world. if there is no respect for the chair of the committee on fisheries and for fisheries in general, i propose that you adjourn the sitting until such time as people have respect for this house and stop having these meetings. (applause)
mr president, i do not want to delay the proceedings, and i am glad to see that mr cashman is in such good voice. i think it would be a good thing if we had a free vote across this house on issues of this kind. then they could determine the true view of parliament. we have one side that whips the house and only one side that allows a free vote. if we really want to determine the view of parliament on issues of this kind, there should be a free vote across the house. (applause)
a uachtaráin, vótáil mé in aghaidh na tuarascála maidir le seirbhís gníomhaíochta seachtraí an aontais eorpaigh. caithfear an tseirbhís gníomhaíochta seachtraí a chur i gcomhthéacs an chomhbheartais eachtraigh agus slándála agus na hathruithe a deineadh maidir leis an gcomhbheartas seo trí chonradh liospóin. cuireann conradh liospóin níos mó acmhainní ar fáil chun an tionscal armlóin agus míleata a threisiú san eoraip, agus de bharr an chonartha chéanna beidh sé níos fuiriste do thíortha móra na heorpa atá ina gcumhachtaí míleata misiún míleata a chur chun cinn. níl aon dabht ach sa todhchaí go mbeidh na cumhachtaí is láidre san aontas toilteanach dul i mbun feachtais mhíleata taobh amuigh den eoraip nuair a cheapann siad é seo a bheith ar mhaithe lena leas eacnamaíochta, díreach faoi mar a dhein stáit aontaithe mheiriceá. is é a bheidh sa tseirbhís gníomhaíochta seachtraí ná uirlis chun leas eacnamaíochta, polaitíochta agus míleata an chaipitleachais eorpaigh a chur chun cinn agus ní chabhróidh sé seo le síocháin dhomhanda, ach a mhalairt.
a uachtaráin, vótálas i bhfabhar na tuarascála breá seo ó alain cadec agus d’fhreastalaíos ar an díospóireacht sa pharlaimint níos luaithe ach ní raibh am ann don catch the eye, dá bhrí sin tá mé ag glacaint an tseans seo chun cúpla focal a rá. ar dtús, an chéad dualgas atá ar an aontas eorpach ná aire a thabhairt dár saoránaigh féin, go háirithe nuair a bhaineann sé le tionscal na hiascaireachta; mar tá siad ann le blianta agus tá a sinsear ann le céadta agus mílte bliain agus caithfear iad a chaomhnú. an dara rud, ba chóir go mbeadh an caighdeán céanna – nó níos déine b’fhéidir – ag táirgí a thagann isteach san aontas eorpach agus a bhaineann le táirgí a thagann ón taobh istigh den aontas eorpach. agus an focal deireanach, caithfimid i bhfad níos mó a dhéanamh chun aquaculture a chur chun cinn. chabhródh sé sin go mór chun an fhadhb seo a réiteach.
in writing. – i welcome the brok report as amended. it was essential to resist the proposal to subsume development policy as part of our foreign policy. we need an autonomous development service answerable to an autonomous commissioner for development and humanitarian aid. now, arising from this report, the commissioner for development is responsible for the whole cycle of programming, planning and implementation of the development cooperation instrument (dci) and the european development fund (edf). we need ensure the implementation is pursued in accordance with the spirit and letter of the agreement. there remain elements of the proposal that could give rise to different interpretations. however, the amendments introduced by the european parliament reinforce the commission’s authority over the operational budget and, therefore, guarantee parliamentary oversight and a clear line of democratic accountability.
in writing. − the european parliament has increased powers under the lisbon treaty, specifically in the area of agriculture policy. with extra powers come responsibility, and the endorsement of the lyon report on the future of the common agricultural policy (cap) post 2013 shows the parliament taking its responsibility seriously. we recognise that the cap must be maintained, that there must be an adequate budget and that food production is part of the bundle of ‘public goods’ which farmers provide and must be rewarded for. we voted to hold on to the two-pillar structure. market support measures are recognised as being an important part of the cap. we have rejected any attempts to renationalise the policy. the report calls for a move away from the historical payment system by 2020, calling for an area basis plus objective criteria to replace the current regime. the commission must come forward with ideas in this regard – but caution is required. the lyon report allows for national flexibility in aligning the cap to meet local, regional and national needs, including the need for the option to re-couple for specific reasons. our first priority is to safeguard the budget – when this is achieved we can begin to really debate the detail.
author. − madam president, this resolution, purporting to be about human rights in venezuela, exposes a massive hypocrisy among the right-wing parties in this parliament. the real agenda here is not to defend human rights but, in fact, to advance the overthrow of the government of hugo chávez in venezuela and to give succour to the right-wing pro-big-business opposition in venezuela, which still controls large swathes of the privately-owned media and industry and landed estates and includes those who attempted an open coup less than 10 years ago. the chávez government has carried out certain progressive measures, which have improved the lives of the most impoverished sections of society, but that has meant that chávez opposed the neoliberal economic policies which the european union and the united states have been forcing on many countries in latin america: policies such as deregulation, liberalisation and privatisation of their economies that primarily benefit the major transnational corporations based in the eu and the united states. that is why we have this campaign of vilification. i demand that this judge afiuni and all prisoners in venezuela are treated with dignity and are afforded a scrupulously fair trial. i and socialist colleagues of mine in venezuela, socialismo revolucionario for example, do have major problems with some aspects of the chávez policies: increasing tendencies towards bureaucratisation and a stalinist-type tendency to try to abuse and discredit opposition that comes from the left in venezuela and in the labour movement. we want to see the major resources in venezuela in public ownership but under a genuine regime of democratic workers’ control and management that will lay the basis of enough wealth and services to transform the lives of the big majority of the people of venezuela, ending horrific problems such as poverty and crime but also providing full democratic social and human rights for all.
madam president, when this was discussed last year, i spoke in favour of it. i am very pleased at the progress that has been made since and congratulate the rapporteur and the commission. i think it is very important for us in the european union to have good free trade agreements, particularly with countries whose political philosophy we can sympathise and agree with. i think a country like korea needs close links with the european union, especially when it is surrounded by some hostile regimes. certainly there are huge benefits. i think it is important that we emphasise those benefits to all our citizens, so that they can benefit. it is up to korea to do the same in their country. there are pitfalls, but i think the safeguards, as outlined by my colleague ms köstinger, can overcome those. i certainly welcome this agreement. i hope it will come into being as quickly as possible and we can go on to make agreements with other, similar countries with a philosophy something like our own, especially in asia, and especially with japan.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, first of all i want to thank the rapporteur, mr bové, for his work on this report. the food supply chain is extraordinarily complex, with so many different factors impacting on how it operates. i believe it needs delicate handling so that we do not end up enforcing the law of unintended consequences. there is a problem, a real problem. we know this from our own member states. indeed, a recent survey in ireland revealed that 74% of consumers believe that farmers do not receive a fair price for their produce. in ireland farmers receive approximately 33% of the retail price of milk, 50% of the retail price of beef and 20% of the retail price of cheese. but we also know this is true at eu level, as commission research explicitly shows that, since 1995, the only actors in the food supply chain whose share of the retail price has been decreasing are the primary producers, or the farmers. this cannot continue to happen. if it does, we will lose many of our primary producers, and then what happens to eu food security and food sovereignty? we must deal with these issues in the context of the cap. the food supply chain is not functioning properly and farmers are not receiving fair revenues. i disagree with mr fox on one point; there is, in my view, a case of market failure and some intervention is needed, but the crucial question is to know what interventions we should make. the commission, i believe, needs to investigate and, where necessary, take action against, anti-competitive behaviour. there is no doubt that contractual imbalances associated with unequal bargaining power have a negative effect on competitiveness in the food supply chain, particularly for the smaller actors. the asymmetry in bargaining power that exists between the different contracting parties, to which the commissioner referred, can often lead to a situation where larger and more powerful actors seek to impose contractual arrangements to their advantage. in simple terms, the small guys get squeezed. a very interesting point that has not featured in this discussion, but is of relevance, is that there is ample evidence that we are exporting our unfair trading practices to developing countries, where huge eu-based multinationals abuse their dominant position in the marketplace. in that context i believe we need a global response. i support voluntary contracts rather than compulsory ones, and the establishment in all member states of an eu ombudsman. on a personal level, i disagree with below-cost selling. finally, i am pleased to hear the comments of the commissioner and i applaud his proposals. this is a complex issue and requires a multi-faceted approach.
mr president, i should like to thank the rapporteur for this report. normally own-initiative reports are tame affairs and we do not get a chance to debate the issues, so i suppose it is positive that we are having a debate about what is now a very controversial and sensitive subject: the issue of fair prices and fair returns to farmers. the very fact that we have this report means that there is a problem in the marketplace for food, and that we do need political action to address it. i am concerned that there is some rowing back from that position over the summer months, but i certainly am not rowing back from my support for the bové report. while i have concerns about elements of it, i support the overall theme, which is that we need action to address concerns of producers and to ensure that they get fair prices. it is a simple fact that producers are price takers: they do not set the price that they get for their produce. would that they could, and if they were wise, perhaps they should keep food in short supply and we would all pay a dear price for that. but they are not price makers, they are price takers, and they need protection. i want to respond to some comments from the ecr colleagues. two words terrify me, and they are: light touch. the idea that light-touch regulation works for the food sector or for the banking sector – i am afraid it does not work. light-touch regulation that is not monitored will fail, so let us get away from that idea. the same goes for the idea that the free market works. we have to ask: who does it work for? as colleagues have said, agriculture - the food production chain - is different. it is not like any other sector. i would ask those who say that the market works because it provides the lowest possible consumer prices to answer the question: how long can that pertain? and is cheap food going to keep going in the long term? we need action. i support the bové report with some slight reservations, and i hope colleagues do likewise.
in writing. – this report won't automatically rectify the situation where farmers, as the primary producers, are in many cases exploited by processors and the retail chain sector. what it does is shine the light on unfair practices and the need for the commission and member state governments to act collectively to bridge the gap between the production cost of farmers and the cost when the product arrives in the shopping basket. when the report was debated in committee i highlighted the recent but now improved situation where milk producers were producing milk at a cost of 27 cents per litre while being paid 5 cents less than the production cost. what is important is that the report is not left gathering dust but that its recommendations are acted on.
mr president, the anglo irish bank has become the rotting corpse of corporate banking. its recklessness has led to a situation where it has received a bailout of eur 25 billion, or that is what we were told. it is now predicted to be eur 35 billion. the reality is that the irish government does not know. it is simply guessing. but what we do know is that it is costing the irish taxpayer eur 210 million per week. what we do know is that it has posted losses for the first six months of this year of eur 8.2 billion, and the situation is getting worse. the irish minister of finance is in brussels this week seeking eu permission to continue the bailout. i urge the commission, and the competition commissioner, to tell him as bluntly as possible that the bank should be wound up not in ten years, as the irish government wants, but in two or three years. it is an extravagance that we cannot afford.
madam president, security of energy supply is a very important part of the 2020 strategy. indeed, without it, it is hard to see how any of the targets can be met. obviously, countries will be hoping to achieve the renewable targets as set out in this agenda, but even if they do, we will still be dependent on third country supplies. at the moment most countries have unilateral arrangements. it is time to have a multilateral arrangement. this is facilitated under article 194 of the lisbon treaty. i would hope that we could reach a situation where, in the same way that we have a common agricultural policy and a common fisheries policy, we also have a common energy policy, especially in dealing with third countries – firstly to ensure security of supply, and secondly to ensure that countries like russia cannot exploit their advantage as they have done over the last year or two.
madam president, first i should like to thank mr portas for his work. being involved in my constituency in two areas where the european globalisation fund has been applied, i must say that by and large this is a very positive development. the commission very kindly came over and explained it to the workers at waterford crystal. one of them described it as a gift from the european union, and that is the way it was intended to be. however, the application of the fund has somewhat let people down in terms of their expectations. this is partly due to the state agencies, one of which – fás – is well known to the commission, as in the past it has appeared before the commission for the misapplication of funds. this has undermined their position with the workers. but we also tend to be too inflexible, particularly when people are trying to start their own business, and also on the matter of the time we give the fund. the start-date is the date of application, when it should be the date on which funding is granted. things like that need to be addressed. i hope the situation can be made more flexible.
mr president, i should like to say this to mr barroso: you are wrong. you cannot have sound proposals without analysis and retrospection. you are also wrong in that you cannot have both the fiscal consolidation that we are currently implementing and growth with jobs. we are failing to learn the lessons of history. the social buffers that were put in place following the 1929 crisis are being dismantled in virtually every member state. your speech emphasised the social market economy and social cohesion but your programme emphasises competition on the market and fiscal consolidation, which precludes a social market agenda. i want to see you using articles 3, 9, 14 and protocol 26 to their fullest legal and policy extent in order to develop a new social pact for europe. otherwise we will not rebuild the confidence of the people of europe and their unity behind developing the union of this europe.
madam president, it has been an interesting debate. i should just like to point out, however, that there is a crisis of confidence, and perhaps the president of the commission should acknowledge this very deeply. there is a crisis of confidence in democracy because the public believes that there has been a failure of elected representatives to regulate financial markets and all markets. i think we have to acknowledge our weakness in this respect. there is a belief that the european union can do better than individual member states, and that is certainly a strong belief in the member state i represent, ireland, where we are in the depths of an economic and banking crisis which requires deep analysis and scrutiny. unemployment is the biggest problem we face here, and if we now have strict enforcement of the stability and growth pact, i worry about the impact it might have on employment, with increasing numbers of young people disillusioned and in a state of crisis because of the situation. i welcome your comments on food security, biodiversity and sustainable growth, but be careful that doha and bilateral trade agreements do not destroy those noble objectives.
mr president, i also supported the bové report and can echo the comments of my colleague, mr jahr. this sends a very strong signal to everybody both in politics and along the economic chain that the parliament here means business. we had a vigorous debate last night. not everybody agrees with the entire contents of this report, but we are all in agreement that farmers cannot continue to be squeezed. the blood is literally being squeezed out of them at the moment. they are getting less and less of the final price that we all pay for our food in supermarkets and that situation has got to be stopped. we have got to look at the role of dominant players. we need an ombudsman for the food sector and we need to look at what the global market is doing to our food producers. we need to examine competition law. i am happy that this report got the debate and the support it deserved here in parliament. it is an important step to back up the rhetoric of recent times.
mr president, i am delighted to support this report. the title ‘fair revenues for farmers’ says it all, indicating that revenues, as of now and for a long time, have been unfair. thankfully, we are taking a step in the right direction. profits have to be doled out fairly between producers, processors and retailers, which is not happening at the moment. this report will at least send out the proper signal and we can go forward from there. when that is attained, i hope we will be able to get a strong and well-funded cap in place to ensure the viability of the family farm and the security of food supply into the future. we have made a good start today. hopefully we can deliver in due course.
mr president, i support this report and, in particular, want to draw attention to three paragraphs that i think are really important, given the rush to put older people into care rather than looking after them in the community or in their own homes. paragraphs 17, 19 and 25 are particularly encouraging in this regard. we need to make sure that there is a rights-based approach to the care of older people. we need to ensure that older people can live independently in their own homes and that there is support for them to do so. we should not allow profit to be made from older people being moved into the private care sector. i also want to draw attention to paragraph 13, reconciling work and care. could i suggest to this house and to many parliaments across europe – and indeed beyond – that we need to look at reconciling political work with care. i would love to do a survey on how many people in this parliament have a caring role as well as a political one. few and far between.
mr president, i was pleased to support this report. i was the only person who attended the debate last night who did not actually speak. the reason i did not speak was that i felt that in some ways the title was a misnomer. rather than talking about the role of women in an ageing society, we were really discussing the treatment of older women in a society that was ageing. obviously some of the points made were absolutely valid, particularly the disparity in pension payments between men and women, which is not acceptable in a democratic society. there is, however, a great and urgent need to have a further discussion on the role of both men and women in an ageing society. it needs to be factored in, particularly when it comes to budgeting. i do not think this has been done in the past. the economic implications of an ageing society have not been properly addressed. this must be done urgently if those plans are not to go askew.
mr president, as a former journalist, i was particularly happy to support this report. knowing both sides of this argument –previously as a journalist and now as a politician – i think there is a danger in equating information with journalism. we need to be very careful about that. my concern at the moment is that the economic crisis is putting a huge number of journalists out of work. it is happening in ireland. local newspapers and local radio stations are shedding staff and there is pressure to get rid of people. it means that the quality of journalism will suffer because people will not have the time and the resources to research stories and to give quality coverage to issues. i am afraid that europe tends to fall on the back foot because local stories are covered and european ones are not unless they have a relevance to the people in our member states. that is the challenge for elected members of this parliament – to make the work we do relevant back home, because it is very relevant.
in writing. − this procedure preserves the freedom of movement of workers within the community, which has been one of the great achievements of the eu.
i scríbhinn. − tá iarmhairt shuntasach ag an neamhshláine post atá sa margadh saothair faoi láthair ar chúinsí oibre daoine óga an aontais. cuirim fáilte roimh an mbéim a chuirtear sa tuarascáil ar rochtain ar an margadh saothair agus ar dheiseanna fostaíochta do dhaoine óga a fheabhsú agus maidir leis an méid atá ann faoi chláir oiliúna chun na críche sin a fheabhsú. ní foláir go mbeadh daoine óga in ann leas a bhaint as an margadh saothair agus cuirim fáilte ar leith roimh an bhfeabhas atá tagtha ar an gcaidreamh idir ionaid oiliúna, ollscoileanna agus an earnáil ghnó. cabhróidh an caidreamh sin le daoine óga agus iad ag dul isteach sa mhargadh saothair den chéad uair agus cruthóidh sé deiseanna fostaíochta do chéimithe agus do dhaoine óga oilte. ar an dara dul síos, tacaím leis an méid atá sa tuarascáil maidir le comhordú il-leibhéil a chur i bhfeidhm idir scéimeanna cistiúcháin eorpacha, náisiúnta agus réigiúnacha. ní thacaím, áfach, leis an bhforáil atá ann maidir le hathrú ó shásraí tacaíochta díreacha go forbairt tuaithe agus forbairt na hearnála talamhaíochta atá inbhuanaithe ó thaobh an chomhshaoil de, toisc gurb iad na sásraí díreacha an modh is fearr chun tacaíocht ioncaim a thabhairt do na feirmeoirí.
in writing. − i support this report which states that while optimising the job potential, special attention needs to be paid to decent work and employees’ health and safety. in order to anticipate change and avoid unemployment, it is essential to promote social dialogue and collective agreements (often not existing in the new sectors) together with the strengthening of social security, income support systems and proactive sectoral training initiatives, gender equality, and a socially inclusive labour market. the report builds on the international labour organisation (ilo) definition of green jobs according to which all jobs which promote sustainable development are green jobs. to ensure a socially just transition, workers should have a participative partnership role to play in the process. the report calls for the involvement of employees’ representatives in charge of greening the workplace - as defined by the ilo - to make workplaces, companies and industries more sustainable. as one of the promoted objectives, increased sustainability should be inserted into the financial perspective of various funds, including the structural funds and the cohesion fund. we need to put the creation of sustainable jobs at the top of the eu’s agenda with a progressive transition towards, and investment in, quality and environment-friendly jobs
in writing. − sustainability of energy is one of the main issues that societies in europe face today and it also has the potential to become one of the main sources of employment in the years to come. i support this initiative because it promotes job creation and protects the rights of workers.
i scríbhinn. − mar chathaoirleach ar thoscaireacht pharlaimint na heorpa don chaidreamh leis an eilvéis agus an lee, tá tuiscint mhaith agam ar na saincheisteanna a luaitear sa tuarascáil seo. tá ceithre bhallstát i gcomhlachas saorthrádála na heorpa: an eilvéis, an íoslainn, an iorua agus lichtinstéin. sa bhliain 1994, le síniú an chomhaontaithe maidir leis an lee, cheangail trí chinn de na ceithre thír seo leis an margadh inmheánach. dhiúltaigh an eilvéis, i reifreann, páirt a ghlacadh sa lee le 50.3% i gcoinne agus 49.7% i bhfabhar. dá bhrí sin, tá sé beartaithe ag an eilvéis caidreamh ar leith a bheith aici leis an gcuid eile den eoraip. tá thart air 120 comhaontú déthaobhach tugtha i gcrích ag an eilvéis leis an ae. baineann na comhaontuithe seo le saorghluaiseacht daoine, iompar de bhóthar, eitlíocht shibhialta, taighde eolaíoch, bacainní teicniúla ar thrádáil, margaí soláthair phoiblí agus cúrsaí talmhaíochta. is í an eilvéis an dara comhpháirtí eacnamaíoch is mó atá ag an ae agus tá breis agus milliún duine fostaithe ag comhlachtaí na heilvéise ar fud an ae.
i scríbhinn. − tháinig meath 12% ar mheánioncam feirmeoirí le linn 2009 agus tá méadú 3.6% tagtha ar chostais oibriúcháin. ní fada a bheidh feirmeoirí in ann leanúint le cúrsaí mar atá siad agus iad ag oibriú faoi réim an tslabhra soláthair bia, áit ina bhfuil méadú 3.3% sa bhliain – ó 1996 i leith – tagtha ar na praghsanna atá á n-íoc ag tomhaltóirí. is struchtúr casta é an slabhra bia nach bhfuil ag feidhmiú go héifeachtach faoi láthair. níl luach ceart á fháil ag na feirmeoirí ar an am agus ar an infheistíocht a chaitheann siad le bia atá ar ardchaighdeán a tháirgeadh. má táimid le brath ar fheirmeoirí chun cinnteacht an tsoláthair bia san eoraip a áirithiú, ní mór dúinn aghaidh a thabhairt ar luaineacht an mhargaidh agus ar an saobhadh sa slabhra soláthair bia. ba chóir go ndéanfaí ioncam cóir a áirithiú do na feirmeoirí. ní foláir praghsanna córa d’fheirmeoirí, trédhearcacht cheart sa mhargadh agus praghsanna miondíola córa do thomhaltóirí a ráthú. ní mór don choimisiún an slabhra bia a imscrúdú, agus tacaím go háirithe leo siúd atá ag iarraidh go ndéanfaí mionscrúdú ar imdháileadh na gcorrlach brabúis chun go n-aimseofaí an pointe beacht sa slabhra bia ina bhfuil drochiarmhairt iomaíochais á chruthú ag an saobhadh.
i scríbhinn. − cuirim fáilte roimh an tuarascáil seo – ar glacadh leis inniu – maidir le feabhas a chur ar fheidhmiú an tslabhra bia. níl aon amhras ann ach go bhfuil fadhbanna sa slabhra soláthair bia agus is feirmeoirí is mó atá thíos leis seo. ní mór na praghsanna atá á bhfáil ag feirmeoirí a leagan amach go soiléir agus go hoscailte. táimse ag iarraidh ar an gcoimisiún eorpach moltaí na tuarascála seo a chomhshnaidhmeadh leis an teachtaireacht maidir leis an gcomhbheartas talmhaíochta tar éis 2013, teachtaireacht atá le foilsiú níos déanaí i mbliana.
in writing. − i voted for this report as it is sickening to see farmers being ripped off wholesale by larger multiples. wealth should be re-distributed fairly along the food supply chain. i hope the commission acts swiftly and proposes a mechanism to deal with the issues it raises. this initiative, if enforced, would greatly help the livelihood of the farming community in ireland and it is why i support it.
i scríbhinn. − tacaím go hiomlán lena bhfuil sa tuarascáil seo maidir le giorrú a dhéanamh ar an tréimhse ama a thógann sé cúnamh airgeadais ón gciste eorpach um choigeartú don domhandú a íoc le hoibrithe a chaill a bpost de thoradh an domhandaithe nó na géarchéime eacnamaíche. ní foláir cúnamh ón gciste seo a chur ar fáil go pras agus i mbealach éifeachtach ionas go rachaidh sé chun leasa na n-oibrithe seo. is rí-léir gur cheart an tréimhse ama do chur i bhfeidhm an chiste seo a laghdú go suntasach. tá bearta soiléire sa tuarascáil seo maidir le laghdú a dhéanamh ar an tréimhse ama idir an tráth a ndéantar an t-iarratas agus íoc an airgid, rud a fheabhsóidh feidhmiú an chiste. ina theannta sin, cuirim fáilte roimh a bhfuil ann maidir le strúchtúr cumarsáide agus riaracháin don chiste a chur ar bun ar an leibhéal náisiúnta, rud a thabharfadh eolas níos fearr don dream lena mbaineann faoi stádas agus faoi chur i bhfeidhm an iarratais agus faoin bpróiseas a bheidh i gceist i ndiaidh dheonú an airgid.
i scríbhinn. − tá ag éirí go maith leis an gciste eorpach um choigeartú don domhandú (cecd) san iarracht dul i ngleic le tionchar na dífhostaíochta ar an mórchóir in éirinn agus san eoraip. bunaíodh an cecd sa bhliain 2007 mar fhreagairt ar fhadhbanna agus dúshláin an domhandaithe. is fiú eur 500 milliún sa bhliain an tionscnamh seo. cuireann sé cabhair agus cúnamh ar fáil do réigiúin inar cailleadh breis agus 1 000 post de thoradh athlonnú comhlachtaí de dheasca athruithe i gcúinsí domhanda. tá an taontas eorpach ag dul i ngleic an athuair le fadhb na dífhostaíochta in éirinn. tá an cecd agus ciste sóisialta na heorpa araon ríthábhachtach chuige seo.
in writing. − with the recent upheavals that have occurred in the financial world and the job losses that were as a result of this, the area of re-skilling and re-integration into the workforce is of vital importance to the area of job creation and i welcome the european globalisation adjustment fund revaluation as a eu social policy instrument. i would however call for more flexibility in the process once the application form is complete and for more consultation with the workers themselves when egf plans are being formed. what has happened in ireland regarding dell and waterford crystal workers should not be repeated.
in writing. − this initiative was instrumental in setting up a judicial cooperation in civil and commercial matters
i scríbhinn. − faoi chonradh liospóin tá an pharlaimint níos tábhachtaí anois ná riamh i saol laethúil mhuintir na heorpa. dá bhrí sin, tá sé rí-thábhachtach go bhfeabhsaítear an caidreamh atá ann idir an pharlaimint, na feisirí de pharlaimint na heorpa, na hinstitiúidí eorpacha agus muintir an aontais. tá sé léirithe ag suirbhéithe i ndiaidh a chéile de chuid eurobarometer go dteastaíonn ó mhuintir an ae eolas níos fearr a fháil ar chúrsaí an ae, agus go dteastaíonn uathu feabhas a chur ar a n-eolas eorpach. mar atá ráite sa tuarascáil seo, chun go mbeadh baint níos gníomhaí ag saoránaigh na heorpa le cúrsaí eorpacha ní mór eolas ábhartha soiléir a chur ar fáil trí bhíthin na meán cumarsáide agus na n-ionad cumarsáide. cuirim fáilte ar leith roimh a bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir le srian a chur le ‘béarlagair an ae’ agus le caint atá rótheicniúil. ní foláir don eolas a chuireann na hinstitiúidí ar fáil do shaoránaigh an ae a bheith soiléir, sothuigthe agus ábhartha. chuige seo, tacaím leis na éileamh sa tuarascáil go leanfadh an coimisiún leis an gcur chuige ‘áitiúil’ atá i bhfeidhm aige, cur chuige atá dírithe ar infheictheacht an ae ar leibhéal áitiúil a fheabhsú.
mr president, my point of order is that question time was supposed to start at seven o’clock. am i to take it that my question to the commissioner for development will not be reached?
member of the commission. − mr president, i will at least try not to say anything stupid! firstly, in answer to the additional question by mr paleckis, the financing, as far as i can see, will be a national matter, because responsibility will remain with the member states. it is the legal framework that the european union is going to put into place. my assumption would be that the financing will remain with the member states unless, in the legislation and together with the budgetary authority, a different decision is taken. regarding the local authorities, i would think that this has to do with the distribution of power in the member states concerned. if authorisations have to be delivered by the local authorities then, to a certain extent, they will be part of the decision-making process. however, it could also be that in a member state there is a provision by which the authorisations in this respect – for building activities for example –would be at a national level. that all remains to be seen, within the legislation that we are soon to propose to you.
member of the commission. − the commission takes the issue of child labour very seriously. in june, the ilo indicated that some 200 million children work. although there is a downward trend, which is encouraging, that is still 200 million too many children who are working when they should be receiving an education. it is important to realise, however, that only around 5% of these children work in export-oriented sectors. according to ilo data, the vast majority work in subsistence farming or as domestic workers. that is why the eu tackles child labour through a comprehensive policy approach that focuses on its root causes: poverty and a lack of access to quality education. this approach was set out in this january’s commission staff working document on combating child labour, which was endorsed by the council on 14 june. i refer you to both documents for more specific details about that policy approach and its future development. taken together, these actions contribute to the internationally agreed goal of eliminating the worst forms of child labour by 2016 and eventually ending all forms of child labour. many eu companies, including smes, subscribe to corporate social responsibility schemes, through which they undertake to ensure that child and forced labour are not used in their supply chain. the commission is currently exploring ways of better integrating human rights issues into eu corporate social responsibility policy. in addition, smes can make use of a number of private sustainability assurance schemes operating within the eu, which, depending on the criteria utilised by the scheme in question, may require that child and forced labour are not used in the production of goods and services bearing the label associated with that scheme.
commissioner, for some time child labour activists and ngos have been calling for the issue of child labour to be mainstreamed into all development policies rather than to be treated as a distinct issue, as is the case at the moment. what progress is the commission making in this regard? does the commission have any specific policy in place to introduce, or to reintroduce, working children into the education system?
member of the commission. − with regard to the additional question by mr aylward, i might add that respect for the eight core ilo conventions, which encapsulate the fundamental rights of workers, forms an integral part of eu trade policy, be it in the ambit of the unilateral gsp+ scheme or of bilateral and regional arrangements. these include convention 138 on minimum age and convention 182 on the worst forms of child labour. more recent agreements include provision for an overview of the implementation and monitoring of compliance involving intergovernmental bodies, social actors, dialogue and, if necessary, an independent review resulting in public reports and recommendations. our policy is not to withdraw trade preferences. these can be withdrawn, and we can take action, but we believe – especially given the fact that only a very minor percentage of children are working in export-oriented businesses – that we should work pre-emptively. for example, we have several schemes with countries such as india, whereby we take care of the children and make sure that they have an education. with respect to the additional question on smes, i agree that those schemes, even if voluntary, can add a lot. however, as i indicated in my initial answer, we have also seen that a lot of smes are ready to subscribe to schemes under which child labour cannot be part of the supply chain, and to put this into practice.
member of the commission. − mr president, the 30 june communication on enhancing economic policy coordination for stability, growth and jobs is a follow-up to the communication we released on 12 may and presents concrete tools for enhanced economic policy coordination. we propose a more effective surveillance framework with improved fiscal surveillance, stronger surveillance of macroeconomic imbalances and a more rigorous ex-ante coordination of economic policies under the ‘european semester’. our proposals have been well received in the council, by the herman van rompuy taskforce and by parliament, as well as in the media. the conclusions of the european council of 17 june gave a clear endorsement to our suggestions and encouraged us to go ahead with making better economic governance in europe a reality as soon as possible. the commission will adopt the necessary formal legal proposals in the course of this month. it will count on the council’s and the european parliament’s support to adopt the necessary legislation and make these proposals operational as soon as possible. as part of the legislative package we will propose a new toolbox of sanctions and incentives for compliance with the stability and growth pact. strengthened enforcement mechanisms for fiscal rules are a central element of our proposals, key to the credibility of our fiscal framework, and an important topic under discussion in the taskforce. as outlined in the 30 june communication, we will propose in the first stage a new system of sanctions for the 16 euro-area member states on the basis of article 136 tfeu and for, firstly, the preventive and corrective arms of the stability and growth pact and, secondly, the corrective arm of the surveillance of harmful macroeconomic imbalances. this reflects the greater interdependence and stronger constraints in the monetary union. the sanctions will be complementary to those already foreseen by the stability and growth pact but intervene at an earlier stage of the excessive deficit procedure and more automatically. to improve compliance in all 27 member states we plan, in the second stage, to introduce the possibility of suspension and cancellation of current and future financial appropriations from the eu budget. this would concern expenditure related to cohesion policy, the common agricultural policy and the fisheries fund. hence, the objective will be to use the eu budget as complementary leverage to strengthen incentives for compliance with the stability and growth pact requirements.
thank you commissioner for your rather broad answer. i did read all of those details in the communication. my question was more specific. citizens have read of this possibility of sanctions. how can you penalise member states and their governments without penalising their citizens? i think that is the core of my question. if you are going to stop the eu budget flowing to member states, to the cap or to cohesion, the question is: who will suffer from that decision? you need to clarify that point in the chamber this evening.
commissioner, i agree you need rules when you are part of a common currency, but the stability and growth pact was put in place at a very different time. we have come to the verge of a global collapse, and while some countries are recovering better than others, certain countries – like my own – are still struggling. it seems to me here, that we have all stick and no carrot. you are talking about a toolbox of sanctions, but as my colleague mrs mcguinness said, these will impact on citizens. i do not believe it is the way for the commission to proceed when some countries are still on the verge of economic collapse.
the new challenges which are now being faced by young people in accessing training and employment require new initiatives to target that particular group. one thing which i do not see in any of the proposals coming from the commission is the use of the internet and social networking sites as a way of trying to attract people to apply for training or to put their ideas forward. are there any new initiatives coming from the commission with regard to that?
may i thank the commissioner for his response. in these stringent times, would the commissioner agree with me that it is necessary to communicate to the public what is successful in terms of the development budget we are spending so that we can ensure continued support for this? secondly, would he agree that, with gni going down, it is inevitable that contributions will go down, but that they should not go down as a percentage of reduced gni in such a way that the developing world is penalised twice? will the commissioner highlight this matter in new york?
thank you, commissioner for facilitating my question. this is a very important summit, and i was pleased to learn about the issues that will be addressed, whether it is growth, jobs, investment, energy, the environment or peace and security, but it is important also, as you have said, that there will be concrete deliverables. this is an opportunity for me to ask you, commissioner, to use your good offices to impress upon all the eu member states the importance of overseas development aid, and to impress upon them that now, at a time of recession, it is very simple to reduce the level of aid, but that they should not do that.
madam president, the more mature a society is, the greater the freedom of expression and the greater the freedom of the press, but the utopian ideal of total freedom will never be realised as long as human nature remains as it is. firstly, governments will, as far as they can get away with it, try and control the messages that the media are delivering. there have been plenty of examples given of that here this evening. that will not change in the future. secondly, media owners and individual editors will also try to reflect their agenda in the communications that they publish, and individual journalists will have no choice but to comply, or be out of a job. then we have the other side of the coin, where unscrupulous journalists operate on the basis of never letting the truth get in the way of a good story. this is a multifaceted problem. it is a problem that will never go away. it is a battle that must constantly be fought. that battle must be fought forever or it will never be won.
madam president, the fact that we are having this discussion is very timely, because this is a big problem on our doorstep. i would like to thank ms lynne for outlining in particular the problems that exist in this so-called civilised society in the abuse of the elderly. the commission has also given a very rounded contribution, outlining the goals, the challenges and the solutions. firstly, i think we should look at this as an opportunity, an opportunity to allow people to work beyond the normal time and age as of now, and secondly, particularly to travel and to contribute to tourism in the off-season. then of course we have the challenge of caring for people in their homes for as long as possible, and then in institutionalised care. but the financial provisions have not been factored in at all yet, and a huge amount of work must be done if we are to reach a situation where the elderly are cared for properly in the years ahead.
mr president, i want to congratulate elizabeth jeggle for her work on this issue of testing and the use of animals. i voted in favour of this, because i believe it is the most pragmatic solution to a problem that we have in updating the 1986 legislation. can i say that this is important for animal welfare, but also for the continuation of research in the european union. we risk pushing scientists and research into medical conditions outside our borders where there is less regulation, so while we do need to improve the regulation and indeed the welfare of animals used in testing in research institutions and universities, we also need to guarantee that the research can continue. we talk all the time about encouraging young people into science and spending more on research and innovation, and this does involve the use of animals. but let us protect them to the best possible extent, and we will do that with this legislation.
mr president, i would like to congratulate elizabeth jeggle, and all of those involved, in reaching this balanced compromise on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. indeed, the european animal welfare movement welcomes the prompt adoption of the agreed compromise. i believe the adopted text will bring about direct and tangible animal welfare benefits while at the same time it will allow essential medical research to continue in europe, which hopefully will deliver new, innovative and effective treatments. the compromise that we have reached today is also an important step towards harmonising european regulations on animal experimentation and that in itself, i think, is very important. finally, it is a humane response which has established upper threshold limits for pain, and it does put an obligation on the commission to inspect animal testing institutions where there is due reason for concern.
mr president, the real issue surrounding mr őry’s excellent report on the employment guidelines is whether the council will take the recommendations into consideration. last night i was pleased to hear the belgian presidency commit to looking at the parliament’s recommendations. i would say to the council that it is crucial that they take on board many of the really excellent recommendations in mr őry’s report – in particular, i think, those referring to improved governance. everybody agrees that the open method of coordination was certainly not effective with regard to the lisbon agenda. we need to ensure that the targets and sub-targets contained are monitored and evaluated against the eu 2020 objectives. i am pleased that amendment 62 was accepted as, if implemented, i think that will help to ensure that there is a reduction in regional disparities. finally, i fully support the concept that employment-enhancing growth should be based on decent work, as promoted by the ilo.
mr president, i echo your words and compliment ms mazzoni for her work on this resolution, which i fully support. in all the hustle and bustle of this week in strasbourg, the one meeting which was the most important was, sadly, the one that i had the least time for. that was the women from iran, who are here looking for support for their colleagues and for this resolution. but i was very glad to meet with them and to make a commitment of support. it is staggering – but perhaps noteworthy – that we received many more e-mails on the issue of animal welfare than we did on this issue about human life. i just make that remark for what it is worth. i think we should say, because we were asked to use this word in particular, that many of the women who are condemned to execution by stoning and otherwise are condemned for the crime of mohareb, which literally means someone at war with god. but actually, all that these women have done is to protest against a dictatorship in their country and to desire to bring about change for the better for themselves and to restore their rights in that particular country. so i stand here in support of those women. there is very little that i can do, but i think this parliament, in its huge vote today, speaks volumes, and i hope it will make a difference.
mr president, as you rightly pointed out, the virtual unanimity of the vote here today is very significant. i was pleased to be one of those who voted in favour of the resolution. let me say, firstly, that i am not the protesting type. i have certainly never worn a t-shirt of this nature before, but the disproportionate proposal to penalise somebody and punish them by death for an alleged offence is so despicable, so revolting, so barbaric, so disproportionate and so nauseating that i felt i had to do something. hopefully the message will get through to the iranian authorities that this is outdated and it must end. political pressure and public protest have brought an end to capital punishment in many countries. hopefully our protest here today will end this appalling situation. as mr kelam said, 300 people have already been stoned to death, which is appalling. this must end and we must do everything we can to ensure that it does.
in writing. − i supported this consultation because i feel it is very important for the member states of the eu to ensure that adequate minimum incomes are achieved above the poverty line. it is also vital to strengthen the equal treatment and equal pay for equal work clause whenever possible.
i scríbhinn. − níor chóir glacadh ná seasamh riamh le pionós báis an chlochta. muinním údaráis na hiaráine an pionós sin a gearradh ar sakineh mohammadi-ashtiani a chealú agus athbhreithniú a thabhairt ar an gcás.
mr president, could i first of all respond to the notion that outside interference is in some way damaging to peace processes. if one were to follow that logic, the european union, and indeed the world at large, should turn its back on every single conflict around the world and pretend it is none of its business. that is a nonsense argument, mrs dodds, and i urge you to review your view on it. it is entirely legitimate for this parliament to examine potential threats to freedom of speech and freedom of association in any state with which we have a trading relationship. our treaties oblige us to engage in trade on an ethical basis. israel, which has a very close trade relationship with the eu, cannot be exempt from such scrutiny. i welcome the changes that have been made so far to the ngo funding bill in the knesset law committee, owing no doubt to the international pressure that has been mounted, but it is still only at the first stage. it still has to go back to committee and go through a second and a third stage. we do not yet know what the final version will be like. however, the bill as it remains is a draconian and unbalanced bill which will discriminate in favour of private donations from foreign entities, which will not have to disclose the source or purpose of such donations. either this is a bill about transparency, or it is not. if it is, then it has to be complete transparency. i am sceptical regarding the final outcome and believe that parliament, the commission and the council must maintain their vigilance and make it clear that legislation, if passed, which goes beyond balanced transparency requirements will have a bearing on our relationship. i would like to comment briefly on the proposed boycott legislation, which will attempt to criminalise anybody who supports a boycott of the sale, in europe, of goods produced illegally in the illegal settlements. i would regard that as a breach of the right to political action. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
mr president, i would not make the nonsensical statement that only outside pressure can encourage parliamentarians to change their minds, but it is obvious that international pressure does help to change minds. i know that to be the case in ireland. in the peace process in ireland it helped to change the minds of the ira and of sinn féin. obviously, in ireland, we also exerted internal pressure on them, but international pressure too is, of course, an important part of the democratic process. we are, after all, one world.
mr president, could i suggest to mr tannock that it is not helpful at all to ignore the reality that settlers deliberately choose sites where they have good water supply, and that this in turn deprives palestinians of that water supply. they are not the only problem in relation to water in the area, but they certainly do play a role in it. the jordan unfortunately is being deprived of something like 98% of its flow because it has been diverted by other states, including israel. it is a transboundary river, with something like four states, including the palestinian west bank, bordering that river. potentially, if it is handled right and if europe plays its role properly in the area, it can be a source of reconciliation through the promotion of joint management of what is an important cultural, religious and indeed economic resource for the region. to take the line that you take, mr tannock, that everything that involves some minor criticism of israel is in some way an attack on israel is simply to ignore reality. there are also others there who have diverted water. the friends of the earth, for instance, pointed out at a recent seminar organised by my group, the socialists and democrats, that the jordan river once carried an average of 1.3 billion metric metres of fresh water to the dead sea. that has now been reduced to 20-30 million annually. by the end of next year, it could be a dead river unless we take action.
it is most disappointing to hear, in the minister’s reply, of the lack of progress in achieving the objectives relating to biodiversity that were set down. however, given the fact that rural development measures and the common agricultural policy can significantly contribute to the strengthening of biodiversity, what measures can the council put in place to support european farmers, who are the greatest protectors of the environment, in their vital role of further protecting the environment and biodiversity?
the answer was detailed because the question was. i thank you for that, and particularly your comments about mercosur. i do hope that the commission, and indeed the council, registered the concerns of parliament in our debate on the issue. your response to my colleague, mr aylward, on biodiversity and your comments about the agriculture budget lead me to ask you about the council’s view. i gather that seven members of the council want to cut next year’s budget, which does not augur well for the future of the agriculture budget post-2013. i would appreciate a comment.
madam president, given the extraordinary decision by the commission to reopen the mercosur talks, can the minister indicate if any consideration or assessment is being carried out by the council on the detrimental effects these decisions will have for our european farmers and, in particular, farmers in my own country, ireland, who depend on the 90% export of their beef products, which are produced to the most exacting standards imposed by the commission and are not applicable in mercosur states?
mr president, this is an interesting subject. freedom of movement should be an essential right for all europeans. many workers from across the union have benefited from that freedom and many countries have benefited accordingly. in my own country, during the celtic tiger years, we benefited hugely from the influx of labour, particularly from the eastern countries. they made a great contribution and helped to create the celtic tiger, but now the celtic tiger is dead and ireland is seen as a negative country. many people are leaving the country and many young people in particular cannot find employment. looking at it in the long term, the only way to guarantee true freedom of movement of workers would be to have common remuneration rates right across the european union and common social benefits. that is a long way off and, particularly in these recessionary times, it is almost foolish to be talking about it. ultimately that is the way to guarantee the situation and ensure the freedom that we long to achieve.
mr president, personally i am not at all convinced of the necessity, the morality, the safety or the traceability of cloned animals. as regards necessity, we have for years been trying to encourage extensive rather than intensive production, and there are enough ways to ensure natural reproduction, and other ways of guaranteeing a growth in the animal population, if so required. as regards morality, as mrs sommer said, if it is morally acceptable to have cloned animals, then it is only going to be a matter of time until it is morally acceptable to have cloned human beings. we have enough oddballs in the world already without cloning more! mr staes mentioned safety, and i agree with him. how can one conclusively say at this stage that the offspring of cloned animals are safe for human consumption? i do not think one can. finally, on traceability, one of our great achievements in the european union, as anne delvaux said, is that we can trace food from the stable to the table. what are we going to do now, guarantee that we can trace it from clone to home? i do not think we should be doing this. our aim should be to eliminate cloning, not to facilitate it.
mr president, the early bird catches the worm and the late bird catches the eye, so thank you for facilitating me. i come from ireland, where the potato is very dear to people’s hearts because, prior to the great famine, it fed the population. when the potato blight came in 1847, four million out of eight million people died as a result. ever since, no meal has been complete without a potato or a ‘spud’ as we call it in ireland. so anything that jeopardises the future of potato farmers would send a shiver down the spine of irish people. individuals here have spoken – and i share their concerns – about the future of the potato industry and, as the commissioner pointed out, in the newly funded cap, post-2013, the potato sector would have to be given very careful consideration. that is quite correct. finally, mr president, i just want to say thank you for your chairing of the session tonight. if i was not against cloning, i think you yourself would be worth cloning!
in writing. – impact assessments carried out by the commission should be about ensuring that we produce good quality legislation, and therefore we all have a strong interest in making sure that they themselves are of good quality. the main principles guiding these impact assessments should be: that they act as a guide to law making, and must not replace or hinder the role of the politically accountable decision makers; and that any cost-benefit analysis should contain not only economic considerations but also social, health and environmental impacts. as regards the question of having an independent impact assessment board, i believe the best method would be to ensure that it contains multiple stakeholders with their interests declared, whereby conflicts of interest are avoided. i do agree with the rapporteur that that the high percentage of assessments (over 30%) that are initially rejected by the board testifies to the need for the commission departments to improve their quality further. the board of course should only inform the process and not make any political judgements. i would finally call on the chair of the board to appear before the environment committee on an annual basis following the publication of the iab annual report.
mr president, the internal market in postal services will be completed by december of this year. many people living in rural areas – many of whom i represent – and many employed in the services in ireland and in europe have real, genuine concerns. postmen and postwomen play a vital role in irish life. i should like to take this opportunity to thank them and pay tribute to them for the role they play, often going beyond the call of duty. the postal service, as we all know, is more than an economic sector. it is an integral part of our social fabric in rural areas, particularly in my own country, as 40% of our population live in those rural areas. postal workers are a great source of social contact for many elderly people and those living in isolated communities. it is therefore vitally important that the commission ensures that the universal service obligation contained in this legislation is fully respected. i take note of the comment by the commissioner in relation to the obligation of national regulators. the commission must guarantee that mail will be collected from and delivered to customers everywhere throughout the union, including the most rural areas, five days a week in accordance with the legislation. i am pleased to hear the comment from the commissioner on the users’ dialogue group which of course will involve the citizens, businesses, the unions and parliament. we had a visit here from a delegation of european postal workers some time ago. i believe that we have an obligation to represent them and, more importantly, to represent the citizens and ensure that they have the universal service which they had many years ago, long before the economic developments in the union.
commissioner, you told us that the directive gives leeway to member states when implementing it in order to comply with social requirements, but i am asking you, as commissioner, to make sure that those social requirements are fully respected. yesterday in this parliament we voted through the employment guidelines and we called for decent work. yet all over europe decent jobs are being lost in the postal service. they are being replaced by precarious low-paid jobs and we know that the liberalisation of postal services is driving this agenda. there is real concern among citizens and among postal workers about the loss of jobs and i do not think that we in this parliament and the commission can continue to ignore that fact. as a representative of a largely rural constituency, i have received many queries about the obligation to ensure the collection and delivery of postal items five days per week. once again, you have a responsibility in this area. finally, i agree with many of the other speakers that we do need a moratorium on the full implementation of this directive. in the meantime… (the president cut off the speaker)
i scríbhinn. – tá spriocdháta chur i gcrích mhargadh inmheánach na seirbhísí poist ag druidim linn. dá mhéad iomaíochais bhreise a chruthóidh an treoir seo i mbailte agus i gcathracha, níl aon amhras ann ach go ndéanfaidh sí léirscrios ar an tseirbhís a bhíonn ar fáil faoin tuath. tá cónaí ar 40% de mhuintir na héireann faoin tuath agus tá sé ríthábhachtach go gcuirtear seirbhís phoist ar fáil dóibh siúd atá ina gcónaí i gceantair iargúlta. go minic ní bhíonn brabús ar bith ag baint le seirbhísí poist i gceantair dá leithéid. conas a bheidh an coimisiún in ann a chinntiú nach mbaintear seirbhísí riachtanacha ó phobail bheaga iargúlta agus, faoi oibleagáid na seirbhíse uilíche, go leanfar ag bailiú agus ag seachadadh an phoist i gceantair iargúlta? ós rud é gurb iad na seachadtaí ó ghnó go gnó agus na seirbhísí poist i mbailte agus i gcathracha is brabúsaí, cad is féidir a dhéanamh chun a chinntiú nach ndéanann comhlachtaí nua faillí ar chustaiméirí agus i seirbhísí i gceantair iargúlta nó neamhbhrabúsacha, nó nach ndéanann siad neamhchúram díobh? d’fhéadfadh sé go mbeadh iarmhairt shóisialta shuntasach ag an treoir seo ar phobail agus ar oibrithe poist ar leith. ní mór aghaidh a thabhairt ar na saincheisteanna seo sular gcuirtear an treoir i bhfeidhm.
mr president, i supported the resolution, which included the european united left group as a signatory. in singling out the roma community in france for victimisation and expulsion, french president sarkozy and his government have displayed the most disgusting cynicism. the crude use of a minority community of oppressed people to divert attention from the disastrous economic and social policies is what this is all about. mr sarkozy’s policies have resulted in mass unemployment in france and marginalisation of many working class communities. mr sarkozy’s government is now systematically attacking the living standards of french workers and is attacking the pension rights of the french people. mr sarkozy and his government are the agents of the french bourgeoisie and international big business and are desperately trying to use a vulnerable community as a scapegoat to divert attention from their huge unpopularity. i salute the tens of thousands of french people who demonstrated against this policy last saturday, and appeal to french workers to exercise their tremendous tradition of solidarity – with all minority communities and working people standing together in defence of human and civil rights and a better future – and not to be conned by this cynical exercise.
mr president, i just want to say that i fully support the motion on long-term care for older people. given the current demographics, the issue of long-term care for older people is certainly a european issue, and while it is largely the responsibility of the member states, nonetheless, because of the nature and the magnitude of the situation, it is a european issue and has indeed been recognised as such. one of the issues highlighted in the resolution which i fully support is the need to take account of the needs of informal carers. they provide a significant proportion of the care that older people require. member states must take practical steps to support and safeguard this invaluable resource, and they must do that by way of training, respite care and other measures that will help to reconcile work and family life. one other point on the resolution that i want to highlight is that it asks that guarantees be put in place in member states to protect the fundamental rights of persons receiving long-term care, and not just that the guarantees be put in place, but that member states ensure that enforcement and compliance with quality criteria for service provision is ensured.
in writing. − i support this resolution which expresses deep concern at the measures taken by the french authorities and by other member states' authorities targeting roma and travellers and providing for their expulsion and urges those authorities immediately to suspend all expulsions of roma. it further emphasises that mass expulsions are prohibited by the charter of fundamental rights and the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and that such measures are in violation of the eu treaties and eu law, since they amount to discrimination on the basis of race and ethnicity and a breach of the directive on the free movement of citizens and of their families in the eu. i welcome commissioner reding's belated but strong response that she is convinced that the commission will have no choice but to initiate infringement proceedings against france for breaches of the free movement directive. roma are the single most discriminated against community in europe. they continue to suffer serious systematic discrimination in education, housing, employment and equal access to healthcare and other public services. however, as eu citizens roma have the perfect and equal right to move and reside freely within the territory of the member states.
mr president, it is quite clear that the 1994 directive served its purpose, but it is now totally outdated. as has been said repeatedly, the huge explosion in air travel means that we do need updated safety measures, we do need more coordination, we do need more inspection and we do need more cooperation. what i like about this report is that it clearly defines the role of the competent authorities. i support the proposal already alluded to by brian simpson and by the rapporteur that the european aviation safety authority should not, in any circumstances, have any role in safety investigation. their job – and they do an excellent job – is certifying aircraft, but not investigating the whole situation in relation to an accident. in relation to the network of safety officers – again, i welcome this. training courses are crucially important, because what we need to do is to reduce the current differences between the different standards applicable in the different member states. concerning the passenger list, one of the major traumas in the wake of an accident is the delay in getting the passenger list. the fact that it must now be produced within one hour is extremely welcome. it is rather gruesome to have to give the name of someone when you are booking a flight, but the fact that you will now, hopefully, be in a position to furnish the name of a person to be contacted in the event of an accident, if somebody dies, is very important as well, because the trauma of waiting is almost unbearable. i take the point in relation to dna, but if we do this – if we give the name of somebody who is to be contacted – then the dna can follow later. a lot of sensible proposals have been made. i commend the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs. they have done an excellent job.
mr president, a song says that ‘all god’s creatures have a place in the choir, some sing high and some sing low, and some just clap their hands’. unfortunately we are seeing that a lot of god’s creatures are beginning to become extinct, mainly because of the activities of man, homo sapiens. it is time we brought some sense to this whole question. i agree totally with ms de lange and other speakers that the time for action is well upon us. the economic arguments are irrefutable: a eur 50 billion loss now, 1% of gdp, rising in 2050 to eur 14 trillion if not averted. this can be a win-win situation for us, but two things are needed, i agree with mr nicholson: the carrot, certainly, when it comes to fishermen and farmers, but also education, in particular where young people are concerned.
i scríbhinn. – tá sé ríthábhachtach go ndéantar an bhithéagsúlacht a chaomhnú. meastar go bhfuil an ráta díobhaidh domhanda idir 50 agus 1 000 uair níos airde ná an gnáth-ráta nádúrtha. san ae tá 42% de mhamaigh, 43% d’éin agus 52% d’éisc fionnuisce i mbaol an díobhaidh. meastar go mbeidh an ráta caillteanais sin deich n-uaire níos mó faoi 2050. ní foláir a chinntiú nach leanann an meath ar bhithéagsúlacht ar an ráta millteanach atá ann faoi láthair. mar a dúirt mé leis an gcomhairle le linn an tseisiúin dheireanaigh, is cúis mhór imní é nár baineadh amach spriocanna an ae, a leagadh síos in gothenburg i 2001, maidir le deireadh a chur leis an meath ar bhithéagsúlacht faoi 2010. chun caillteanais shuntasacha ó thaobh an chomhshaoil, na héiceolaíochta agus an gheilleagair de a sheachaint ní foláir aird cheart a thabhairt ar bhunluach na bithéagsúlachta. molaim an fhís fhadtéarmach go ndéanfaí bithéagsúlacht an ae a athshlánú faoi 2050, ach chun é sin a bhaint amach ní foláir dó a bheith ar bharr an chláir oibre sa chaibidlíocht maidir le todhchaí na talmhaíochta agus an chomhshaoil atá ar bun faoi láthair agus ní mór bearta praiticiúla a chur i bhfeidhm le torthaí cinnte a bhaint amach.
mr president, it does not give me any pleasure to know that, as i stand here tonight in front of you, the eu is watching the economic developments in my home country of ireland extremely carefully. today, irish bonds hit an interest rate high of 6.5% and the situation in ireland is very challenging. the cost of borrowing is in fact the most expensive it has ever been for my country. people back home in my constituency are asking how we got to that point. the simple answer is pure greed. i was happy that commissioner almunia recently effectively insisted on closing ireland’s ultimate zombie bank, anglo irish. the commission had to take action as this bank was endangering the future of my very country. anglo was to cost us eur 2 billion, then 5 billion, then 10 billion. will we find out next month that anglo is going to cost us north of eur 30 billion? the irish are a resilient race. we will get through this, but only with the help of the ecb and through political stability that would be helped by an immediate change of administration back home.
mr president, e-commerce has been tremendously beneficial to both businesses and consumers. there is one aspect, however, that i am not happy about and i want to draw attention to: e-ticketing. tickets, particularly for big concerts and sporting events, are being sold at exorbitant prices. that is not acceptable. in my own country at the weekend we had the all-ireland football finals. it is an amateur organisation, but the maximum price for tickets was eur 70. no club or self-respecting individual would sell those tickets for more than that. if touts were caught selling them in the street, they would be arrested. yet they were freely available on the internet at anything between eur 350 and eur 500. you may say that they could not sell them unless there was demand for them, but at the same time i this is a practice that is unsporting, unfair and unhelpful. it is the downside of e-commerce, which is largely beneficial to consumers.
member of the commission. - mr president, i always listen very carefully to what members of the european parliament say. the commission, which does not have the science, still needs these diagnoses and proposals. that is why i want to thank marielle gallo and the european parliament very sincerely for the interest it continues to show - this report is further proof of this - in improving and strengthening the respect for intellectual property rights. i know that this report has been the subject of much debate and that is quite normal. nevertheless, i think it strikes a good balance between all the interests at stake. i would like to recall, in particular in line with the remarks made by mr borys and mr rübig, that effective protection of intellectual property can indeed encourage creativity and innovation and safeguard jobs in france. but let me add that when we talk about the protection and fair remuneration of creativity, we are not talking only about cultural or industrial creativity. it is also, and more than that, a certain idea of democracy, when we think of the work of journalists, who also, in written newspapers, deserve to be protected and properly remunerated. and then - i think mr borys was referring to health problems - we also know what lies behind the risks of counterfeiting in general. i would like to stress, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's commitment to work very closely with all the groups in this parliament in the coming months to strengthen the fight against counterfeiting and piracy which mrs roithová has just mentioned. the commission will continue its fight against infringements of intellectual property by using both legislative and non-legislative measures. i also believe that any struggle must necessarily be accompanied by positive measures, such as the promotion and development of legal offers. i think i am stressing the need to make citizens, young people, of course, but not just young people, more aware of these phenomena by using - i want to echo mr engström's request - indisputable statistical data on the consequences and extent of counterfeiting and piracy and also the most accurate analysis of their consequences for society and the economy. this is a point which mr enciu has just made. the commission will pay particular attention to the development of the observatory and the other measures announced in our september 2009 communication on administrative cooperation and inter-industry dialogue. i shall be presenting, ladies and gentlemen, next autumn, on all these issues of counterfeiting, in all dimensions of counterfeiting and piracy, an action plan which will be based in concrete terms, in terms of communication, research and training of the personnel of each of our countries in border control, on the work and expertise of the observatory which we are going to set up in a very credible and very concrete way. we will also pay particular attention to improving the legislative framework for the protection of intellectual property and - of course, i say this to mr jahr - a european framework. the solution will be a balanced, proportionate approach, respecting the fundamental rights of citizens, and i would like to tell mrs lichtenberger that this is not about anything - i have said this before your committees - criminalising certain behaviour, particularly of young people. that's not what this is about. the commission is preparing a report on directive 2004/48/ec on the enforcement of intellectual property rights for autumn. i therefore want to confirm to mr manders, who asked me about this, and especially to your rapporteur, mrs gallo, who insisted on this point, that it is on the basis of this report that we will propose - as i believe will be necessary - amendments to this text to improve respect for intellectual property rights in europe.
in writing. – i opposed the gallo report as a regressive and unworkable proposal going against the openness of the internet and fundamental rights and leaving many issues in a legal grey zone. not least, it confuses counterfeiting with file-sharing. the s&d group tabled an alternative resolution focusing on the need to protect the rights and interests of the artists and workers of the creative industries, and at the same time on the need to ensure broad access to cultural goods and services for european consumers. it is a constructive and progressive vision on ipr enforcement seeking the development of a fair, balanced and forward-looking framework for intellectual property rights in europe to the benefit of both creators and consumers. importantly, it distinguished between how commercial and non-commercial file-sharing is dealt with opposing the criminalisation of the latter. the alternative resolution also sought to guarantee net neutrality, protect personal data and other fundamental rights, ensure judicial redress; oppose non-judicial measures of enforcing copyrights; reject the three strikes law (hadopi) being introduced europe-wide; and proposed the creation of innovative alternative business models. note, this is a non-legislative report. the commission is due to bring forward legislative proposals shortly.
mr president, it has been said that natural and man-made disasters have grown exponentially in recent years, causing huge loss to property and indeed to life. last year was the worst year ever for flooding in my country; i want to thank commissioner barnier and the commission for the flexibility they have shown in making funds from the solidarity fund available to us – eur 13 million. sadly, some of the irish authorities have not shown the same flexibility. in bandon, for instance, it has been generally agreed that interim measures need to be put in place immediately by dredging the river to ensure that if there is a similar flood this year, the same damage will not be done; but the inland fisheries authority has objected, so they now seem to be at risk again if another flood occurs. this all goes to show the need, as the rapporteur has said, for the commission to use its muscle and its power and its influence to ensure that measures are taken to alleviate these disasters in future. hopefully they will not reoccur.
madam president, the eu-china summit is seen as very important by european-based transnational corporations which want more flexibility to reap bigger profits from their chinese operations – bigger profits made on the backs of chinese workers, tens of millions of whom are appallingly exploited, migrants in their own land without human rights or workers’ rights, and costing big business only 2.7% of the cost of their american counterparts. the summit is also important for the chinese regime, which wants to intensify its trade with the eu. never mind the diplomatic language of the trade commissioner: this is a viciously repressive regime which routinely crushes human rights, political rights and workers’ rights. however, chinese workers are now struggling for free and independent trade unions to fight for their real interests. in recent months, young chinese workers in particular have led a wave of strikes throughout the country, announcing to the regime and to western big business that they will no longer be treated as faceless cogs in the ruthless wheel of capitalist production and profit-taking by western big business. may european workers support them all the way in their struggle for justice.
a uachtaráin, fáiltím roimh an mórchruinniú seo atá le teacht idir an tsín agus an taontas eorpach, agus tá súil agam go n-éireoidh thar barr leis. i think we ignore china at our peril and that we would be the bigger losers. there is a great opportunity for us to establish parity, particularly with regard to reciprocal arrangements regarding trade with china, which is badly needed for our businesses and our citizens. i know there are issues regarding human rights, workers’ rights and north korea, etc., but it is only by engaging with countries that you can influence them. if you do not engage, then you become irrelevant. i think this is a great opportunity for us to show that europe can speak with one voice – one powerful voice. if that is seen in the forthcoming summit, it would be noted around the world, and the european union as such would become far more relevant and far more influential. i was pleased to be at the beijing games two years ago. china is a fine place, made up of wonderful people. the more engagement we have, the better for them and for us.
how ironic that the european parliament is voting today on an agreement to kick poor and penniless pakistani citizens out of the european union and back to a homeland that is ravaged by disastrous flooding. the long-suffering poor and peasants and workers of pakistan are suffering even more than ever, with 20% of their country devastated by the floods, with crops destroyed, cattle killed, children going hungry and up to 20 million people affected. it would be much more appropriate for us to discuss how we can attack, relieve and end poverty in pakistan, for example by forcing the international monetary fund to cancel the crushing burden of debt on pakistan, to remove the burden of personal debt on the workers and poor of pakistan by the cancellation of those debts, and to increase the aid to relieve the suffering, with such aid not being channelled through a corrupt government, but under the democratic control of peasants, workers and the poor, who are the real victims of this situation. that would be a far more appropriate response to the suffering of the people of pakistan.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm vótáil ar son na tuarascála seo agus taispeánann sé nach bhfuilimid ag déanamh dearmaid ar mhuintir bhocht an domhain, fiú amháin agus cúlú eacnamaíochta ar siúl. ag an am céanna, caithfidh mé a rá go raibh mise san afraic mar oibrí deonach cúpla bliain ó shin; cheannaínn an páipéar gach lá agus chuir sé ionadh orm an méid alt a bhí ann ag cáineadh na ngoanna. ní hé nach raibh obair mhaith á dhéanamh acu, ach go raibh siad ag iarraidh a gcultúr, a ndearcadh agus a dtuairimí féin ar an domhan a chur in iúl agus a chur i bhfeidhm ar an muintir áitiúil. tá sé in am dúinn díospóireacht a bheith againn. mar chuid den díospóireacht sin, ní hé amháin gur chóir dúinn teagmháil a dhéanamh le rialtais na dtíortha sin ach, níos tábhachtaí fós, ba chóir dúinn labhairt le ceannairí áitiúla, cumainn shóisialta, ministéirí, sagairt agus mar sin de i dtreo agus go ndéanaimid dea-obair leis an airgead a chaithimid sna tíortha bochta sin.
i scríbhinn. − ós rud é go bhfuil sé fíorthábhachtach ó thaobh aidhmeanna straitéis 2020 an ae de go mbeadh an tráchtáil leictreonach forleathan ar fud na heorpa, tacaím lena bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir le bearta a chur i bhfeidhm chun an tráchtáil leictreonach sa mhargadh inmheánach a spreagadh agus a láidriú. tá tábhacht ar leith ag baint leis an tráchtáil leictreonach d’fhiontraithe agus do ghnóthais bheaga agus mheánmhéide. cabhróidh an tráchtáil leictreonach agus margadh inmheánach eorpach ar líne le fiontraithe agus gnóthais bheaga seirbhísí nuálacha atá ar ardchaighdeán agus a oireann do thomhaltóirí a chur ar fáil agus neartóidh sé seo a gcumas iomaíochta sa gheilleagar domhanda. ní foláir na spriocanna maidir le rochtain ar bhanda leathan a bhaint amach, agus a chinntiú go mbeidh teacht ag gach éinne san ae ar bhunseirbhísí banda leathan faoi 2013. fáiltím roimh a bhfuil sa tuarascáil ar an ábhar seo. tacaím chomh maith lena bhfuil ann maidir le fógraíocht a dhéanamh ar an tráchtáil leictreonach agus spreagadh a thabhairt do na custaiméirí iad féin a chur ar an eolas maidir leis na cearta atá acu. tá sé tábhachtach go mbeadh custaiméirí na heorpa muiníneach as an gcóras agus iad ag ceannach ar líne.
i scríbhinn. − tá deiseanna sa mhargadh á gcruthú ag an tráchtáil leictreonach, go háirithe do ghnóthais bheaga agus mheánmhéide. is féidir leis an tráchtáil leictreonach ról tábhachtach a bheith aici agus cumas iomaíochta gheilleagar na héireann agus na heorpa a fheabhsú.
in writing. − i welcome the call for the generation of more e-commerce within the eu borders. the eu must however encourage that this is done with respect to european legislation and it is essential that a high level of consumer protection is achieved.
i scríbhinn. − vótáil mé i bhfabhar na tuarascála seo. tá an t-aerthrácht ag méadú i gcónaí agus tá méadú tagtha chomh maith ar an mbaol tionóisce, in ainneoin an dul chun cinn sna caighdeáin sábháilteachta, agus chuige sin ní mór leasú cothrom le dáta a dhéanamh ar an reachtaíocht eorpach a bhaineann le himscrúdú ar thionóiscí. cuirim fáilte roimh a bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir le cearta na n-íospartach agus a muintire. tá sé de cheart ag muintir íospartaigh eolas cuí a fháil chomh luath agus is féidir. ní foláir do na haerlínte plean oibríochta éifeachtach a bheith acu i gcás géarchéime. is beart praiticiúil tábhachtach é iallach a chur ar aerlínte duine a ainmniú mar phríomhphointe teagmhála chun comhordú a dhéanamh, sonraí tábhachtacha a chur ar fáil agus tacaíocht a thabhairt do mhuintir na bpaisinéirí. cabhróidh na bearta praiticiúla a éilítear sa tuarascáil seo i gcás tionóisce, go háirithe an méid atá ann maidir leis an gcúnamh a thugtar d’íospartaigh agus dá muintir agus maidir leis na cumainn a ghníomhaíonn thar a gceann. ní foláir caighdeán ard sábháilteachta a chinntiú d’earnáil na heitlíochta sibhialta san eoraip agus ní mór dúinn ár seacht ndícheall a dhéanamh chun méid na dtionóiscí a laghdú.
in writing. − with the introduction of the european aviation safety agency (easa) there will be a greater structure between national safety investigations authorities. it will help the agencies throughout europe to pool their resources and findings and hopefully help to prevent future accidents from occurring.
i scríbhinn. − ba iad buncheisteanna na tuarascála seo ná an trédhearcacht, an dlúthpháirtíocht agus an comhar réigiúnach. ní foláir slándáil an tsoláthair gháis a áirithiú ar mhaithe le forbairt eacnamaíoch agus cobhsaíocht pholaitiúil na heorpa.
in writing. − as there is only a finite amount of natural gas in the world it is vital that its supply to those in most need of it is secure. with this decision a `union emergency plan´ may be declared for a specifically affected geographical region. this will help those whose supply of gas is affected suddenly and who are vulnerable energy consumers.
in writing. − the european disaster prevention framework would be very helpful in the prevention of natural and man made disasters. the south and west of ireland faced many disasters last year; this initiative is of vital importance. i welcome the focus that would be placed on the training and awareness-raising activities and the plans to reinforce early warning tools. this report has put a huge emphasis on prevention, and has underlined the importance of the role of national, regional and local authorities in the prevention aspect. as these are the authorities who are closest to the action when natural and man made disasters occur and thus should be given a pivotal role in the prevention of them.
i scríbhinn. − tacaím leis an éileamh sa tuarascáil go gceanglódh na tíortha ar fad atá i mbéal forbartha le clár oibre um obair chuibhiúil na heagraíochta idirnáisiúnta saothair agus go gcuirfí i bhfeidhm gan eisceacht an ceart ar shaoirse ón obair éigeantais agus ó shaothar leanaí. de réir na meastachán, tá 218 milliún páiste i mbun saothair ar fud an domhain. is obair ghuaiseach a dhéanann 126 milliún dóibh siúd. is í an bhochtaineacht atá i ndán do pháistí a eisiatar ón gcóras oideachais agus a chuirtear ag obair in aghaidh a dtola. ní foláir bearta suntasacha a chur i bhfeidhm chun dul i ngleic le saothar leanaí, chun poist a chruthú do dhaoine fásta ina n-áit agus chun seans a thabhairt do na leanaí oideachas ceart a fháil. ní mór don phobal idirnáisiúnta a gheallúint go ndéanfaidh siad a seacht ndícheall chun deireadh a chur le saothar leanaí agus ní foláir bearta cinnte a chur i bhfeidhm chun na tiomantais sin a chomhlíonadh. tacaím chomh maith lena bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir le freastal ar bhunriachtanais na ndaoine atá i dtíortha atá i mbéal forbartha agus go mba chóir aird ar leith a thabhairt ar shlándáil an tsoláthair bhia agus rochtain ar uisce óil glan.
in writing. − i support this report which provides an overview of the main challenges to job creation and poverty reduction in the run up to the deadline for achieving the millennium development goals. it reiterates the call for eu member states to meet their aid commitments. in addition it pays particular attention on governance and capacity building, whilst trying to promote greater stakeholder participation. there is also a focus on helping small medium enterprises (smes) in developing countries through establishing infrastructure and technology transfer. it is necessary not only to generate employment but to create quality jobs. all developing countries should sign up to the international labour organization's (ilo) decent work agenda and the un social protection floor initiative in order to guarantee satisfactory labour standards and high levels of comprehensive social protection coverage that reach the poorest and most marginalised groups. indeed, particular emphasis needs to be placed on combating child labour. this report calls for free and full access for all to educational systems, i.e. basic and higher as well as vocational education, so that the local population can become qualified skilled workers as without education children are condemned to a life in poverty and the economy to stagnation.
in writing. − this report outlines the main challenges to job creation and poverty reduction in light of the financial crisis. it calls on eu member states to meet their aid commitments as agreed upon under the millennium development goals. moreover, it seeks the promotion of greater stakeholder participation in small scale land ownership and focuses on assisting small medium entreprises (smes) in developing countries through establishing infrastructure and technology transfer.
mr president, i congratulate my colleague, linda mcavan, on her report. with almost 200 000 deaths per year in the eu caused by adverse reactions to prescribed drugs, i welcome the new eu-wide system to monitor the safety of medicines which have already been approved for use by doctors. adverse reactions are the fifth most common cause of hospital death in europe. this legislation will set out rules and procedures for monitoring the safety profile of medicinal products once they have been authorised and placed on the market. the new powers will also equip national and eu authorities to target the growing problem of forged or falsified medicines, which pose an enormous threat to public health. the more up-to-date information available to the healthcare sector and to individual patients on the safety of medicines in common use, the better it is for the health and safety of all european citizens. i therefore welcome the european medicines web portal, which will be created and linked to national medicines web portals in each member state, and where patients will be able to find information about the safety of the medicine they are taking.
madam president, i think the two words that are most pertinent to the discussion here this evening are flexibility and added value. if we can get those two, then we will be making some progress. obviously, there are huge challenges, particularly if we are to meet the targets of the 2020 strategy, and for that reason an awful lot of work has to be done. nevertheless, there are some great opportunities. one, the lisbon treaty gives us an opportunity to make our mark on the world stage through the eas, which we have not been able to do in the past. that has to be factored in. also, the new banking and insurance authorities are absolutely vital if we are to make our mark within europe, learn from the lessons of the recession and bring some control to a place where there was absolute mayhem. there is one thing i would appeal for, though, and that is that when we are making our financial packages for these institutions, we resist any temptation to factor in bonuses for these situations. they have been the root of all evil, and a person looking for a bonus should be asked one question: ‘what would you not be doing in your job if you were not getting a bonus?’
madam president, the importance of the eu budget in supporting farm incomes in rural ireland is immense. irish farmers, their families, rural communities and the irish food sector will continue to benefit from close to eur 2 billion per annum for the period 2010-2013. this week, our minister for agriculture, brendan smith, announced that the irish government had requested an advance of the single farm payment so as to maximise the cash flow to farmers between now and the end of the year. this is a very welcome and very pragmatic development. i understand that a request by the government will be approved by the council – or perhaps has been improved by the council at this stage today – and it is expected that payments will commence from 18 october, with the second tranche on 1 december. the high level of annual funding allocated to the agricultural sector in my country emphasises the importance of these negotiations to ireland, and to rural ireland in particular.
member of the commission. − i fully agree with the importance of collecting reliable data and developing appropriate indicators in this area. i can assure the honourable member that the collection of data and the development of appropriate indicators will be included in the strategy which i spoke of in my introductory reply. i can also assure members of parliament that we address both internal and external issues when we speak about combating violence against women. in particular, we have significant room and capacity to raise these issues forcefully with countries with which the european commission holds accession negotiations or other intensive contacts.
member of the commission. − i wish to thank the honourable member for her question. as you are aware, the structural funds, such as the european region development fund and the european social fund, are subject to shared management. the managing authority designated by the member state is responsible for managing and implementing operational programmes. managing authorities are there to ensure that operations are selected for co-funding in accordance with the criteria in the operational programme and member state and eu rules. there are two references to relocation in regulation no 1083/2006 laying down general provisions on the european regional development fund, the european social fund and the cohesion fund. the first is in recital 42, which states that when appraising major productive investment projects, the commission should have all necessary information to consider whether the financial contribution from the funds does not result in a substantial loss of jobs in existing locations within the european union, in order to ensure that community funding does not support relocation within the european union. the second reference is in article 57, which stipulates that managing authorities or member states must ensure that co-funded investments are maintained for at least five years after completion of the operation. where an operation fails to meet that requirement, the eu contribution should be recovered. managing authorities must inform the commission in their annual implementation reports of operations that have not met the requirements for the maintenance of investment provided for in that article, and the commission is to inform the other member states. the commission and the member states must ensure that undertakings which are, or have been, the subject of a recovery procedure do not receive a contribution from the funds following the transfer of a productive activity between regions within the member state or to another member state. the commission is assisted in the monitoring of restructuring activities by the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions with the european restructuring monitor. in the case of state aid schemes, there is also a requirement for the investment to be maintained for a period of five years for regional investment aid and employment aid. the commission has set up a state aid web-based search tool which provides information on state aid cases and on block exemption cases recorded. lastly, in accordance with the publicity requirements, member states sharing management of european union funds have to publish a list of beneficiaries of operations and the corresponding amounts of public funding. information on esf beneficiaries can be found on the social fund’s website. this provides links to the social fund websites in the member states.
thank you, commissioner, for your very comprehensive response. it is important that we have coherence in our industrial policy. i have just one specific question to ask you. you talked about recital 42 and said that community funding would not support relocation and that co-funded investments must be maintained for five years. but are there any checks in place to see what happens after funding has been given, to ensure that the specific company does not make workers redundant in any of the other 26 member states? are there any checks there to see if that happens and, if it does, what are the consequences of that?
go raibh maith agat a choimisinéir faoi choinne an fhreagra chuimsithigh sin. is cnámh droma d’eacnamaíocht an aontais eorpaigh iad gnóanna beaga agus fiontair bheaga. tá tacaíocht don earnáil seo, mar atá a fhios agat féin, fíorthábhachtach má tá an taontas eorpach le feabhas a chur ar chúrsaí eacnamaíochta amach anseo. chuir an eoraip 2020 cúrsaí taighde agus fiontraíochta i gcroílár straitéisí eacnamaíochta na heorpa. ach, nach é an cás go bhfuil tábhacht faoi leith le feabhas a chur ar leibhéal rannpháirtíochta na smeanna sa 7ú creatchlár um thaighde agus fhorbairt teicneolaíochta? mar sin ba mhaith liom ceist a chur ar an choimisinéir geoghegan-quinn, cad eile is féidir leis an gcoimisiún eorpach a dhéanamh le tacaíocht a thabhairt d’ábaltacht na hearnála seo maoiniú a fháil faoi chláracha taighde bliantúla an aontais eorpaigh?
three points immediately jump out: 90% of the new products which are coming forward from research-oriented programmes are from small and medium-sized enterprises, yet one of the biggest difficulties they face is in the whole area of intellectual property rights protection. are there plans, or is there coordination between your directorate and other directorates, to deal with that? secondly, are you looking specifically at new areas of quantum physics and technical storage data as new opportunities for research and development funds as well?
firstly, i think that the commissioner might have been able to come to my question, but i have no problem because it is related to this. tá sé tagtha níos túisce ná mar a ceapadh. my question is as follows – where do you see the quick winds in terms of delivery for the great work that you are doing and the enterprise you are showing in meeting your job specifications so that people can see that the work you are doing is beneficial and, of course, so that we can create jobs and industries as quickly as possible?
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his response as well. i think that one of the biggest difficulties being faced is the ongoing cost of the damage because there was a further series of floodings shortly after the november one was an issue and discussed. in my own home town of bandon, which has a population of 5 000 people, there are still 19 businesses which have failed to reopen because of the difficulties of the flooding and the damage they have suffered. so maybe we should look at long-term management plans as well as just immediate funding.
thank you, commissioner, for your answer and also for the funding which you gave despite the fact that we had not reached a national threshold. because of that, would you consider changing the criteria for the national threshold, because with the same criteria for every country, a smaller country, depending on the catastrophe, would obviously be much different from a larger country?
i merely want to thank the commissioner, his predecessor and his officials, who worked very closely with the irish officials both in brussels and in dublin, and in particular her finance minister who signed off, as you said, almost on the last hour. while it is small, it is very much appreciated: thirty million that we might not have had. but i would also like to think that you might recommend to your colleagues that we should possibly change the threshold, because the threshold in ireland is almost one billion, and of course we were a long way below that.
mr president, as many colleagues have said, article 174 of the treaty refers to territorial cohesion as a new objective of the european union. therefore, the union must pay greater attention to the economic and social needs of people living in mountainous regions, small islands and remote areas. i strongly believe that the eu must now respond by introducing concrete measures at an early date. under the resolution, i suggested that there should be a greater emphasis on the important economic sectors which these communities rely heavily on. i am particularly concerned about those fishermen who operate from small vessels off our coasts and islands. these small vessels are of extreme importance to peripheral areas, where there is no alternative source of employment. in ireland, the majority of these vessels are less than 15 metres long, catching quantities of fish that have no significant impact on stocks. however, they must abide by regulations that are established for larger boats that bear no comparison. i call on the commission, when reviewing the common fisheries policy, to recognise that reality and to have a segment within the new policy for those areas off the coast and the islands which depend on fish.
mr president, during the volcanic ash crisis it took me two days to get home to my own country because of the fact that there is no land link and no tunnel between ireland and england. it brought home very clearly to me the particular difficulties of people living on islands without any connection to the mainland. the same applies to those living in sparsely-populated mountainous and hilly regions and other areas of disadvantage. that would apply to my own situation in the south of ireland, all the way up along the west coast to pat the cope’s donegal. certainly these areas do need every consideration. i would like to raise three points. firstly, nuno teixeira pointed out that, under paragraph 3, member states can allocate funds for other than gdp considerations. that is something we should encourage for these regions, because they are special. secondly, these regions are the richest in the whole of europe in terms of biodiversity, environmental protection and the delivery of public goods. that is something that must be factored in very strongly in the upcoming cap negotiations. thirdly, under article 195 of the lisbon treaty, the european union now has some competence for the development of tourism. these regions offer great scope for the development of strong and sustainable tourism. they are areas of scenic beauty, and have a good traditional way of life and very friendly people. if we make an effort, particularly here at european union level, to help them, not only are we helping them to survive, but we can also help them to help themselves. i suppose that is ultimately the best support we can give them.
mr president, to be frank, the areas that we are talking about tonight have been suffering for generations economically and socially and now, due to the effects of modern globalisation, they are faced with increased challenges. i represent an area that has many islands and that has the largest mountain range in ireland. like the previous two speakers, my colleagues from ireland, i know the areas that have been suffering for many generations. populations are shifting to urban areas; there is a lack of economic opportunities for young people – we could go on all day about the issues facing them. i believe that it is time that we recognise that cohesion policy, despite many successes and very noble efforts, has not fully succeeded in providing economic development across the union, especially for these areas. i would hope that the response of the eu to this problem will lead to real, concrete differences by addressing the basis of this inequality and, very importantly, by adapting to modern needs such as the communications area, and especially next-generation broadband, which i believe is a huge issue. access to communications is going to be the next big challenge; it represents a huge challenge at the moment. it is time to ensure we give these communities an economic lifeline. i would like to remind us all that we are obliged to do so under all the treaties.
madam president, what i have heard here this evening is pretty astounding and somewhat depressing: the increase in emissions from aviation over the past number of years and the likelihood this will continue, particularly with the development of countries like brazil, india, china, russia, and a growing middle class, leading to more travel and trade and all that goes with it, and even with our own policies of youth on the move, freedom of labour, developing tourism, and with an ageing population moving around more, etc. the question i want to ask particularly is what plans do we have at european level to reduce emissions by way of research and innovation, as we have done or are trying to do with electric cars, energy efficient buildings and so forth? such plans are the answer to the problem we have in the long term.
madam president, i note we are pretty unanimous in what has been said. obviously, the development of community trademarks is a natural extension of the development of the internal market and it offers great scope for developing trade for smes, helping to stop counterfeiting and piracy, etc. so it is difficult to see how anyone could object to it. in particular, all political pressure, and possibly sanctions, must be brought to bear on member states who are not embracing it, to bring them to their senses in this regard. on the wider front, i would say also that community trademarks and similar initiatives help to bring the european union closer to its citizens and make it more relevant for the development of business within the european union. finally, i would just like to say i am also looking forward to the development of the europe-wide patent, and the sooner that can happen the better.
madam president, just an enquiry. i thought we were going to have a catch-the-eye segment in this debate. is that the case?
mr president, i strongly support the report on the rationalising of the pharmcovigilance system for medicinal purposes for human use. i think this is an area where the eu can certainly add value and where, by working together, we can ensure greater patient safety. even after medicines are fully authorised there can still be adverse reactions, and i think the full safety profile of medicines can only be known once they have entered the market. that is why we must continue to be vigilant. this proposal will ensure greater patient safety by strengthening the eu system for monitoring the safety of medicines. it will enhance eudravigilance, the database for collecting information on adverse drug reactions. the creation of the new european medicines safety web portal will allow citizens better access to clear and understandable information on safety issues. this is the first part of the three-part package to strengthen and address gaps in eu pharmaceutical legislation, and i believe it is a good first step.
a uachtaráin, staon mé ar an vóta maidir le húdarás nua a chur i bhfeidhm don chóras airgeadais san eoraip toisc nach n-athraíonn na socruithe nua, in aon slí bunúsach, an modh ina bhfeidhmíonn an córas airgeadais agus nach gcuireann siad smacht ar na margaí airgeadais. go mór mór, ní chuireann na socruithe seo deireadh le speicléireacht agus brabúsaíocht ag na bainc mhóra, agus na cistí speicléireachta ar a dtugtar hedge funds. in éirinn inné, mar shampla, thug an margadh airgeadais eur 1.5 billiún ar iasacht do rialtas na héireann, ach é sin ar chostas 4 phointe níos daoire ná dá mba rud é gurb í an ghearmáin a bheadh i gceist. ciallaíonn sé seo, go mbeidh ar lucht oibre na tíre na milliúin bhreise a íoc leis na hinstitiúidí seo dá bharr san. ní athraíonn an bord nua a chuirtear i bhfeidhm tada. níl aon fhreagra ar fhadhbanna airgeadais na heorpa ach an córas go hiomlán a chur in úinéireacht phoiblí agus faoi smacht daonlathach.
i scríbhinn. − tá buiséad an ae ríthábhachtach chun cúnamh agus tacaíocht a thabhairt d’éirinn na tuaithe agus d’ioncam feirmeoirí. beidh thart ar eur 2 bhilliún sa bhliain ó 2010 go 2013 ag dul chun tairbhe d’fheirmeoirí na héireann, do phobal an tuaithe agus d’earnáil bia na éireann. tá caibidlíocht fhíorthábhachtach faoin mbuiséad faoi lánseol i láthair na huaire chun teacht ar réiteach maidir leis an airgead a bheidh ar fáil d’earnáil na talmhaíochta ó 2013 ar aghaidh. is rí-léir ón ardleibhéal maoinithe a tugtar d’earnáil na talmhaíochta in éirinn ar bhonn bliantúil go bhfuil an chaibidlíocht seo fíorthábhachtach d’éirinn agus d’éirinn na tuaithe go háirithe.
in writing. − the creation of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) is part of the commission's proposals based on the recommendations of the larosière report of february 2009. the larosière report suggested the strengthening of the supervisory framework in order to reduce the risk and severity of future financial crises. i welcome the creation of the eiopa as a european response to ensure high, effective and consistent level or regulation and supervision throughout europe. this european-wide authority will supervise the national supervisory authorities of the insurance sector and will ensure the existence of appropriate and adequate protection for investors and insured consumers in the eu. the authority will make decisions directly applicable to financial institutions and it may alert the commission to dangerous products or market transactions.
in writing. − i welcome the european commission's proposal to establish a new body called the european systemic risk board (esrb) in response to the financial, economic and social crisis that has swept across the european union. the esrb will operate under the auspices of the european central bank and will monitor and assess risks to the stability of the financial system as a whole. additionally, the esrb will also issue early warnings to member states of systemic risks that may be building up and, where necessary, will make recommendations for action to deal with these risks. the heads of the european central bank, national central banks, the european supervisory authorities, and national supervisors, will all participate in the esrb. thus, the esrb through its macroeconomic surveillance functions will assist in the prevention of future crises.
in writing. − the european commission's proposal to update a series of banking and securities directives so that they can adapt into the new european architecture of financial supervision should be embraced. the new financial supervisory framework should go beyond individual risk of financial institutions regulated by the national supervisory authorities and focus on broader systemic risk border while promoting european cooperation on systemic risk internationally.
in writing. − the establishment of the european banking authority (eba) is part of the commission's proposals following the recommendations of the larosière report of february 2009. i welcome the establishment of the european banking authority as a european response to the financial and economic crisis has created real and serious risks to the stability of the internal market. this pan-european supervisory system is designed to establish close co-operation and co-ordination between national and european authorities to ensure the stability of the eu's financial system, and will close gaps in between different national regimes. a new board made up of heads of european central banks will monitor and act against macro-economic risks as they emerge across europe. the eba will issue decisions directly applicable to financial institutions and will alert the commission regarding dangerous products or market transactions. moreover, the eba will play a key role in identifying systemic risks and will participate in the event of a crisis resolution.
i scríbhinn. − cuirfidh na gníomhaireachtaí nua feabhas ar an gcomhoibriú atá ann idir rialtóirí náisiúnta agus beidh siad ag freastal ar chur chuige níos comhleanúnaí ó thaobh mhaoirseacht earnáil na seirbhísí airgeadais de. beidh an cumas ag na gníomhaireachtaí nua dul i ngleic leis na laigí atá sa chóras maoirseachta faoi láthair agus a chinntiú nach dtarlóidh na fadhbanna atá tagtha chun cinn i roinnt tíortha eorpacha le tamall anuas arís. beidh na leasuithe seo ar an leibhéal eorpach comhlánach leis na bearta atá curtha i gcrích cheana féin ag rialtas na héireann chun rialú earnáil seirbhísí airgeadais na héireann a láidriú.
in writing. − the establishment of the european securities and markets authority (esma) is part of the commission's proposals following the recommendations of the larosière report of february 2009 is to be embraced. this authority will significantly strengthen the supervision of the financial sector in europe. the esma will issue decisions directly applicable to financial institutions and will alert the commission regarding dangerous products or market transactions. moreover, the esma will play a key role in identifying systemic risks and will participate in the event of a crisis resolution. furthermore, in the case of an emergency situation, the esma may, within the scope of its powers, adopt a decision by simple majority obliging the national supervisory authorities to take certain measures. these measures must contribute to the stability and the orderly functioning of the financial markets.
i scríbhinn. − faoin rún seo, chuir mé leasú síos maidir le béim níos treise a chur ar na hearnálacha eacnamaíocha tábhachtacha a mbraitheann na pobail atá i gceist go tréan orthu. déanann airteagal 174 de chonradh liospóin tagairt do chomhtháthú críochach mar aidhm nua an aontais eorpaigh. ciallaíonn sé sin nach foláir don aontas eorpach aird níos mó a thabhairt ar riachtanais eacnamaíocha agus shóisialta na ndaoine atá ina gcónaí i limistéir shléibhtiúla, ar oileáin bheaga amach ón gcósta agus i limistéir iargúlta. creidim go láidir go mba chóir don ae freastal ar na riachtanais seo láithreach agus bearta cinnte a chur i bhfeidhm chuige seo. is cúis imní ar leith iad na hiascairí a bhíonn ag obair ar árthaí beaga ó na cóstaí agus ó na hoileáin. tá an t-iascach ar scála beag ríthábhachtach do réigiúin fhorimeallacha, áit nach bhfuil fostaíocht ionadúil ar bith ann. in éirinn, tá tromlach na mbád atá gníomhach sna ceantair seo níos lú ná 15 méadar ar fhad, agus ní bhíonn tionchar suntasach ar bith ag na héisc agus ag an méid éisc a ghabhann siad ar an stoc éisc iomlán.
in writing. − the principle of territorial cohesion was consolidated in the regulations on the structural funds 2007-2013 and is one of the new key objectives established for the european union by the treaty of lisbon, aimed at securing the harmonious development of the eu by reducing regional disparities and removing obstacles to development, including obstacles linked to natural and geographical handicaps this resolution considers that mountain regions, islands and sparsely populated areas constitute homogeneous groups of regions and that they share some important common features which differentiate them from other regions, that they deserve specific regional development programmes and stresses, in this context, the special situation of the island member states located on the periphery of the union. indeed, i might add the problems experienced by fishing and rural communities including those of the islands off the western coast of ireland including the donegal coast. the resolution further calls for the establishment of a specific european integrated and flexible policy framework for dealing with mountain regions, islands and sparsely populated areas on the basis of their shared features.
mr president, i agree with all of the comments in relation to the negative impact of this particular measure. this fee of usd 14, payable once every two years, is applicable to countries that are in good standing with the united states. we have had very good negotiations in relation to open skies, exchange of passenger information, etc., but this is very counter-productive, because essentially what we are talking about is introducing a new visa. this is a visa affair, as mr busuttil has said: even non-ticketed infants are required to have an approved travel authorisation. i agree with the commission, in this field, that this is regrettable and inconsistent with the united states’ commitment to ease transatlantic travel. what this has done, in fact, is to introduce new barriers at a time when we were actually dismantling barriers, with the united states senate introducing the charge in an attempt to reverse the declining number of visitors to its country. the majority of this money is to be used to fund the promotion of the united states as a holiday destination. however, i believe that it will actually put people off travelling there. my own country, for example, has a long association with the united states: 40 million people living in the united states are of irish origin, and we have huge trade between the two countries. people are not going to pay this amount in the majority of cases. the essential purpose of the legislation is basically to enhance the exchequer and to enhance the attractiveness of the united states as a tourist destination. president obama says that overseas visitors spend usd 120 billion and support one million jobs, and that this measure will provide an extra usd 4 billion and 40 000 new jobs. i believe the direct opposite will happen, because an online poll carried out by telegraph travel showed that 44% of the readers said that the fee would put them off travelling to the united states. on the basis of that survey, i believe this is going to be counterproductive, that it is going to have negative effects and that it is actually going to do damage to the united states and to its tourist industry.
i would like to congratulate the minister on arranging this important conference, bringing the scientists and the fishing sector together. i would like to think that the council will lay emphasis on the question of discards, and on enticing fishermen and fisherwomen to bring discards ashore, by providing for their being compensated. so it is vitally important that this, together with the other four issues which are to be raised, should be fed into the council meeting. i would suggest to the minister that he look in particular at small vessels under 15 metres, in which fishermen must make a livelihood and provide for their wives and families, and at the fact that they are making no major impact on this very important renewable stock.
mr president, i would like to thank the minister for his very comprehensive response. i would ask him if he could inform me – or let me know if the information is not available to him – whether, when the negotiations are completed and a decision has to be taken, that decision will be taken by the croatian parliament alone or whether an opportunity will be given to the people of croatia to decide by way of a referendum, as was the case in my own country.
president of the council. - the honourable member raised an issue which is of particular concern in this period of economic difficulties. the council is aware of the risk of poverty faced by people engaged in voluntary aid activities, which leads to a reduction in their participation in the labour market. the first aspect to be addressed in relation to voluntary carers concerns their reintegration into the labour market. aware of the problems faced by those who have interrupted their careers before taking on unpaid care work, the council encouraged the member states to ensure that the case of such persons is taken into account in pension schemes. in its directive implementing the revised framework agreement on parental leave, the council stated, for example, that at the end of parental leave, the worker has the right to return to his job, or to an equivalent or similar job in accordance with his contract or employment relationship. the council is aware that the social partners have been consulted by the commission on the possibility of adopting new types of family leave, such as adoption leave or leave to care for family members. the second aspect is inequality between men and women. the council noted that the responsibility for the care of the family still lies largely with women, particularly because of social stereotypes relating to the role of women and men in the family and in society. as part of the beijing action programme, the council adopted conclusions on women and poverty in 2007, including a set of indicators to help member states and the commission monitor this key issue. in its conclusions, the council should have been aware that taking up unpaid care work instead of paid employment may be a matter of personal choice, but that because of gender inequalities, interruption of working life for family reasons is a problem specific to women, which can affect their economic independence and their level of social protection, especially at retirement age, when many women have to be content with a low pension. it is in this context that the council has stated that the burden of these tasks should be more equitably shared between men and women. it also repeatedly stressed the importance of childcare facilities and the need to provide support services for other dependants. the ageing population means that more older citizens will need to be cared for and in its conclusions on 'gender equality for growth and jobs', adopted in november 2009, the council underlined the long-term strategic importance of these issues for the union, including from a demographic perspective. there is a clear correlation between high female employment, the availability of childcare and care services for children and dependants, and high fertility rates. the council therefore recommended the adoption of policies to enable women and men to better reconcile work, family and private life.
thank you, minister, for your very comprehensive reply. it is obvious that the council is taking this matter quite seriously. i am interested to hear about the fact that you are looking at carer and family leave, that the same standards would apply to those who want to go back to work. you also mentioned the gender aspect of it. another aspect is that a lot of young people end up caring, and i often think that is forgotten. you also mentioned personal choice. i think that is what carers want. they want to have the choice as to whether they work or care. i am also very pleased to hear that you are taking into consideration the whole issue of pensions, because what happens sometimes is that people give up work to care, they lose part of their salary, they cannot continue to make their social contributions when they are caring, and then they lose out on their pension, so i do think that is an area perhaps where the council could make recommendations to member states.
i think we all agree that the trafficking of human beings is a most heinous crime. trafficking is bad enough where adult trafficking is concerned, but child trafficking is the most sordid and revolting of the lot. in relation to my own country – and i know we have the 2002 legislation – the ecpat report in relation to ireland’s performance has been pretty devastating: 441 children unaccounted for. i welcome the proposal for the new network, but what we need is an effective network, a network that will stamp out the trafficking once and for all, because europe is wide open in terms of open boundaries and open borders, so we really need to get our act together, and i commend the council’s determination.
deputising for the author. – on behalf of mr aylward, i want to thank the president-in-office for his response, but while his plans are quite laudable i believe that jobs can be created in the short term. the commission has admitted that europe is missing out on the creation of 1.5 million jobs in the short term because micro-businesses have been held back by excessive employment regulation and red tape. while i appreciate the fact that the minister mentioned the national policies, he will recall that in the state of the union address president barroso referred in particular to the commission’s policy for dealing with red tape. i am wondering what immediate action the council can take to ensure that this red tape is minimised and jobs created.
in writing. – the death penalty is the ultimate cruel, inhuman and degrading punishment. indeed, let us not forget that the death penalty affects first and foremost underprivileged people. i am opposed to the death penalty in all cases and under all circumstances and would like to emphasise that abolition of the death penalty contributes to the enhancement of human dignity and the progressive development of human rights. this resolution was timed to coincide with the european and world day against the death penalty, which are both on 10 october. the eu is the leading institutional actor and lead donor in the fight against the death penalty worldwide and its action in this area represent a key priority of its external human rights policy. in the united nations, the eu has successfully sponsored from 1997 a yearly resolution at the commission on human rights (chr) calling for abolition and, in the meantime, to establish a moratorium on the use of the death penalty. i urge the eu institutions to redouble efforts and use all tools of diplomacy and cooperation assistance available to them to work towards the abolition of the death penalty
madam president, i think we all were shocked at the daily spill that was occurring in the gulf of mexico and the environmental damage that occurred as a result of it. it is only right that, as a result of that, we should be discussing this issue here to find ways to ensure that it will not happen again. i think a few points spring to mind. number one is that the security and safety standards that we have must be rigorously applied so that accidents are prevented rather than having to be dealt with, and certainly there are good standards at the moment which need to be applied everywhere. secondly, i agree totally with the commissioner when he said that we must transport our safety standards throughout the world, because if something happens in the gulf of mexico or anywhere else we are not immune to the fall-out from it. you cannot put an iron curtain around the waters of europe and say nothing is going to happen if we abide by high standards ourselves, so there is great need for a worldwide agreement in that regard. also, we need a disaster management fund. this has been mentioned and i agree with it. people have spoken about a moratorium and certainly at this point in time it does not seem to me to be a feasible option, because if we were to do that, there is a grave danger that we could become like a rich man who decides to give away all his money and finishes up having to beg from those he gave his money to. we would be in the same position, with other countries continuing to explore as they do now without using the rigorous standards that we would be applying.
deputising for the author. − madam president, i am grateful for the opportunity to speak in this debate. last week i chaired parliament’s delegation to the un summit on progress towards the millennium development goals. for the duration of the summit and at each side event, i was gripped by the enthusiasm of my colleagues, governments, international organisations and the people on the ground who are committed to achieving the ambitious targets set in 2000. some progress has been made and there is much we can be proud of, but much more needs to be done. access to education is rapidly improving. enrolment in education has reached 76% in sub-saharan africa and 94% in north africa. access to drinking water is increasing. by 2015, 86% of those living in the developing world will be able to access clean drinking water – up from 71% in 1990. targets for accessing drinking water have already been met in four regions – northern africa, latin america and the caribbean, east asia and south-eastern asia. access to energy is increasing. there is near universal access to electricity in north africa. however, although progress has clearly been made, there is so much more that needs to be done. it was put to us by an assistant secretary of the united nations that we really do need ‘a dash to the finish’ over the next five years. one billion children live in poverty, 1.4 million children die each year from lack of access to safe drinking water, and 2.2 million children die each year because they have not been immunised by vaccines that are so easily accessible in the developed world and which we have had for over 30 years. goal 7 of the millennium development goals is to ensure environmental sustainability. within this goal, there are several sub-targets. target 7b is perhaps the most encompassing: ‘reduce biodiversity loss, achieving, by 2010, a significant reduction in the rate of loss’. the indicators of biodiversity include, inter alia, the proportion of land area covered by forest, co2 emissions, the proportion of total water resources used, consumption of ozone-depleting substances, and the proportion of fish stocks within safe biological limits. the reduction in biodiversity loss is therefore a key component of the millennium development goals. seventy percent of the world’s poor live in rural areas and depend directly on biodiversity for their survival and well-being. the urban poor also rely on biodiversity for ecosystem services, such as the maintenance of air and water quality and the breakdown of waste. there can be little doubt that biodiversity and climate change will affect the world’s poor first. it will affect countries like tuvalu in the polynesian islands – a country that is merely four and a half metres above sea level – and the maldives, where president nasheed held an underwater cabinet meeting this year to highlight the fact that by the end of the century his country could indeed be under water. i am calling on the member states and the commission to give new impetus to the global climate change alliance and its support facility in order to increase developing countries’ capacity-building and knowledge base on the expected impacts of biodiversity loss and to effectively integrate it into development plans and budgets. i have also highlighted the fact that programmes aimed at the protection of biodiversity and poverty reduction must address the priorities of the poor and put more emphasis on locally-based environmental management, ensure access to biodiversity resources, land reform, and acknowledgement of customary tenure. by 2050 there will be two billion more people on the face of the earth and 90% of these will be born into what is now the developing world. if we allow abject poverty to continue in those countries, there will be massive migration from south to north and inequality could well be the cause of a world conflagration. many of us did not believe we would see the berlin wall come down in our lifetime. now we take it for granted that the former soviet-dominated countries are our eu partners. the wall of poverty between north and south can also come down and we can make a world that is better and safer – a place where we can have new partners and an environment safe for us all.
madam president, this has been a very interesting debate because we now conclude that biodiversity loss is a problem for the developed world and in the developing world. gay mitchell spoke very eloquently about the difficulties for the developing world when erosion of biodiversity occurs. he also spoke positively about where improvements have been made. in order to guarantee food security for the world, we need sustainable agriculture in a sustainable environment. i think another colleague mentioned that we have perhaps failed to communicate outside our own ranks, to those who are managing farms and ecosystems, about how important biodiversity is. we have failed to pay for it in the price we pay for our goods. as has been said, we have to put a market value on biodiversity if we are serious about reversing the loss.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, first of all i want to thank the council and commission for their statements today and i want to thank the alde group, the greens/efa group and the gue/ngl group for their support in having this matter on today’s agenda. the new social clauses do not relate solely to services of general interest as implied by the epp intervention earlier this afternoon and, as regards social services of general interest (ssgi), we need to come to conclusions on these matters which have been heavily debated over many years, rather than rehashing old arguments. as rapporteur on the future of social services of general interest, i look forward to working with all the groups which recognise the need for a strong social market economy and i hope to bring forward concrete proposals to resolve the dilemmas faced by providers of ssgi. as you are no doubt aware, europe’s citizens have high hopes regarding the development of a more coherent and dynamic social dimension to european policies and legislation following the adoption of the lisbon treaty. indeed one of those important debates in ireland during the referendums on lisbon concerned the new social clauses, including article 3, article 9, article 14 and the social protocol and indeed many others in relation to disability and equality. it is always important that we live up to citizens’ expectations. it is doubly important at this time of economic and social crisis for many millions of our citizens who have already lost, and many more who will lose, their jobs, their homes, their savings, their pensions, their public health services and indeed educational opportunities for their children because of the crisis and the remedies being applied. it would be deeply destabilising for the european union if the college of commissioners and the european council were to take the view that these new treaty articles change nothing and continue treating social objectives as secondary to market objectives. if we fail in our responsibilities, there are waiting in the wings extreme xenophobic and intolerant political parties willing to capitalise on the anger and the discontent that is out there. my specific request to the commission today, and to the council, is to accept that we need a dynamic process for making progress with regard to services of general interest, particularly social services of general interest. i regret the statement today by the commissioner. i hope over the next few months to persuade him that he is wrong, that we do need a dynamic process, that we do need a high level taskforce which includes not only himself and other dgs but members of civil society, the trade unions, the council and the committee of the regions. we need a mechanism which will drive the change which everybody recognises. commissioner i have heard you saying, and i have heard mr barroso saying, that the stakeholders apparently tell you that there is no real problem. the stakeholders are not telling me that. i have met dozens of them in the past six months. they are telling me there are administrative problems and there are legal problems and that they need to be addressed urgently. they are not going to be addressed urgently, i am afraid, on the basis of what you and the council said here today. i hope, as i say, i can change your mind over the next few months. however, there is an urgent need for a mechanism, a high-level mechanism which will include the stakeholders and ensure that the decisions that need to be made are made and followed through. i think it is most important that parliament is involved in that process. we have to bear in mind that we must address the concerns and demonstrate that europe is serious about creating a social market economy and not a single market on its own.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i have here a well-worn, annotated, underlined, dog-eared, tea-stained copy of the lisbon treaty. for 12 months this was my constant travelling companion when i was trying to persuade irish citizens to vote ‘yes’. when irish citizens asked me why they should vote ‘yes’, one of the top five reasons that i gave them was that this treaty would bring about a more social europe. just 12 months ago, we ratified this treaty and now we, as politicians, have to deliver on our promises. we have spoken about the new horizontal social clause – article 9 – that obliges the union to consider the social consequences of decisions when making its policies. this is a cross-cutting objective and it gives us greater scope to be more ambitious when writing, amending or implementing eu legislation, but article 9 does not guarantee desired policy outcomes. it is a powerful tool which is at our disposal, but we have to ask ourselves whether we are using it or whether it is just window dressing. social policy was poorly built into the original treaties, but i believe it is much stronger in the lisbon treaty. apart from the protocol on services of general interest, article 14 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union has been mentioned. that clearly states the shared responsibility of member states and the eu as regards sgis. to date, the eu has applied internal market rules, but article 14 states that in the application of the treaties ‘the union and the member states … shall take care that such services operate on the basis of principles and conditions, particularly economic and financial conditions, which enable them to fulfil their missions.’ that is a shift in eu policy and it must be reflected in the commission’s communications and proposals. also, in the council, the anti-discrimination directive is still blocked. that is an important piece of legislation. we need to see it implemented. so, while the fundamental principles are established and social policy legislation is protected in the lisbon treaty, the future direction of social policy is not settled definitively. we – the commission, the council and the parliament – can and must use the tools provided by lisbon.
madam president, i think everybody agrees that we need to strengthen the resilience of the banking system. thanks to mr karas we are aware that under the basel proposals we do not have a level playing field, and if you do not have a level playing field you cannot compete. in fact, there is a great danger that you will score many own goals. the point has been made, but needs to be made precise, that the us and europe are totally different. the us economy is mainly financed through the capital markets. europe relies mainly on the lending capacity of the banking sector and we know that more than anywhere in ireland. our banks simply cannot give credit to smes, and otherwise viable smes are going to the wall everyday simply because they are starved of credit. and, as vicky pointed out, the taxpayer is bailing out these bankers and also funding the redundancy packages and the pension funds and the golden handshakes of dormant regulators etc. so there is a lot of work to be done to get the balance right and i think that is the key here. i am encouraged by the commissioner’s response, and he did say he would work with us and would try and get the balance right and establish a level playing field. then we would be scoring goals and not conceding own goals.
madam president, articles 81, 101 and 102 all deal with these issues, under cartels, price fixing, predatory pricing, etc. certainly it is something that we should be concerned about, but often it is difficult to prove that they actually exist. for instance, i have here a headline which says ‘antitrust: car prices fell only slightly in 2009’, whereas prices for repairs and maintenance continue to rise despite the crisis, despite a reduction in wages and despite deflation, rather than inflation. is that a cartel? in my own country, if there is a shower of rain, the price of cattle drops automatically. i think there is certainly a need to look at the guidelines, both in terms of establishing trends over a long period of time and also in the actual punishments you are going to apply. i think mr skinner made a very interesting suggestion when he said ‘make the directors pay’. i would say that we should also have a fine: do both. there is a certainly a lot of work to be done, but we are going the right way.
madam president, i would like to welcome last week’s vote by the committee on budgets to freeze the salaries and allowances of european commissioners unless changes are made to their code of conduct. that vote shows that parliament will not tolerate any repeat of a case like that of charlie mccreevy, the former internal market commissioner, whose new directorship is being investigated by the commission over concerns of a possible conflict of interest. 201 requests have been made by commission figures seeking permission to take up jobs following their time in the commission. only one has been barred. the code must be reviewed and should not merely be a set of guidelines, loosely interpreted.
madam president, i have just returned from iceland after attending the first meeting of the eu-iceland joint parliamentary committee. over the course of the two-day visit, our delegation held an extremely informative exchange of views with members of the icelandic government and of the icelandic parliament in relation to their application for membership. when the delegation met with the icelandic minister for fisheries, i took the opportunity to raise the issue of the substantial increase in the total allowable catch of mackerel. we all have a responsibility to sustain this fishery, and indeed all fisheries, but i referred to this one in particular. i am please to note that on 12 october in london, iceland will enter into negotiations with the coastal states, and i am hopeful that a satisfactory solution can be reached. the fall-out from the financial crisis is still very much evident in iceland. that is why the icesave dispute must remain a bilateral issue between iceland, the uk and the netherlands. it is vitally important that the parties involved continue negotiations with a view to reaching a satisfactory outcome.
madam president, earlier this evening we debated the social provisions and the lisbon treaty, which obliges the union to consider the social consequences of a decision when making its policies. is the eu – or should i say the commission – considering the social, and indeed economic, consequences of insisting that ireland comply with the stability and growth pact by 2014? of course, fiscal consolidation is very important, but there is a real sense that it is all that matters. ‘get within the 3% by 2014 or else’: that is the very strong message coming from the eu. earlier this evening, the belgian presidency said that mindless austerity is not inevitable, and yet that is what we are facing: mindless austerity, fiscal correction at whatever cost. how about the need to rebuild our economy? yes, we need to get back to the 3% level, but we need a longer timeframe. i fully accept that many of the difficulties are self-inflicted and i am not looking for sympathy, but i am saying that mindless austerity will destroy our small, open economy that, two years into the crisis, still has four businesses closing every day.
madam president, as reported in the financial times of 6 october, the research commissioner, mrs geoghegan-quinn, has warned of an innovation emergency in europe. we need to stimulate private-sector research funding through a variety of measures, such as venture capital financing initiatives. however, the european union proposals, intended to prevent a repeat of the financial economic crisis, lump venture capital – key to driving small innovative start-ups in the eu – together with speculators such as hedge funds. venture capital is the honey-bee of alternative funds owing to its ability to pollinate emerging businesses and drive growth in the global economy, as exemplified by google, facebook and skype. venture funds provide access to capital, business expertise and often the market place itself for innovative private start-ups and smes. they provide stable support and investment for a period of between three and seven years on average. we also need to bridge the gap between ourselves, the us and japan. i think we should heed the words of the research commissioner, mrs geoghegan-quinn.
mr president, article 4 tfeu lists the competencies shared between the union and the member states. after the internal market, social policy is the next on the list, followed by economic, social and territorial cohesion. that gives an indication of the priorities in the treaty. following on from that, article 9 clearly states that in defining and implementing its policies and activities, the union should take account of requirements linked to the promotion of a high level of employment, the guarantee of adequate social protection, the fight against social exclusion, and a high level of education, training and protection of human health. this issue is highlighted in article 10 of our resolution on the future of the social fund and is, to me, of crucial importance. that gives us our framework. i agree with many of the speakers who have argued that we need a framework to establish synergies between all european policies and the structural funds. indeed, these must act as drivers that will help us to achieve the eu 2020 targets. i also agree with commissioner andor when he says that eu citizens expect results-based delivery systems. there is also a strong argument for greater visibility of these funds, and an urgent need for simplification. i regularly speak to voluntary, community, and other groups who access these funds. they have serious issues with the levels of bureaucracy and red tape that confront them. but it is not just that usual red tape: there is also uncertainty over interpretation of the rules and regulations. we have discussed this issue of simplification again and again in committee and in plenary, and yet nothing has changed for the better. in connection with rules and regulations, a colleague recently asked me why there is an insistence on ‘pouring sand into every moving part’. given that context, this issue really needs to be dealt with. perhaps we can begin to get it right this time. finally, i would once again like to emphasise and ensure that article 9, or the ‘social clause’, permeates all our policy decisions, because that really will lead to cohesion in the eu.
a uachtaráin, go raibh maith agat. ba mhaith liom cúpla focal a rá maidir leis an bpolasaí comhtháithe. the future of cohesion policy has been framed in the context of rising unemployment and contracting public finances across europe. it is likely that the bmw (border, midlands and western) region in my country will once again fall within the 75% to 100% eu gdp range. measures must be put in place post-2013 which recognise this altered economic position in ireland and in the bmw region in particular. the focus of objective 2 programmes must be building the capacity of the regions in order to effectively contribute to the development of a greener, smarter and sustainable economy in ireland and the rest of europe. regional flights in the bmw region are an economic and social necessity. therefore public service obligation funding must be retained, as these internal flights would not survive economically otherwise. eu support for cross-border cooperation in ireland must be retained. cross-border cooperation can address fragmentation in border regions in terms of the labour market, trade patterns and infrastructure.
mr president, joined- up policies are essential to achieving results. so is a mechanism to drive change in a dynamic way, which is best achieved, in my view, by engaging all stakeholders in a structured manner. the fundamental role that services of general interest, including social services, play in economic, social and territorial cohesion, in job creation and improving quality of life has so far been ignored in this debate. at the same time as we are debating how to make eu funds more effective in delivering cohesion, council and commission policies on fiscal consolidation are undermining services of general interest which are essential to cohesion. without them, all the funds that europe can pour into the member states will be pointless. another problem is the negative impact that eu market rules are having on regional and local authorities’ right to maintain and initiate services of general interest, including social services. yes, let us have more effective funds which are result-orientated, but we must stop the nonsense, the madness of stripping our societies of essential public services.
a uachtaráin, níl mórán ama agam. dá bhrí sin, díreoidh mé ar chúpla pointe. mr president, firstly there can be no renationalisation of the esf just as there can be no renationalisation of cap. we need more, not less, europe. secondly, there is a dire need for simplification in the process of application. i have met groups who did not bother to apply, even though they are entitled to funding, because the application was so complicated. some actually had to hire an expert to do the application for them. this is ridiculous and must stop. thirdly, i think there is a need to keep both objective 1 and objective 2. i represented my group in mannheim and i saw the benefits of objective 2. i think that is important. finally, i want to say that there is also a need – even though some of my colleagues in the epp do not agree with me – to look at gdp as not being the exclusive criterion. it should certainly be the main criterion, but not the only one. i think that is a debate we need to have and i look forward to it.
mr president, we are talking about cohesion and regional policy. as some of you may already know, there is a leaked document on the future of the common agricultural policy towards 2020, which also addresses the territorial challenges of the future. so there are links between all of our policies. in each of them we want an adequately funded policy framework. i have a few points in relation to the resolution. we also need coherence in member states. we have seen where member state policies have undone the good work of cohesion and regional policy. this week we met members of regional authorities who spoke about the huge level of frustration when they are trying to access funding. their voice must be not just heard but listened to and responded to. i support this resolution.
mr president, i was pleased to vote in favour of this proposal. at the last plenary session we voted to ask the iranian government to suspend the execution by stoning of sakineh mohammadi ashtiani. that was done pending a review, but that review is most bizarre. she has now allegedly been found guilty of murder, despite the fact that another man had already been found guilty of that murder. he has now been released on the basis that ashtiani’s children forgave her father’s killer. this murder allegation is based on court documents which do not stand up. we need to use our influence to bring more pressure to bear on the iranian government to suspend the execution permanently, and maybe to grant her the asylum in brazil offered by the brazilian president.
in writing. − the draft regulation is intended to ensure that third country nationals who are legally resident within the eu and are in a cross-border situation concerning at least two member states are subject to the same rules for coordinating social security entitlements as eu nationals under the above mentioned regulations. the adoption of this legislation constitutes a major step in ensuring equal treatment to third country nationals across the territory of the eu. these people are often the victims of great discrimination on our territory and pursuant to this legislation, third country nationals will be able to move within the eu with the same guarantees when it comes to their social security entitlements as eu nationals.
in writing. − the european police college (cepol), which became an agency in 2006, has faced severe problems since its creation in abiding by minimum good administration norms to which all eu agencies are submitted. whilst i voted in favour of the report and the decision to refuse to grant a budget discharge for 2008, this is the first time that a discharge has been used against an individual organisation. nevertheless, i question the meaning of the discharge and how useful it is as a tool, two years after the event and where, as in this case, management and personnel may well have changed. thus, it is vital that we investigate whether very small agencies can be effective and can meet the administrative requirements of the financial regulations with a very small staff.
in writing. − on behalf of the irish delegation to the epp, we support the abolition of the death penalty and voted for the resolution on the world day against the death penalty. however, we voted against the amendments to the text as we see this as a crude instrument, too widely drawn, which would have no effect on the death penalty and could contribute to a lot of people losing their lives because of the illegal drug trade.
in writing. − this draft resolution calls for the strengthening of safety and security standards on eu oil platforms and an eu capacity disaster response in the event of an oil spill in eu waters. this is of pressing concern considering the recent disaster in the gulf of mexico with the deepwater horizon explosion and oil spill. this resolution would call for a moratorium on new deep sea drilling until the standards have been improved and met. i firmly believe that that drilling companies throughout europe need to improve working conditions and a way that this can be done is securing a uniformly high security standard on offshore platforms operating across the eu.
i scríbhinn. − vótáil mé i bhfábhar an rúin seo roimh cruinniú an cop 10 maidir le bitheagsúlacht i nagoya na seapáine an mhí seo. meastar go bhfuil an ráta díobhaidh domhanda idir 100 agus 1000 uair níos airde ná an gnáth ráta nádúrtha, agus is gníomhaíocht daonna is mó is cúis le seo. is cúis mhór dhíomá í nach bhfuil spriocanna 2010 maidir le héag bithéagsúlachta a stopadh bainte amach againn. is talamh talmhaíochta í 45% de thalamh an ae agus is gnáthóg luachmhar í le bithéagsúlacht shaibhir inti. tá éirithe le hearnáil na talmhaíochta cur le bithéagsúlacht an ae agus tá mórán speiceas ainmhíoch agus planda atá ag brath anois ar earnáil na talmhaíochta agus ar nósanna feirmeoireachta. mar shampla, is é an féarach caorach agus eallach a chaomhnaíonn éagsúlacht flóra an fhéaraigh oscailte. ní foláir cúrsaí bithéagsúlachta a bheith san áireamh agus nósanna feirmeoireachta á gcur i bhfeidhm. ní mór cúnamh agus tacaíocht a thabhairt do bhirt agra-comhshaoil chun úsáid inbhuanaithe na bithéagsúlachta a chur chun cinn. ní foláir aghaidh a thabhairt i nagoya ar thábhacht earnáil na talmhaíochta don chomhshaol agus ba chóir go mbeadh an tsaincheist seo lárnach agus todhchaí agus buiséad an cbt á bplé amach anseo.
in writing. − the basel committee seeks to reform the basel ii framework in order to strengthen the resilience of the banking system. the committee’s proposal aims to improve the quality of the capital base, extend and strengthen the coverage of the capital framework. the committee also intends to introduce a leverage ratio to help contain excessive build-up of leverage in the system and other supplementary countercyclical measures such as capital buffers to be built in good times. moreover, global standards on liquidity management are proposed. however, whilst there is a strong international commitment to revise the basel framework, it is crucially important that such revision strikes the right balance between various business models, investment and traditional retail banking, different legal forms and predominant financing of the corporate sector through bank lending in europe. furthermore, the european parliament must play an active role and strongly influence the revision of the rules already in the process of negotiations in the basel committee. the european parliament, as the democratically elected european body which will later on co-legislate on the commission proposal for the capital requirements directive (crd 4 directive), should be involved in the negotiations process at an early stage.
in writing. − i support this report which seeks, in light of the eu's commitments to achieve the millennium development goals and halve extreme poverty by 2015, to address the most pressing health problems in sub-saharan africa and the question of what systems can be put in place to do so. the report examines how universal, accessible and affordable health care systems can be set up and how we can share best practice from the european experience. in particular the report looks at mutual health organisations which have already been established and proven to work effectively in several african states. mutual health organisations are not intended to take the place of the state; rather, they offer an alternative, enabling the obstacles to health care access to be overcome and providing improved access to quality health care for all citizens regardless of their income. indeed, they have been able to tailor insurance provision to the socio-economic characteristics of populations in an informal economy which remain excluded from formal schemes and commercial insurance, and as a result they are an appropriate solution for achieving the goal of universal coverage in low- and middle-income countries.
in writing. − the exchange of information is important no matter what policy area it is. however in the healthcare sector it is of vital importance to swap information between countries and regions, and in this way it will be easier to examine what aspects are universal, accessible and affordable in regions other than the one it was first intended for. with this in mind i welcome this report as it shows best practice from the european experience and we can see what that is applicable to in sub-saharan africa.
i scríbhinn. − is í aidhm beartas comhtháthaithe an ae ná neamhionannas idir leibhéil forbartha réigiúin na heorpa a laghdú agus comhtháthú eacnamaíoch, agus sóisialta, atá fíorthábhachtach ó thaobh beatha agus forbairt pobal tuaithe de, a bhaint amach. vótáil mé i bhfábhar an rúin seo agus tá sé fíorthábhachtach go leanann an ae leis ag tabhairt tacaíochta d’fhás inbhuanaithe limistéar tuaithe agus iargúlta. tá thart ar €10 billiún faighte ag éirinn ó 1973 trí mheán an chiste forbraíochta réigiúnaí agus an choiste chomhtháthaithe. tacaím lena bhfuil sa rún maidir le léirsmaoineamh a dhéanamh ar thábhacht na forbartha réigiúnaí, agus é seo a ghlacadh san áireamh i mbuiséad an ae, agus maidir le beartas réigiúnach eorpach láidir le maoiniú cuí a chur chun cinn chun comhtháthú sóisialta, eacnamaíocht agus críochach a bhaint amach. ní mór don bheartas comhtháthaithe ó 2013 ar aghaidh freastal ar riachtanais na réigiún eorpach, chun cur le fás agus borradh pobail an ae. ní foláir go mbeadh an beartas simplithe agus trédhearcach. ní mór sineirge le beartas forbartha réigiúnacha agus cur chuige comhordaithe a bheith ann, á bhainistiú ar an leibhéal réigiúnach, chun spriocanna cinnte an bheartais a bhaint amach agus chun an t-airgead a dháileadh mar is chóir.
i scríbhinn. − tá todhchaí beartais comhtháthaithe á chruthú faoi láthair, agus dífhostaíocht ag fás agus airgeadas poiblí ag crapadh ar fud na heorpa. is dócha, mar shampla, go dtitfidh réigiún na teorann, lár na tíre agus an iarthair (bmw) laistigh de réimse 75% - 100% oti na heorpa arís. ní foláir bearta a chur i bhfeidhm don bhliain 2013 ar aghaidh a thabharfaí cor eacnamaíoch athraithe na héireann, agus réigiún an bmw go háirithe, san áireamh. ní mór do chláir cuspóir 2 amach anseo díriú ar chumas na réigiún a láidriú chun cur go héifeachtach le forbairt geilleagair inbhuanaithe atá níos glaise agus níos cliste in éirinn agus san eoraip. is riachtanas eacnamaíoch agus sóisialta iad na heitiltí réigiúnacha go réigiún an bmw. dá bhrí sin, ní mór maoiniú na hoibleagáide seirbhíse poiblí a chaomhnú, toisc nach bhféadfaí na heitiltí inmheánacha seo a rith gan an t-airgead seo. ní mór tacaíocht an ae don chomhar trasteorann a choinneáil. tá an cumas ag an gcomhar trasteorann dul i ngleic leis an ilroinnt i réigiúin na teorann ó thaobh an mhargaidh shaothair, na ngréasán trádála agus bonneagair de.
in writing. − cohesion policy is a basic principle of european integration as it ensures equal development and the reduction of disparities within the eu whilst also protecting social and territorial cohesion. the lisbon treaty strengthened cohesion policy and thus it is in all our interests that the future cohesion policy stimulates the development potential of the entire eu, encourages greater competitiveness of the european economy and improves the quality of our lives.
i scríbhinn. − tá tacaíocht airgeadais de bhreis is €7 billiún faighte ag éirinn ó chiste sóisialta na heorpa ó theacht isteach san aontas eorpach i 1973 di. is chun dul i ngleic le dífhostaíocht fadtéarmach agus dífhostaíocht i measc na n-óg a úsáideadh an t-airgead seo don chuid is mó. faoi chlár oibríochta an ae um acmhainní daonna d’éirinn 2007-2013, tá €375 milliún á thabhairt ag an aontas eorpach d’éirinn faoi chiste sóisialta na heorpa. is €1.36 billiún an buiséad ar fad atá ag an gclár seo. tá an t-airgead seo á úsáid chun cúrsaí oiliúna a chur ar fáil do dhaoine atá dífhostaithe, do dhaoine atá faoi mhíchumas, doíbh siúd a d’fhág an scoil go luath agus doíbh siúd atá ag imeall na sochaí. is ré an domhandaithe atá ann anois. chun aghaidh a thabhairt ar na dushláin agus na deiseanna a chruthaíonn an domhandú do lucht oibre na héireann, tá ciste sóisialta na heorpa in éirinn ag tabhairt tacaíochta freisin do chúrsaí oiliúna don foghlaim ar fad an tsaoil, gur féidir iad a oiriúnú chun freastal ar réaltachtaí margaidh saothair domhandaithe.
in writing. − the european social fund (esf) is the eu's main budgetary instrument to help social and labour market integration. however, it is clear that this resolution focuses too much on the role of the esf boosting employment and not sufficiently on its key role in supporting the inclusion of vulnerable groups, which my group, the socialists & democrats, has always strongly supported. instead, it is crucially important to focus esf support on the vulnerable groups who suffer the most as a result of the economic downturn.
madam president, last sunday i met a group of young people in ireland who are struggling to survive poverty. they asked me, as a member of this parliament, whose side i was on. was i on their side, or on the side of the bankers? that is the blunt question they asked me. they gave me a series of testimonies which they asked me to convey to this parliament. they pointed out that they are no longer interested in voting because they see no prospect in change by continuing to vote. they say that they are sick of being treated as nothing and that they feel that they have no value to society. i believe that we have to take account of what these young people are thinking. they are our future. i see no evidence that the commission is actually ensuring that the member states being urged to engage in fiscal consolidation are taking account of the fact that we must not drive these people – who are already suffering pain – into more pain, and drive people who are currently on the margins into poverty. it is extremely important that we… (the president cut off the speaker.)
in writing. − the simple aim of this proposal is to make the collection of data by type of goods mandatory for maritime transport. it is already done in the case of european road, rail and inland waterways transport and it would help improve the harmonisation in this field. the collection of data will not impose any additional burden on respondents.
i scríbhinn. − tháinig an coinbhinsiún maidir le comhoibriú iltaobhach sa todhchaí in iascaigh an atlantaigh thoir thuaidh, lena bhfuil an comhphobal agus an ae anois ina pháirtí conarthach, i bhfeidhm i 1982. is í aidhm an choinbinsiúin ná caomhnú fadtéarmach agus úsáid uasta acmhainní iascaigh an atlantaigh thoir thuaidh a áirithiú, chun leas sóisialta, inbhuanaithe agus comhshaoil a chur chun cinn. is féidir bearta rialaithe agus feidhmithe a thabhairt isteach chun a chinntiú go gcuirtear an coinbhinsiún seo agus na moltaí a ghlac coimisiún iascaigh an atlantaigh thoir thuaidh (ciatt) i bhfeidhm. baineann siad seo leis na hárthaí iascaigh ar fad a úsáidtear le haghaidh gníomhachtaí iascaireachta in acmhainní iascaigh mar atá sainithe sa choinbhinsiún. is í aidhm an togra ná reachtaíocht an aontais a thabhairt suas chun dáta. i 2006 ghlac ciatt le scéim nua chun rialú agus feidhmiú a mholtaí a fheabhsú. athrú eile ná go bhfuil córas rialaithe stáit an chalafoirt san áireamh anois, nach ligeann éisc reoite a thabhairt i dtír ag calafoirt eorpacha sa chás nach mbíonn sé cinntithe ag bratstát an árthaigh eachtrannaigh go bhfuil sé dleathach. tá bearta nua i gceist maidir le hárthaí a bhíonn i mbun iascaigh neamhdhleathaigh, neamhthuariscithe agus neamhrialaithe a rialú.
i scríbhinn. − síníodh an coinbhinsiún maidir le comhoibriú iltaobhach sa todhchaí in iascaigh an atlantaigh thiar thuaidh an 24 deireadh fómhair 1978 in ottawa agus tháinig sé i bhfeidhm an 1 eanáir 1979. is é príomhaidhm eagraíocht iascaigh an atlantaigh thiar thuaidh (eiatt) ó shin i leith ná dul i mbun comhairlithe agus comhoibrithe chun úsáid uasta a bhaint as acmhainní iascaigh sa limistéar caomhantais, chun na hacmhainní sin a chaomhnú agus a bhainistiú i gceart agus chun smaointe nua a chur chun cinn maidir le comhoibriú idirnáisiúnta a spreagadh chun bainistíocht inbhuanaithe acmhainní mara sa mhórmhuir a fheabhsú. ag cruinnithe bliantúla eiatt i 2007 agus 2008, ghlac páirtithe conarthacha an choinbhinsiúin leis an “leasú ar an gcoinbhinsiún maidir le comhoibriú iltaobhach sa todhchaí in iascaigh an atlantaigh thiar thuaidh”. déanann an leasú seo athrú suntasach ar an gcoinbhinsiún, ionas go mbeadh sé in oiriúint níos fearr do choinbhinsiúin réigiúnacha agus ionstraimí idirnáisiúnta eile agus go dtabharfadh sé nósanna nua-aimsire maidir le bainistíocht iascaigh san áireamh. dá bhrí sin, cuireann an leasú sin go mór le héifeachtacht struchtúr na heagraíochta.
in writing. − i support this report, which highlights that precarious work disproportionately affects women workers. indeed, this is further evidence for the need to enhance maternity and paternity leave provisions to enable women and men strike a balance between work and family commitments. precarious work refers to a type of non-standard employment mainly characterised by little or no job security, low level of payment, lack of social protection rights, no protection against discrimination and a work environment without minimum safety and health standards. according to the latest available data, 31.5% of employed women work part-time compared with only 8.3% of employed men. precarious work is not only a major cause of the gender pay gap between women and men but also creates an obstacle to career prospects leading to better jobs and professional development, trapping many in low-paid insecure work. indeed, often women from less developed countries come to the eu and work in low-skilled jobs, or even illegal employment. precarious work-forms prey on the weakest sections of our societies, denying people dignity in work and the chance to build a decent life for themselves and their families.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. − mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her diligent work on the budget for 2011. let me go straight to one particular point of concern for the agriculture budget, namely the clearance of accounts line. as a committee, we have re-tabled an amendment and are calling on parliament to fully support this amendment. the council have used creative accounting to find eur 420 million. if we do not get our amendment through, we will face a huge problem next year in the budget and there will be cuts across all of the budget lines in agriculture. we cannot allow that to happen as a parliament and we must call for your support right across the political groups for this amendment. i want to thank the committee on budgets for their understanding and support for the agriculture committee’s amendments on the dairy fund, on our funding for the school milk and fruit scheme, for the bee populations and the deprived persons programme. i hope the commission is right in its optimism on dairy markets. i am concerned about volatility.
mr president, a review of budgets is always necessary. it applies to families, to the european union, and it even applied to fagin in oliver twist. when his little enterprise of picking a pocket or two was not working out, he said, ‘i think we have got to think it out again’. it is good that we are thinking it out again here as well. particularly, we can do a lot to make what we are trying to do more acceptable to the member states and the citizens. firstly, the target of reducing red tape by 25% – and hopefully more – is very desirable and very sellable. secondly, we need to stop scoring own goals. unfortunately, i am in agreement with some of the eurosceptics who said that increasing the entertainment budget was not a sensible thing to do. it was grist to the mill to the eurosceptics and i think it disappointed euro-enthusiasts. thirdly – and very importantly – the whole question of creating own resources is most desirable. i think our president, mr daul, said it very well when he said that a euro spent at european level is better value than a euro spent at member state level. i think we should be going along that line and particularly encouraging venture capitalists looking at euro project bonds to finance the various projects we need. we have an r&d target of 3%. this is absolutely vital for europe if we are to be competitive and create the jobs we need. we also need to keep a strongly funded cap – pillar one to ensure that the rural society is not denuded of people, and pillar two to ensure the delivery of public goods. as well as that, the renewable energy targets and co2 emissions cannot be compromised on – nor, of course, cohesion policy, which has been very successful. if we can achieve all that, we will eventually have a 4% increase in gdp and 5.6 million extra jobs by 2020.
mr president, i think it is too early to summarise whether the document is good or bad, but it is good that we have a document because it was a long time in the process of being created. i want to make my comments on the agriculture part in particular, because i am the rapporteur for the budget for next year. i would have some concerns about the language used in the section about agricultural policy. for example, ‘a more radical reform’ and i quote the document ‘would suggest moving away from income support and market measures and giving priority to environmental and climate change objectives rather than the economic and social dimensions of the cap’. i think all of these are important: the environmental and climatic change objectives, but so too the economic and social dimension of the common agricultural policy. there is also a suggestion here that we have now a culture of dependency because of direct payments to farmers. we have a culture of reality that farmers are not getting enough from the marketplace to give them a decent income. farming comes way below the average and that has got to be addressed in any future direction in which we reform the common agricultural policy, but i welcome the document.
vice-president of the commission. − firstly, on the experience with the volcano crisis and passenger rights, we have quite comprehensive overviews showing that the airlines mostly behaved responsibly and passengers behaved rationally and reasonably, so most of these kinds of problems have been settled. of course, there are always claims and there are always problems, but nobody is talking about penalties for the airlines: it is a question of their necessary compensation. as far as i know, we deal with those claims that have not been treated particularly well. we are in contact with national enforcement bodies, but it is still in the hands of those bodies and the picture is not so bad at all. in answer to the next question, yes, we are pushing for harmonised rules for passenger rights in all modes of transport. on 30 november we will have a consultation here to discuss with council the very controversial issue of bus passenger rights. we already have legislation covering railway passenger rights, but it is less ambitious. with airlines, yes, we are pushing for a harmonised philosophy. on rail baltica, i will do my utmost to develop this project and i hope that we can cooperate with you and with all our countries to make this project a successful one.
vice-president of the commission. − the current state of play is that, following the rejection by parliament, the commission decided on 30 june 2010 to withdraw the proposal. since the directive now also covers self-employed drivers, it is for member states to demonstrate how they comply with their legal obligations and enforce the rules for self-employed drivers. the commission has requested information from member states concerning the transposition and implementation of the directive with regard to self-employed drivers. the commission will decide on any necessary action once the responses are available and have been analysed. (debate)
thank you for your response. i was just wondering if you have any proposals or guidelines that you are going to put to member states in order to suggest how they will monitor the working time of self-employed drivers, particularly the time they spend cleaning or maintaining their vehicles or doing paperwork related to the job in hand, which i believe will be extremely difficult to monitor. also, will you be looking at the socio-economic impact on owner-drivers given that their driving time will now be significantly decreased?
ní aontaím leis an gcoimisinéir ar chor ar bith go bhfuil rudaí sásúil. mar a d’admhaigh sé, in 2009 fuair 35 000 duine bás. sin toradh straitéis um shábháilteacht ar bhóithre an aontais eorpaigh idir 2000 agus 2010. cúig déag míle duine níos mó ná an sprioc laghdaithe a bhí pleanáilte ag an gcoimisiún. fiafraím den choimisinéir féin, an bhfuil aon phlean nó aon tuairimí nua aige nó ag an gcoimisiún chun an scéal a fheabhsú? níl cúrsaí ag obair i láthair na huaire. táimid ag teip.
i have a very specific question to the commissioner from the perspective of school buses. would the commission consider a proposal that there should only be one child per seat and that all children under 15 should wear seat belts on school buses?
if there are problems with the current system of cross-compliance, how are we going to address the potential of further problems if we deepen the requirements on the environmental side of pillar one, which is something contained in the leaked document on the reform of the cap? i would just like your views on that.
thank you, commissioner, for your comprehensive response. in relation to it, i just want to say that a recent investigation in ireland showed that much of the fish coming in was wrongly labelled, so that people who thought they were eating cod, for instance, were in fact eating a different fish. i just want to ask whether the commission is aware of this. what, if anything, can be done about it in the short term, apart from developing our own aquaculture, which is very, very important? i would appreciate your answer.
mr president, i am pleased to note from commissioner damanaki’s reply that aquaculture will play an important role in the new common fisheries policy. i should just like to point out to the commissioner that there are huge opportunities for job creation in the development of aquaculture, particularly in areas where there is a very high rate of unemployment. i believe that the commission can play an important role. it can take the lead in communicating the commissioner’s views to the member states and in suggesting to the member states that although we cannot compromise on the quality of food, we certainly should ensure that one body in each country will deal with aquaculture rather than cross-cutting through various departments and agencies.
in the question, you were asked which member states could serve as examples of best practice, and i also wonder which member states could serve as examples of worst practice. are you at liberty to say and maybe to give the reasons for the disparity between the best and the worst?
madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his excellent comments earlier on. this is excellent legislation, and i would like in particular to compliment my colleague barbara weiler on the manner in which she brought this through. it is absolutely fantastic work and an example of the type of good legislation that we can bring through. it will provide a better flow of money around our economies and therefore is good for business, small businesses and society in general. more importantly, it will help us with the big issue facing us all at the moment, which is the provision of jobs. this directive will provide clear strong principles that can be communicated in markets and member states to the effect that late payments will no longer be tolerated. this should create greater liquidity. companies getting paid promptly are more likely to be able to avail themselves of credit, grow their businesses and generate and create employment. furthermore, i know from recent insolvency court cases in my own country, ireland, and particularly in the construction sector, that the many late payments end up becoming bad debts and bring companies to their knees. that has been the case for a company very close to me, and mass redundancies have resulted from this. i also welcome the provision on positive naming. i think this is a good idea. it rewards good practice and creates incentives. let us not forget farmers. farmers have been suffering from failure to receive payments in time from processors and supermarkets. the multiples have been winning. hopefully these laws will give them a stronger negotiating position so that this vulnerable group in the food chain can also be better protected.
mr president, one minute it shall be. there were two statements made here this morning that i want to focus on. one by danuta hübner when she says that europe does not exist in a vacuum, and the second by mr chastel who said europe cannot grant all concessions alone. i think it is time for the european union to get tough, particularly with the g20 countries and the united nations. we are in a position where we have 11% unemployment, 20% youth unemployment, massive public debt and millions in poverty, and unless the other countries around the world are prepared to share the burden, then we should say we are not going to allow our countries to become uncompetitive and increase poverty within the european union. secondly, i want to say that, within europe, we not only need to speak with one voice but also act as one body; the self-appointed board of governors which was mentioned here this morning cannot be allowed to continue. they have an opportunity to make their case to the council.
in writing. − i abstained in the votes on the rangel reports a7-0278/2010 and a7-0279/2010. despite supporting many measures mentioned in the reports, such as increased role for the parliament in the drawing up of the code of conduct for commissioners and the enhanced role of the parliament in international negotiations, i strongly disagree with the rapporteur’s assumption that ‘the treaty of lisbon significantly deepens democracy in the eu, giving citizens of the union, mainly through parliament, a reinforced power of scrutiny of the commission’.
i scríbhinn. − tá an luaineacht sna margaí déiríochta idirnáisiúnta ag méadú le roinnt blianta anuas. rinne an €300 billiún de mhaoiniú eisceachtúil a dáileadh ar earnáil na déiríochta i mbuiséad 2010 maitheas ar leith d’fheirmeoirí déiríochta, a bhí thíos go mór leis de thoradh na géarchéime. vótálamar i bhfábhar líne buiséid nua, chun go mbeadh ciste déiríochta ann le tacaíocht a thabhairt don nuáil, don éagsúlú agus don athstruchtúrú agus chun cumhacht margála feirmeoirí déiríochta a fheabhsú ionas go bhféadfaí aghaidh a thabhairt ar éagothromaíochtaí i slabhra an tsoláthair bhia. anuas ar seo, cuirimid fáilte roimh a bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir leis an tacaíocht atá á thabhairt don scéim bainne do scoileanna agus roimh thogra an choimisiúin maidir le maoiniú na scéime seo agus maoiniú na scéime torthaí do scoileanna a mhéadú. is í aidhm an chomhbheartais talmhaíochta ná slándáil an tsoláthair bhia a áirithiú, an comhshaol agus an bhithéagsúlacht a chosaint agus ioncam ceart a chinntiú d’fheirmeoirí. chuige seo, fearaimid fáilte roimh a bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir le héileamh ar an gcoimisiún maolán airgid a chur san áireamh i mbuiséad 2011 ar eagla go mbeadh breis luaineachta sa mhargadh in 2011, rómhaorlathas a laghdú agus rochtain ar mhaoiniú a fheabhsú agus a shoiléiriú.
i scríbhinn. − vótáil mé i bhfábhar na tuarascála tráthúla seo agus i bhfábhar spriocthréimhse 30 lá le billí a íoc a chur i bhfeidhm. is bunchloch gheilleagar na heorpa iad na ghnóthais bheaga agus mheánmhéide; is 99.8% de ghnóthais uile an ae iad na ghnóthais bheaga seo agus is iad siúd a chruthaíonn 70% den fhostaíocht san ae ar fad. is bearta praiticiúla chun tacaíocht a thabhairt do ghnóthais bheaga agus mheánmhéide agus chun a chinntiú nach mbíonn comhlachtaí beaga thíos leis de bharr billí nach bhfuil á íoc iad na bearta atá sa tuarascáil maidir le dul i ngleic le híocaíochtaí déanacha. tá an cumas ag na rialacha nua coinníollacha níos fearr a chruthú don infheistíocht agus ba chóir go ligfeadh na rialacha céanna do ghnóthais bheaga agus mheánmhéide díriú ar an nuáil agus ar an bhforbairt. anuas ar seo, cuirim fáilte roimh a bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir le bheith cinnte nach gcuireann aon bearta nua leis an maorlathas atá ann cheana agus nach gcruthaítear breis maorlathais nó fadhbanna riaracháin do ghnóthais bheaga agus mheánmhéide.
in writing. − there are an estimated 85 million people throughout the eu suffering from or at risk of poverty and i believe that at a european level everything possible must be done in order to tackle it. it is vital that procedures such as this are introduced to help reduce the number of people at risk of poverty in the eu, in order to ensure that the eu2020 goal of removing the risk for 20 million european citizens is met.
i scríbhinn. − tá straitéis an ae 2020 ríthábhachtach ó thaobh iomaíochais, inbhuanaitheachta agus tréithe sóisialta an aontais de agus vótáil mé i bhfábhar a bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir le breis airde a dhíriú ar thionscnaimh a bhaineann le hearnáil an fhuinneamh, taighde agus nuáil, agus cursaí sláinte agus oideachas sna blianta atá amach romhainn. aontaím go hiomlán go mba chóir go mbeadh cursaí oideachais ag croílár straitéis eacnamaíoch an aontais agus go mba chóir breis tacaíochta a thabhairt do chláir ar nós ‘foghlaim ar feadh an tsaoil’, ‘erasmus’ agus ‘leonardo’ don oideachas agus oiliúint soghluaiste agus rochtain muintir na heorpa ar na cláir seo a fheabhsú. tá an taighde agus an fhorbairt fíorthábhachtach ó thaobh an iomaíochais de agus ní foláir tacaíocht agus spreagadh a thabhairt do mhic léinn agus do thaighdeoirí agus iad ag iarraidh leas a bhaint as an tsoghluaiseacht trasteorann, agus ní mór go mbeadh rochtain ar mhaoiniú thrédhearcach agus simplithe. tacaím chomh maith lena bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir le cumas gnóthas beaga agus meánmhéide creidmheas a fháil a fheabhsú, an maorlathas a bhaineann le conarthaí soláthair poiblí do ghnóthais bheaga agus mheánmhéide a laghdú agus ionad ilfhreastail a bhunadh chun dul i ngleic le saincheisteanna riaracháin gnóthas beaga agus meánmhéide.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the berès report because of my support for the vast majority of its contents. there is however a need for continued detailed debate on one issue in particular, a ccctb. i agree it is necessary to ensure that different corporate tax regimes do not enable companies to evade their responsibilities to support society by a share of their profits through a fair corporate tax regime. however particular attention needs to be given to the negative impact that a ccctb could have on small countries such as ireland, whose prosperity and employment levels depend to a large extent on its capacity to attract foreign investment. i wish to note also that the irish labour party does not support a ccctb.
in writing. − the fine gael meps do not support the proposal for a directive on a common consolidated corporate tax base but did see this as grounds for voting against this important report as a whole.
in writing. − i along with my labour colleagues voted in favour of the berès report because of my support for the vast majority of its contents. there is, however, a need for continued, detailed debate on one issue in particular, a ccctb. i agree it is necessary to ensure that different corporate tax regimes do not enable companies to evade their responsibilities to support society by a share of their profits through a fair corporate tax regime. however particular attention needs to be given to the negative impact that a ccctb could have on small countries such as ireland, whose prosperity and employment levels depend to a large extent on its capacity to attract foreign investment. i wish to note also that the irish labour party does not support a ccctb.
in writing. − it is very important that the rules of economic governance are reinforced, especially in light of the economic crisis that many eu countries are still going through. however, i agree with the parliament’s amendments that remove the recommendations on automatic sanctions on member states that incur an excessive deficit because, as this crisis has shown, it is necessary in extraordinary circumstances to exceed the deficit requirements in order to stave off more serious economic effects of a crisis.
mr president, there is an air of unreality about much of this debate. all these reports concerning the promotion of democratic and human rights worldwide and financing instruments for development cooperation must be seen in the context of the chilling statement made yesterday in this very chamber by the united nations secretary-general. he said that 65 million more human beings will be plunged into extreme poverty in our world this year alone. that is the harsh reality that flies in the face of fine words by government and the commission. outside the doors of this chamber huge banners with eu logos proclaim: halt poverty. at the same time the eu commission – and indeed the major groups in this parliament – are pushing neo-liberal economic policies that slash budgets and public services, savaging the living standards of ordinary people, while transferring massive resources in bailouts to banks and speculators. on financing development cooperation, the commission congratulates itself on the new tariff reductions for bananas agreed with latin america banana producers, but in reality this new arrangement is for the benefit of powerful transnational corporations. the huge banana exporters, like chiquita and del monte, will gain hugely but african, caribbean and pacific countries and small producers will be devastated. of course, the subsidy to small banana growers who face ruin because of the new agreement must not come from established social funds but from elsewhere in the eu budget. trade should be for the benefit of small producers and working people – the majority – not major transnational corporations.
president of the council. − on 7 june 2010, the council adopted the resolution of the council of the european union and the representatives of the governments of the member states meeting within the council on a new european framework on disability. this resolution calls on the member states and the commission, in accordance with their respective competences, to promote the ratification and implementation of the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, concluded by the european union on 26 november 2009. to date, the convention has been ratified by 13 member states of the european union. the council therefore clearly expects those member states which have not yet done so to ratify the convention. in particular, articles 3 and 4 of council decision 2010/48 provide that a code of conduct between the member states and the commission is to be adopted before the instrument of formal confirmation can be deposited on behalf of the european union to set out details of the contact point function conferred on the commission. work on the code of conduct is now in its final phase and should be completed by the end of the year.
i would like to thank the council for its response. i am particularly pleased to hear you say that it could be concluded before the end of this year. i think you said 13 – my figure is that 16 member states have ratified. can the council tell me what will be the impact of the eu itself ratifying this convention? you mentioned a number of articles, and there are obviously a number of articles within the convention referring to the issue of reasonable accommodation for persons with disabilities and the right to live independently. what do you think the impact of that will be? in particular, my question is what will be the impact of the eu itself ratifying the convention on those countries that have not already ratified it?
author. − thank you, council, for your response. i will pass on your appreciation to my colleague gay mitchell. could you address the realities in the different member states, which must be of concern to the council? it is a fact that the treatment you get for epilepsy depends on where you live, and there is a huge problem with the lack of neurologists in some member states. could you also address the implications of this for the cross-border healthcare package which is currently under discussion? if epilepsy is not treated, people suffer more deeply than when there is adequate treatment. it is regrettable that in different member states there are different levels of care for people with epilepsy.
president-in-office of the council, i appreciate your response and i think it is very important that we do have a positive impact in cancun, unlike what unfortunately happened in copenhagen. i would just ask a supplementary question: from the contacts i presume you have with other countries around the world, arising out of copenhagen, how confident would you be of getting agreement on binding targets? at the end of the day they have to be binding. anything else will not deal with this unfortunate situation.
i would like to thank the president for his very comprehensive reply. he mentioned the ottawa convention or mine ban treaty, we have had the international convention on cluster munitions signed in dublin in 2008, and now we have an action plan, but the reality is that the european union committed eur 1.8 billion to landmine awareness projects for the period up to 2007, but only 1.5 billion of this has actually been spent. the reality is that land mines are still being used. it is a barbaric practice; 2 000 people die or are maimed every single month and we really need to get to grips with this issue comprehensively and on an international basis.
firstly, thanks to my colleague mr higgins for raising this very important question and thanks also to the council for their comprehensive response. i think, in fairness, the european union has been pro-active in dealing with this unfortunate situation. i would like to ask the council: is it happy with the way the united nations is dealing with this issue and can it make a better contribution, similar to what we are doing?
thank you for your response. i had expected more detail but i thank you for it. the party of which i am a member, fine gael, supports the 3% target, as do all the major parties in ireland. i believe having the target and a date to achieve it is vital, not just for our own self-interest but also for the sake of the european union. i would draw members’ attention to an excellent speech delivered this morning by a former taoiseach of ireland, john bruton, a friend of this house, who speaks in very straight terms about the challenges, but also the fact that we are able to do what is set out for us in these tough targets and that ireland as a country has many qualities which will allow us to achieve the targets without suffering. there will be pain, but we will be able to manage that pain. i would like your comments on that please and also to draw your attention to that speech.
i would like to thank the president-in-office for his answer. just two points very briefly. first of all, when discussions are held with regard to the 3% deficit issue there appears to be different accounting standards used in different member states according to certain criteria. secondly, on the enforcement, what level of flexibility is there because of the current crisis afflicting all member states to allow for leverage or margins for error within that 3% figure?
madam president, clearly the 20 million people hit by the recent disastrous flooding in pakistan need immediate and substantial assistance, especially the 100 000 children left homeless by the flood and in danger of dying simply because of a lack of food. critical to food production at affordable prices are the millions of small farmers and landless farmers now at the mercy of the landlord class. the distribution of free seeds, fertilisers that are environmentally compatible and other utilities could lay the basis for a rapid recovery of food supplies, but the liquidation of landlordism in pakistan and the distribution of land to the landless is a key to food sustainability. it was 140 years ago that the irish peasantry conducted a major struggle for an end to landlordism, so it is long overdue here. tariff reductions must go to the workers and the poor and not to the landlords, corrupt state officials or the profits of industrialists. small farmers in pakistan should benefit from just prices for their agricultural products on the world market, rather than callous speculators on the commodity markets.
madam president, i do not claim to be particularly au fait with the intricacies of this situation, but i do recognise the strategic importance of pakistan. for that reason i support the point made by mr karim, that it is in everybody’s interest to have a stable regime there in a region of great volatility. i also have to say that a union which was founded on the principles of peace and prosperity for our citizens should be in the vanguard of bringing peace and prosperity to other parts of the world, so i support the proposals here this evening but i would like the commission to answer very fully the points made by mr higgins and others on the left. can they guarantee that the aid we would be giving would be going to those who deserve it and not to big traders and landlords? that is the key question this evening.
mr president, i would like to say to my colleague, mrs muscardini, that – in the words of shakespeare – you have done the state some service, because for too long we have been like a fairy godmother to the world, spreading our generosity far and wide, and being treated like a fairy in return. we have seen that in copenhagen and we see it in the united nations, but thankfully tonight we will begin to fight back and establish a level playing field for our consumers and for our manufacturers. it actually makes no sense whatsoever that goods can come into the european union from third countries without some indication of where they came from. i would like to see this going much further. my colleague, mrs dodds, said that she would like to see it extended to agriculture and this is at least a first step. we need to help our consumers to make choices, to know that the choices they are making are correct ones, that there is no counterfeiting, and there is fair play for everybody. so, well done to my colleague, mrs muscardini. we are on the road at last.
a uachtaráin, tá mo chomhghleacaí brian simpson tar éis ceisteanna an-tábhachtach ar fad a ardú agus caithfidh mé a rá nach bhfuil mé sásta ar chor ar bith leis an bhfreagra a fuair mé ón gcoimisinéir. an bhfuil sí sásta nó réidh aon rud a dhéanamh faoi ó thaobh dlí a thabhairt isteach? this is a hugely important issue and i commend my colleague, brian simpson, for raising it because if you look at the statistics things are actually getting worse. approximately 50% of the world’s shipping tonnage carries non-toxic substances as bulk goods. there has been a rapid increase in the worldwide container ship fleet – which has grown by 140% from 32.6 million to 78.3 million gross tonnes since 1984 – and the problem needs to be regulated. there is also a problem in relation to increased speed, because these container carriers travel at a much faster speed than bulk carriers. they are now travelling at speeds of 27 knots, which is a huge speed in terms of the possibility of crashes or impacts, collisions and so on. so there is a huge problem there as well. then we have the problem in relation to the actual age of the fleets themselves. when you look at the age of the fleets carrying containers, the bulk of them are in the category of 19-24 years old, which means that there is a major problem from the point of view of actual structural defects. what we need is a legislative initiative. we cannot allow a laissez-faire attitude. what we also need is a strict liability convention, so that ships travelling though eu waters will automatically have to foot the bill for non-intentional toxic releases into the sea due to the loss of containers. what i am saying in essence is that we need action because the situation is getting progressively worse and, as mr simpson has pointed out, in the bulk of cases of accidents we are talking about human error in terms of the way containers are tied down, dealt with and so on, so we really need to take the shipping companies on.
mr president, the development of an integrated maritime policy is of vital importance to the irish, the european and indeed the global economy. as an island-based economy, maritime transport is the cornerstone of irish industry. over 99%, and i repeat 99%, in volume terms of all irish trade is transported by sea. it is estimated that the irish marine industrial base is responsible for the employment of some 8 000 people generating over eur 1.5 billion within the economy annually. the sector connects the irish economy with the rest of europe and the rest of the world. the sector is strategically vital to my country and to the recovery of the irish economy. the rapidly evolving nature of the maritime sector requires a unified approach at european level, and the growth in maritime activities such as maritime transport, development, aquaculture and tourism – combined with new uses of the sea such as underwater technologies, offshore renewable energy and the blue biotech – is increasing pressure on an already limited maritime space.
mr president, i was delighted to vote in favour of this report. i would like to say that the rapporteur, my colleague mr gay mitchell, could not be here today as last night he was in ireland launching a book he had written. of course, he was recognised as mep of the year for his work in the whole development area. one point that i think we need to stress more is education. an irish educationalist once said ‘educate that you may be free’, and i think we need to home in on this a bit more in the whole area of development and third countries. finally, i just want to say jocosely that my suit was stolen from my office last night; do i qualify for development aid as a result of that?
in writing. − i welcome this report and the commission's intention to review the european standardisation system; i hope they pave the way to a modern, integrated standardisation policy. the current system has successful elements but it also contains flaws: surely it cannot be right that the outdated, 13-year-old european standard en1384 (helmets for equestrian activities) is still in use today despite concerns before its publication and 2 subsequent upgrade mandates from the commission. perhaps at last, with the adoption of this report, we can deliver a result for two-time petitioner, my constituent peter downes, whose son suffered fatal head injuries in a horse riding accident and has campaigned tirelessly ever since for an improvement in safety standards.
i scríbhinn. − tacaím lena bhfuil sa tuarascáil seo maidir le hiarradh ar an gcoimisiún na cainteanna le mercosur a chur ar ceal go dtí go socraítear ar shainordú nua a ghlacann san áireamh leas na mballstát uile. is é an tionscal talmhaíochta an tionscal déantúsaíochta dúchasach is mó in éirinn agus tá sé ríthábhachtach ó thaobh téarnaimh geilleagraí na tíre de. ní foláir nach mbaintear an bonn de. os rud é go bhfuil an earnáil talmhaíochta fíorthábhachtach do gheilleagar na heorpa ní mór go mbeadh parlaimint na heorpa an-bhainteach leis an gcaibidlíocht ábhartha ag gach céim den phróiseas. anuas ar seo, tacaím leis an leasú atá curtha leis an tuarascáil maidir le bearta a chur i bhfeidhm chun a chinntiú go mbíonn aon allmhairí talmhaíochta a thagann isteach san ae ar chomhchaighdeán táirgíochta le hearraí eorpacha ó thaobh cosaint tomhaltóirí na heorpa, leas ainmhithe, cosaint an chomhshaoil agus caighdeáin sóisialta de. déanann feirmeoirí na héireann sárobair chun a chinntiú go mbíonn na hearraí s’acu agus na próisis táirgíochta atá á n-úsáid ar ardchaighdeán, agus tá coibhéis caighdeán ag teastáil chun páirc imeartha cothrom, iomaíocht cheart agus inmharthanacht earnáil talmhaíochta na heorpa a áirithiú.
in writing. − despite agreeing with many elements of this report, i voted against in the final vote. the report explicitly supports the reopening of trade talks with the mercosur countries. while i support calls to ensure that imports from third countries are produced in a manner consistent with eu standards, an eu-mercosur association agreement will have negative consequences for agriculture in europe, particularly our livestock sector. the commission has failed to carry out an impact assessment of an agreement on agriculture in the eu since it relaunched talks with the trade bloc earlier this year.
mr president, as a member of the eu-us delegation, i take a special interest in the forthcoming summit and i am looking forward to going to the us as part of the delegation in december. it is fair to say that the us is our natural ally and, for that reason, i would dispute the statement made here this evening that the world is less secure as a result of american policy rather than more secure. if we want to point the finger, we should look at countries where there is no freedom, where there is no democracy and where terrorists are harboured before we point the finger at america. having said that, it is important that we approach further meetings and summits with the us as equals because that is what they will respect; we saw in copenhagen in particular that we were regarded – as some thought – as weaklings. that cannot happen again, particularly in issues such as quantitative easing. we have to assert ourselves and have our voices heard.
a uachtaráin, cosúil leis na cainteoirí eile ba mhaith liom an coimisinéir barnier, uachtaránacht na beilge agus jean-paul gauzès a mholadh as ucht na dea-oibre atá déanta acu. thug jean-paul samplaí den dea-obair sin. he said that there had been 1170 amendments, 200 interviews and half a dozen trialogue meetings. that certainly is hard work and hopefully it will pay off. after world war ii the leaders – schuman and others – said that this must never happen again. now 60 years on we are saying the same arising out of the economic crisis and the failure of supervision and regulation. thankfully, the new supervisory architecture will go a long way to ensuring that is the case, and today we will hopefully complete the picture through the aimf. however, i have one question and that is: are they satisfied that the reciprocity of market access which has been spoken about will establish a level playing field for the european union?
in writing. – i support this piece of legislation regulating hedge funds and private equity. while much more remains to be done in the field, this is an important step towards better regulation of the activities of alternative investment fund managers, which was met with opposition even after the 2008 financial crisis hit hard, most notably by charlie mccreevy, the internal market commissioner in charge at the time. once the new european supervisory authority becomes fully functional, fund managers will not be able to market their products in the european union unless they hold a european passport certifying full compliance with this directive. strict depositary liability will ensure that investors can always claim damages and will be informed of the reasons for potential delegation of liability. critical new clauses, which we have insisted on and which were met with resistance in the council, are the provisions combating asset stripping. employees will be protected from predatory funds bent on short-term profiteering through the destruction of viable companies. distributions to investors and capital reductions will be limited in the first two years after takeover, and employees will have access to information on the plans envisioned for their companies.
a uachtaráin, gan dabht ar bith tá dúshlán mór romhainn sa lá atá inniu ann agus tá géarghá le féachaint ar shlite nua chun na fadhbanna sin go léir a réiteach. a few weeks ago i had the privilege of chairing the launch here of the ge innovation barometer, within which there was a survey of various stakeholders. two key points emerged: 90% of respondents believe innovation is the main lever to a greater, more competitive and greener economy; 83% of respondents believe that public private-partnerships are essential to develop a more innovative europe. most people would agree with that, which is why we welcome this discussion. on this very day i hosted a lunch involving members of the council, the commission and meps on this very topic of innovation partnerships. as has been said, they are the key to the future if we want to meet our targets under the 2020 strategy – 3% of gdp and above all venture capital, which is vital also.
mr president, the osce, we are told, is about advancing political and media freedom and human rights. mr chastel, can i ask you then how you reconcile this with giving kazakhstan the chairmanship of the osce this year and the prestige of a major summit in its capital, astana, in december? are you aware that political rights in kazakhstan are cynically repressed, media freedom is obstructed and human rights are routinely crushed? trade union and social activists are routinely thrown in jail on trumped-up charges. on a delegation visit to kazakhstan in september, i received conclusive evidence of the most brutal treatment in prisons. yet two weeks ago, commission president barroso rolled out the red carpet for the man responsible for those atrocities – president nazarbayev – with not a single word of criticism. why, mr chastel? is it about iron and steel deals? the osce summit in kazakhstan should be cancelled forthwith if you are serious about standing up with the brave fighters for human, democratic, political, workers’ and social rights in kazakhstan.
mr president, i once again wish to draw attention to the case of sakineh mohammadi ashtiani. as you may know, she was due to be executed by stoning by the iranian authorities in july for alleged adultery, but following a resolution here in parliament, where many people wore ‘free sakineh’ t-shirts, and an international outcry, that sentence was commuted. it was commuted but not cancelled. instead, it was changed to execution by hanging for alleged murder. this was due to take place on 3 november, but was again postponed, following international petitions for which there were 270 000 online signatures, and interventions from various authorities around the world, especially from the french president, mr sarkozy, who made a personal intervention. however, the iranian authorities still intend to continue, and eventually to execute sakineh. i call again on the european authorities to redouble their efforts so that she is freed and that she can gain asylum or freedom in her own country, and to ensure that the state-sponsored murder of women and other human rights violations are ended in iran.
mr president, i thank mr mann for outlining these very important proposals for us. i think the most important thing in terms of the elderly is that we need to change our attitude to retirement and also to work. there should ideally be gradual retirement and voluntary retirement rather than compulsory retirement. i had a person come to me two weeks ago who said he had retired. i asked if he was 65 and he said ‘no, if i waited till next year i would have to go. i am going now on my own terms’. if he could have gone on to 67 or 70 he would have done so. i think that is a very important point that we should take on board. secondly, i think that young people in particular are disadvantaged, and youth in my country, in ireland, are the most disadvantaged group ever because now they are landed with the big debt resulting from the banking crisis and, despite being highly educated, they have one choice only, to choose their ticket abroad if they want to work; there are no jobs for them at home. we need innovation in terms of the way we employ young people. i welcome particularly mr mann’s suggestion that if they are out of work for a number of months, at least some work should be given to them. these are very positive proposals and i welcome them.
mr president, an awful lot of the undoubtedly good work done by the european union is ruined by stories of too much complication, and particularly of people trying to get funding and not being able to access it, despite going to huge efforts such as taking on people full-time for a number of months to make an application, and then not being successful. i have heard a number of stories in this regard. the same applies to applications for funding under cultural and educational programmes. if we can do one thing, it is to meet the target in 2020 of reducing red tape by 25%. in fact, that target should be raised to a 50% reduction if we can because, as has been said, in application and in auditing a lot of the good work we have done has been obliterated by stories of difficulties that arose owing to over-complication. simplification is the way forward.
thar ceann an ghrúpa alde. – a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom mo bhuíochas a chur in iúl don rapóirtéir as ucht an tuairisc seo a ullmhú maidir le tograí fuinnimh agus as ucht an airgid bhreise atá curtha ar fáil anois ag an gcoimisiún. tá eur 146 milliún curtha ar fáil do thograí a bheidh fíorthábhachtach don eoraip agus do na tíortha éagsúla agus go háirithe, mar a dúirt an coimisinéir, do na húdaráis áitiúla agus do na húdaráis réigiúnacha a bheidh, tá súil agam, ag láimhseáil an airgid nó na deontas seo. i first of all want to congratulate the rapporteur on the presentation of her report on financial assistance for energy projects. i strongly welcome this initiative, which provides for the creation of a dedicated financial instrument to support the development of energy efficiency and renewable energy projects. the financing of projects in this area will help to stimulate economic recovery in europe, and indeed in my own country, ireland, and help to create new employment opportunities and also help in the fight against climate change. in all parts of europe now, and particularly in my own country with a very high rate of unemployment, we want to ensure that all funding can be diverted into areas where jobs can be created. the funding of eur 146 million which is available under the amended proposal must be targeted towards projects that will have a rapid, a measurable and a real impact on economic recovery. eur 146 million is the funding that is available, but there is a multiplier of at least six or seven times that amount, which will be the overall investment. i believe that the establishment of a dedicated financial instrument will allow for this funding to be administered in the most efficient manner and the beneficiaries, as i said in my own native language, will include local and regional authorities. we all have a responsibility to bring this to the attention of those authorities, and our government will be making an individual application and then liaise with the regional authorities.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the livestock sector is an important traditional farming industry which represents the livelihood of thousands of producers across the eu. this sector is central to the socio-economic contribution made by agriculture to the rural areas of the european union. it is a key agri-industry in europe and even more so in ireland, as ireland is the fourth largest exporter of beef in the world. in particular, the high cereal prices exacerbate the problems for profitability amongst winter beef finishers, who have a higher dependency on cereal-based feed imports. there are three issues in particular that i wish to highlight: firstly, the necessity that the commission put in place efficient and flexible markers and measures to curb extreme market price volatility. action is also needed to close the gap between prices paid by consumers and prices received by producers. secondly, it is essential that the commission steps up measures to support the livestock sector in less-favoured areas, in particular. the next cap reform must focus on the special vulnerability of certain livestock sectors and the significant production costs that farmers undertake. under the next cap the excessive bureaucratic burden on livestock farmers must be addressed and reduced. lastly, european producers comply with the most stringent regulations in the world in terms of food safety and quality, the environment and animal health and welfare. these high standards must not put them at a disadvantage in comparison to third-country competitors. it is crucial for the long term viability of the livestock sector overall that the commission ensure that their actions on trade and agriculture do not compromise european farmers, but support the sustainability and viability of the european livestock sector into the future.
madam president, again we are here having a debate about farmers’ incomes being destroyed by markets that are, to be quite frank, slightly dysfunctional in make-up and also cannot cope with major shocks like the grain price hike we are seeing. surely it is time our farming and market system was stronger and i hope the commission and the commissioner notice yet again that the political groups in this house are further calling for an adequate cap budget post-2013. the costs of inputs and overbearing regulations are making eu farms uncompetitive and the viability of our farm sector is deteriorating. our grassland system of quality and environmentally sustainable beef production is being undercut by third-country imports. we must give our farmers a fair chance and in my experience that is all they want. the eu’s lack of self-sufficiency in grain is becoming a serious issue, not just for the beef but also for the pig and poultry industries. this motion is a statement of the seriousness with which this house takes ongoing developments in our agricultural markets. we as a parliament must intervene when we feel the situation is urgent and, to be quite frank, commissioner, our beef, poultry and pig sectors immediately need positive intervention. i look forward to your response.
mr president, i fully support the mann report. indeed i believe that solidarity between the generations is just as important as solidarity between member states. i want to highlight three particular issues. i fully agree with paragraph 24, which speaks about an end to a compulsory retirement age so that people can choose when they want to finish working, but at the same time seeks to maintain a pensionable age, so that people who want to retire can do so and receive their benefits. i was particularly pleased to see that a number of my amendments on carers and family carers were taken into consideration, in particular paragraph 125, which speaks about family carers, including the right for them to choose whether they wish to care or not, and also the ability to combine caring with paid work, and to ensure that they have full access to social security schemes and old age pensions. i am, however, equally supportive of the european youth guarantee initiative, which proposes that any young people who have been unemployed for four months or longer will be offered a job, an apprenticeship or additional training, etc., all of this to support their reintegration, or integration, into the workplace. as i said at the beginning, solidarity between the generations is crucial, especially in the current economic situation.
mr president, the commissioner said he was willing to look at market supports where necessary and will intervene when necessary, but we need some kind of certainty for livestock farmers. they are being attacked on all sides; there is a huge increase in prices, partly due to speculation. i am very pleased to see that we carried the amendment which asks the commission to deal immediately with the issue of adventitious presence of gmos in imported feeds. that is something we have control over and we should deal with it, and we have been sitting on our hands and refusing to deal with it. we also heard about the high cost of compliance with eu regulations, so that we do not have a level playing field for third country imports. but perhaps one of the most crucial issues is the whole area of the food chain. yesterday, the court of auditors issued a report on the sugar sector and one of their recommendations was that price formation be subject to regular monitoring by the commission and that the commission and the member states ensure that competition law is correctly enforced in the sector, thus ensuring the treaty objective that supplies reach consumers at reasonable prices. it is not only in the sugar sector that we need to do that. we need to do it in the whole food chain.
a uachtaráin, vótáil mé i bhfabhar na tuairisce seo agus bhí mé sásta le cuid de na pointí a rinne an coimisnéir cioloş ina oráid ar maidin. however, i want to say a couple of things. firstly, the court of auditors report yesterday was a damning indictment of the commission, showing that after eur 1.2 billion in compensation, the closure of many factories and the loss of thousands of jobs, we are now only 85% self-sufficient in sugar supply. secondly, during the week, i attended an agriculture seminar here and the same situation applied to fish coming into the european union, particularly from vietnam, some of which could even be polluted. in the livestock sector the same applies, where third countries exporting commodities into the european union can do so at an advantage compared to those within the european union. a sine qua non for the european union in addressing all these issues is to ensure that the same standards of regulation, the same checks and balances, and the same stringent enforcement applies to products coming in from third countries as to our own producers within the european union.
in writing. − i wholeheartedly welcome the approval of €7.45m in eu aid to help retrain 850 workers made redundant from sr technics. the support provided by the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is urgently needed by the workers, their families and the north dublin community, deeply affected by the closure of this company, which brought the loss of more than a thousand skilled jobs. i led an sr technics delegation to meet commissioner spidla in mid-2009, when the availability of this fund was confirmed to us. it then took the irish government six months to apply for the egf, and seven more to answer to the commission's request for clarifications. the slow and ineffective handling of the dell application risks a return of much of the allocation to brussels, and this lesson was disregarded. the irish government must act more swiftly to ensure that this aid is granted directly to those who need it, that it is not used to replace government funding, and that the training and re-skilling programmes offered are suited to the workers' needs. astonishingly, the government is only now preparing to establish a coordinator for the fund, four years after its inception.
in writing. − this directive is one of the first legislative responses of the eu for the financial crisis. this directive is a move towards the new regulatory framework and supervisory framework of the financial markets. it is a first step in a good direction for the legislative process that will hopefully be completed in the not too distant future. it is important for these systems to be in place to prevent the regulatory crisis of 2008 from occurring again.
in writing. − the eu-us relationship is one of the most important relationships that the eu has. it is such a major trading partner that anything that would help us move and work closer together is very welcome. i welcome the resolution calling for the settling of difference between the two trading blocs over issues such as the visa waiver and pnr. this resolution also calls for better convergence of financial reforms on both sides of the atlantic, which i feel is very important to avoid any future crisis like the one that we are currently experiencing from happening again.
in writing. − the concept of the european innovation partnership is a vital part of the commitments under the flagship initiative. the group which i am part of in the european parliament, the s&d, wholly endorses the "active and healthy ageing" pilot european innovation partnership and puts forward suggestions for two additional partnerships in the areas which would benefit urgently from the created value added.
i scríbhinn. − tacaím go láidir lena bhfuil sa tuarascáil seo maidir le leibhéal scileanna a ardú ionas go mbeadh oideachas ar ardchaighdeán agus deiseanna níos fearr don fhoghlaim ar feadh an tsaoil i ndán do gach grúpa agus glúin sa tsochaí. fearaim fáilte roimh an aitheantas a thugtar sa tuarascáil don mhaitheas agus don leas do shochaí an ae a dhéanann iad siúd ar fad a bhíonn i mbun oibre deonaigh, a bhíonn ag obair chun an pobal áitiúil a fhorbairt agus chun seirbhís chúraim a chur ar fáil sa phobal nó sa teaghlach. thairis sin, tacaím le tionscnamh pharlaimint an heorpa maidir le léirbhreithniú ar aosú folláin san ae a lorg agus plean gníomhaíocht don bhliain 2011, a mbeadh sé mar aidhm aige cur le dínit, sláinte agus caighdeán beatha daoine scothaosta a fheabhsú, a tíolacadh. ní mór an coimisiún a mholadh as a ghairm chun gnímh maidir le dul i ngleic le sáraithe ar chearta daoine scothaosta agus maidir le cosaint a thabhairt do dhaoine scothaosta sa phobal agus i dtithe altranais.
in writing. − i support this report, which makes a number of important proposals to tackle the demographic challenges we face in a spirit of solidarity between generations. insufficient welfare provisions, inadequate social services and high levels of youth unemployment contribute to late marriage and childbirth, thus accelerating the aging of our populations. both the young and the elderly experience different forms of age discrimination, particularly as regards access to the labour market and certain social services. while member states control key instruments such as national budgets, pension and healthcare services, the eu can further the reach of anti-discrimination legislation, particularly to protect older women in the labour market. moreover, women of all ages often care for young and elderly dependents. their work is in itself an example of intergenerational support and needs socio-economic recognition, although not as a substitute to the development of quality care services. as atypical and precarious forms of work become increasingly common, the right to a decent pension at the age of retirement is threatened. this trend can only be countered by economic policies focused on growth, respect for workers' rights and the provision of quality public services.
in writing. − ireland's society is ageing at an unprecedented rate. this initiative contains several suggestions to the commission that would help deal with the problems that countries throughout europe will face with in the coming decades. this report was careful to emphasis the solidarity between the generations and is clever to ensure that nobody thinks that there is one single solution to the ageing society and the problems that are entailed with it.
i scríbhinn. − tacaím go láidir lena bhfuil sa tuarascáil seo maidir le gníomh a chur i bhfeidhm chun forfheidhmiú creatchláir an ae um thaighde a shimpliú. cuireann rómhaorlathas agus cúinsí riaracháin agus rialúcháin troma le castacht an phróisis iarratais agus cuireann siad leis an deacracht a bhíonn ag eagraíochtaí beaga agus gnóthais bheaga agus meánmhéide agus iad ag déanamh iarracht maoiniú a bhaint amach don taighde atá i mbun acu. os rud é go bhfuil an pobal taighde féin ag lorg go ndéanfar na rialacha a comhoiriúnú, na nósanna imeachta agus na riachtanais a shimpliú, agus breis muiníne a chur i maoiniú taighde an ae, tá sé rí-léir anois go bhfuil gá ann barr feabhais éifeachtach a chur ar mhaoiniú agus riaradh taighde chun a chinntiú go bhfuil an taighde agus nuáil éifeachtach agus leathan ann ar fud na heorpa. bheadh deathionchar ag an simpliúchán agus an éifeachtúlacht seo ar chúinsí taighde san ae agus bheadh sé chun leasa na páirtithe leasmhara chomh maith. tacaím le héileamh na parlaiminte maidir le próiseas simpliúchain a chur i bhfeidhm ar mhaithe le seasmhacht agus le cinnteacht dhlíthiúil.
in writing. − with the growth of the european research and innovation programmes and those applying for funding it is important that those who are applying for it will not be bogged down with the process and this move to simplify the programme is much welcomed.
a uachtaráin, mar fheisire éireannach ní féidir liom a rá go bhfuil mé róbhródúil faoi cad atá ag tarlú i mo thír féin faoi láthair. ach táim cinnte go bhfuil fonn ar an gcuid is mó dár saoránaigh pé rud atá le déanamh a dhéanamh chun rudaí a chur ina gceart. and to put things right in ireland, two things are necessary. firstly, unfortunately we have had to turn to the support from the ecb and the imf in the short term. secondly, and more importantly, the supervisory architecture of the authorities in europe needs to work effectively so that the cosy relationship between dodgy banks, sleepy regulators and weak governments does not happen again in the future. thirdly, i just want to ask people to lay off a little in regard to corporation tax, because, firstly, it is a matter of subsidiarity; secondly, other countries in the eu have similar rates; and thirdly, it would exacerbate a very difficult situation in ireland at the moment. dá bhrí sin, tá a fhios agam go bhfuil fonn ar mhuintir na héireann rudaí a dhéanamh agus go dtiocfaidh feabhas ar chúrsaí amach anseo.
madam president, commissioner rehn and mr trichet have given us more information here this evening than the irish government, which has misled us and lied to us for months. they have been more concerned to defend their historical legacy than to defend the future of our people’s livelihoods, and indeed ireland’s and europe’s currency. my appeal to commissioner rehn and mr trichet tonight is that they ensure that the time-frame for aid and the targets for deficits and debt are such that the social objectives of europe are taken into account, as well as the need to ensure that ireland’s capacity to grow its economy and create jobs is not undermined. will you confirm also that you fully understand that increasing ireland’s 12.5% corporation profits tax is not a solution to ireland’s crisis, nor indeed europe’s current crisis, but could in fact create an economic and jobs wasteland in ireland?
madam president, i would like to put a question to mr trichet. as president of the european central bank, why have you and the european commission utterly capitulated to the speculators and assorted sharks on the international financial markets? you allowed them to engineer a panic in the markets over the irish crisis – a panic designed to get you to intervene to guarantee the bond holders the billions that they gambled in bad debts. because they threatened you that they would attack portugal and spain next, you and commissioner rehn utterly capitulated to a market dictatorship that is unelected, faceless and unaccountable. can i ask you to justify this? private speculators and bondholders gamble tens of billions in private deals with private developers and private bankers in ireland for private profit, and when the gamble fails, you support the pathetic government in ireland to saddle working people, pensioners and the poor with the cost of this gamble. now you have sent in the imf as the shock troops for neoliberal capitalism to make the irish people pay. morally and in every other way they should not pay and they must resist this disastrous attack on their services, living standards and democracy.
madam president, mr batten is right. the irish government horribly mismanaged our country, and it is a sad day for the irish people that we are mentioned in this chamber in these particular circumstances. but we are in a situation where we need solidarity. perhaps mr batten does not understand that word, or that ireland needs england as much as england needs ireland and its economy. we are all very much interlinked: let us not forget that. can i just ask some questions? because in these emotional times we need some cool heads and clear information. where stand the bank stress tests this evening, when the irish banks appear to be absolutely overstretched and stressed out? secondly, there is a question for the ecb to answer about what its mandate is. i think that was inferred in the opening remarks, because there are interlinked relationships between all banks. those banks from germany and france and other countries who invested in irish banks need to look at what they did and why they did it. lastly, there is political instability this evening in ireland. it is regrettable, but it is necessary that we have a general election.
rapóirtéir. − a uachtaráin, a choimisinéir, a chomhghleacaithe, ar an chéad dul síos ba mhaith liom buíochas ó chroí a ghabháil leo siúd ar fad a chuidigh liom agus an tuarascáil thábhachtach seo maidir le bolmáin san atlantach á hullmhú: na scáthrapóirtéirí, rúnaíocht an choiste um iascach, an pelagic rac, an comhairleoir beartais ón ngrúpa agus an comhairleoir ó m’oifig féin. ba mhaith liom buíochas a ghlacadh chomh maith leis an choimisiún agus leis an chomhairle as a gcuidiú agus as a dtacaíocht. is é an comhoibriú agus an plé, agus na smaointe ó na daoine seo uile, a chinntigh go raibh mé in ann an tuarascáil seo – a mbeinn ag súil go mbeadh glacadh go ginearálta leis – a chur faoi bhur mbráid inniu. the western stock of horse mackerel is one of the most important stocks for the fisheries sector in europe. the proposal is based on the implementation plan agreed by the european commission and the un world summit on sustainable development in 2002. at this summit, the commission agreed to maintain or to restore fish stocks to levels that can produce the maximum sustainable yield. the subsequent proposal by the european commission was drafted in close cooperation with the pelagic resource assessment group (rag), which had originally put forward this proposal. egg surveys for horse mackerel have been conducted every three years since 1997. the data collected was insufficient to allow the scientists to make a full assessment as to the health of the stock. the proposed management plan addresses these difficulties by establishing a formula for vessels in the horse mackerel fishery, known as the harvest control rule. this rule provides for a mechanism for calculating an annual ceiling of maximum allowable landings of horse mackerel harvested from the defined area. the plan was expected to come into operation in late 2009 but was delayed due to the adoption of the lisbon treaty. of course i fully respect the rights of the council to set and to allocate fishing opportunities. i met with representatives from the belgian presidency prior to the adoption of my report in the fisheries committee. they suggested a proposal which would provide the council with a degree of flexibility in terms of the total removable amount when setting the total allowable catch. i believe that this proposal by the belgian presidency, which was subsequently adopted by the fisheries committee, protects the council’s exclusive right under the treaties to set and to allocate fishing opportunities. i would like to discuss the amendments proposed by the ppe, the s&d and the gue/ngl political groups in relation to area 8c – in other words, the bay of biscay. i would like to inform the house that, as rapporteur, i support the amendment tabled by the socialists but cannot accept the ppe and the gue/ngl amendments. i will give my reasons for that. the scientific advice is clear. this is one stock which covers the entire geographical area. should parliament adopt the ppe and gue/ngl proposal, it would make a nonsense of the management plan to introduce two separate tagged areas for one stock. if we did this, it would establish a very dangerous and a very serious precedent for future mackerel management plans. we could not agree to the splitting of a single fisheries stock. those who wish to support this will be doing so for their own personal reasons and for the reasons of their member states, but this is a common fisheries policy and we must adhere to this. i appreciate that our spanish and portuguese colleagues may have concerns, and i have included those concerns in amendment 7 in the draft report. it states that this plan shall be implemented taking account of artisanal fisheries and historic rights. in conclusion, this amendment is acceptable to the council and the pelagic rag and takes into consideration the views expressed by the spanish and portuguese colleagues. but let us keep the policy as it is.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their reports, and in particular mr gallagher. two things jump out at me immediately in hearing the discussion that has gone on. the first thing is that the whole concept of creating an opportunity to allow for a split within the tacs in one fishery is irresponsible to the extreme. we should strongly oppose that. secondly, with regard to the issue of discards, maybe now is the time to look at creating a grey market for those discards. they are by-catches to normal fishery operations and instead of them being thrown back into the water, why not allow them to be landed and pay for the cost of catch – not a market price, but the cost of catch. this can be used as a replacement for the thousands of tonnes of imported fish, coming from the far east and other places, to fill other markets within the european union. this can be a win-win situation. it can reduce the amount of discards and also ensure that fishermen are not throwing back a valuable product.
a uachtaráin, ní údarás ar an scéal seo mise, ach ós rud é go dtagaim ó thír oileánach tá a fhios agam go bhfuil iascaireacht an-tábhachtach don phobal cósta ar fud na héireann. my esteemed irish colleague mr gallagher, who is an authority on this topic not just in ireland but beyond, made some very pertinent points when he spoke about the nonsense of shared quotas for two separate areas for the one stock. my group, the ppe group, has a different view. at the same time, what mr gallagher says seems to be logical, as horse mackerel is a transient species. so i would like the commissioner’s response to that in particular: not a personal response but one based on scientific evidence. i would also agree with colleagues regarding discards, and i would also like to see us developing aquaculture much more... mar amach anseo, beidh níos mó agus níos mó éilimh ar iasc agus tá súil agam go mbeidh gach saghas éisc ar fáil do shaoránaigh.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner and colleagues for their contributions, as well as the shadow rapporteurs, the secretariat of the fisheries committee, the council, the commission, my group’s policy adviser, and indeed my own adviser. i understand that the council, at a technical level, is divided as to whether or not the harvest control rule should be exclusively decided by the council. i also understand that the 27 ministers have yet to discuss this dossier in full, and this issue in particular. i hope that common sense will prevail. with regard to the commissioner’s difficulty with +/-5 000 tons, i would say to you, commissioner, that this was a pragmatic solution. we have been dealing with this dossier for over a year now and it was a way forward. i believe that at times we have to be pragmatic in order to overcome the difficulty. i would like to say to those in the s&d group that there is absolutely no ambiguity about my position in relation to your amendment. i will certainly be recommending that we support that amendment. in relation to the ppe group’s proposal, i would say that the ppe group should reflect on this. i was very careful to include its concerns in amendment 7, which deals with the bay of biscay. it deals with artisanal fisheries and historic rights. anyone who supports that must remember that we will have many more reports in parliament. if you support something that is wrong now, it may well be that, if you are to be consistent, you will have to support something that is wrong in the future. scientifically, it is totally wrong to split a tac, and that is not just my personal opinion. if we do it now, we may well have to do it in the future in a one-stock fishery. multiannual plans are vital to allow the sector to plan forward. hopefully good sense will prevail tomorrow and we will put in place a report that we can stand over.
madam president, we would all like to see patients using the existing information that is available to them. we need to create awareness among citizens about the use of the information currently available. i support colleagues here who say that we should not advertise products, and would say to the companies involved that communicating quality information to consumers is the best form of advertising, because if a product works for the citizen, then that is a clear message that it will be used where it is required. of course, we need to have general practitioners communicating medical and scientific information to their patients. this often does not happen in the best possible way. finally, we also need to be clear about how medicaments are allocated to citizens of different age groups. they are prescribed today with no review of the case for a year. this is very dangerous, and we need to have much more rigorous assessment of how patients are cared for, on a regular basis. otherwise we will have medical problems.
madam president, as an irish mep, i am well aware that the eyes of europe are on my country’s economic woes right now. the crisis in my country was caused by greed – pure greed – among the political and big business elite. these people squandered the wealth created by an energetic and innovative population, and they must be held accountable. however, the crisis was also caused by lax regulation of the banking sector. that failure also extends to europe. one should remember last july’s banking stress tests, when the commission effectively signed off on the future of the very banks in ireland that are at the heart of the crisis. how could this happen? i am very angry that my country has reached this point – very angry indeed. i very much welcome the solidarity that has been shown by our colleagues across europe, particularly in providing finance to stabilise our economy. however, i do believe we are at a crossroads for the future of the eu. ireland is very much a sovereign nation and any diktats from europe about ireland’s taxation policy would, i believe, cross a dangerous line when it comes to the treatment of smaller nation states in the union.
madam president, i too wish to speak about the current economic crisis, but from a different perspective. today we heard jean-claude trichet and olli rehn speaking of the need for fiscal rectitude and calling on ireland and portugal and other countries to adhere to the stability and growth pact. yet as part of a eurobarometer survey, the findings of which have emerged today, over 27 000 citizens throughout the eu and 1 000 citizens in ireland were asked for their views as to how we should emerge from the crisis. to focus on just two issues, one question asked citizens to rank in order of preference how we could rapidly move out from the crisis. while 29% of eu citizens and one third of irish citizens did favour reducing public spending, two thirds of eu citizens and 57% of irish citizens favoured boosting the economy first of all, or combining both approaches. a question on policy priorities showed that over 50% of both eu and irish citizens reckoned we should tackle poverty and social exclusion first. so there is a real divergence between those two sets of views. we are not responding to citizens’ concerns adequately, and i think we need to review our priorities.
rapporteur. − mr president, i note that amendment 29 has been withdrawn by the socialists for reasons that i cannot understand, so therefore – to ensure that we can vote on this – on behalf of the alde group i confirm that we will take over this amendment. i deem this to be very serious and would ask members to consider the fact that, while many might not fully understand the science of this, if we do not accept the socialist amendment and accept the ppe amendment it means that we are going against the advice of scientists and are creating two total allowable catch areas within a single stock. i advocate that we vote against the ppe and that we adopt the socialist report now that the socialists have withdrawn the amendment, for reasons perhaps better known to some of those in the southern part of europe.
mr president, i want to explain the reason why i voted against amendments 30 and 31 to article 5 of the gallagher report: for the very simple reason that it would separate the bay of biscay tac from the rest of the area. the justification was simply that there are many small local fishing boats in that particular region that do not have a big impact on the stocks of mackerel in the waters. the argument i would make is that every coastal community, virtually in every country, could make the same argument in order to protect the interests of their fishermen. the scientific, technical and economic committee does not seem to suggest that we can separate the fish stocks in the waters. fish are a transient species, they move around, and this separation is not in accord with the lisbon treaty. the plan for the long-term management of the stocks within the north atlantic should not be fiddled with. if we have a common fisheries policy it should be common for all, no exceptions, no exemptions, and the long-term consequences of this are quite serious.
i scríbhinn. − tacaím go láidir lena bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir le tacaíocht a thabhairt do chinneadh an choimisiúin eur 13.02 milliún ó chiste dlúthpháirtíochta an ae a chur chun feidhme chun leasa na héireann chun infrastruchtúr a athchóiriú agus chun bearta le tuilte a chosc a chur i bhfeidhm sna ceantair a buaileadh. dhein na tuilte in éirinn i mí na samhna 2009 an-chuid damáiste do thithe, d’fheirmeacha, do ghnólachtaí, d’infrastruchtúr, do bhóithre agus d’fhoinsí uisce sna ceantair a buaileadh. cabhróidh an t-airgead seo ón gcoimisiún le roinnt den chostas a bhí i gceist ag am na héigeandála a íoc. tá sé fíorthábhachtach chomh maith a mhéid a bhaineann le hinfheistiú a dhéanamh chun bearta a chur i bhfeidhm le tuilte a chosc sna ceantair atá i gceist.
i scríbhinn. − fearaim fáilte roimh chinneadh pharlaimint na heorpa faomhadh a thabhairt d’iarratas rialtas na héireann maidir le cúnamh airgid a fháil ó chiste dlúthpháirtíochta an ae don fhóirithint i ndiaidh na dtuilte. rinne na tuilte in éirinn an-damáiste ar fad sa tír, go háirithe in iarthuaisceart na tíre. faoi chiste dlúthpháirtíochta an ae beidh eur 13 mhilliún á fháil ag éirinn. úsáidfear an t-airgead seo chun roinnt den chostas a bhí ar na húdaráis áitiúla a íoc ag am na héigeandála ag deireadh na bliana 2009 a chlúdach. is eur 520.9 milliún costas iomlán an damáiste a rinneadh agus – creid é nó ná chreid – tá an tsuim sin níos ísle ná an tairseach atá i bhfeidhm faoin gciste dlúthpháirtíochta. thug an coimisiún eorpach a fhaomhadh don eur 13 mhilliún a bheidh ag dul go héirinn, áfach, toisc gur aithin an coimisiún gur tubaiste réigiúnach ar leith a bhí sna tuilte a bhuail éire ag deireadh na bliana 2009.
in writing. − i was pleased to support this proposal and would like to express my country’s appreciation for the solidarity funding allocated to our country as a result of november 2009 flooding. i attended a floods forum in ireland last week and there were many expressions of gratitude when i mentioned it was to be voted in parliament today.
in writing. − this initiative by the parliament is of special importance this year as it gives meps a chance to give their opinion on how the european central bank has reacted to the banking crisis. how we voted on this also gave us a chance to have our say on some of the other aspects of the current economic climate, such as causes of the crisis, governance and financial market reform. it is important that the voice of the people’s branch of the european union is heard on such an important topic.
i scríbhinn. − cruthaíonn an tuarascáil seo agam plean bainistíochta fadtéarmach do cheann do na stoc éisc is tábhachtaí san eoraip. cinnteoidh an plean fadtéarmach don bholmán go mbeidh an stoc in ann an t-uastoradh inbhuanaithe a bhaint amach amach anseo. is í an chomhairle chomhairleach réigiúnach pheiligeach a mhol an togra i dtosach, togra a dhéanann cur síos ar chomh tábhachtach is atá earnáil pheiligeach na heorpa ó thaobh bhainistíocht inmharthana na stoc éisc de. bhí feisirí ón spáinn agus ón bportaingéil ag iarraidh dhá limistéar a chruthú don ghabháil iomlán incheadaithe; níl ciall ar bith leis an moladh sin agus dhéanfadh sé dochar do chabhlach pheiligeach na héireann. d’éirigh liom na leasuithe sin a mhaolú sa vóta deiridh. tá an tuarascáil seo ar cheann de na chéad tionscnaimh reachtúla iascaigh ar glacadh leo faoi chonradh liospóin agus dá bhrí sin bhí roinnt moille nós imeachta i gceist léi.
in writing. − this proposal aims at ensuring an exploitation of living aquatic resources that provides sustainable economic, environmental and social conditions. while it is still on the first reading there is a possibility of introducing amendments at the further stages. the general direction of this proposal is positive and thus it should be given time for others to have their say.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as i agree with the fundamental point that there should be ‘transition’ regulation in this sector. while coal and the mining of it contribute hugely to pollution, in some countries they also provide huge employment. therefore the ending of some of these aids so suddenly could potentially have a serious effect on some of the member states in the eu, but it is important for the sector to realise that they should not rely solely on these aids in the future.
in writing. − i support this report on the work of the african, caribbean and pacific (acp)-eu parliamentary assembly. the trade commissioner’s positive response to the request by acp countries for a review of contentious elements of the economic partnership agreement (epa) negotiations is welcome. future epa negotiations, as well as eventual implementation, should be the subject of closer parliamentary scrutiny. the parliaments of acp countries should press for their involvement in the adoption and execution of the country and regional strategy papers, as these are the main programming tools for development assistance. in order to help address the parliamentary assembly’s concerns regarding the repercussions of the current crisis on the developing world, we need to work on additional sources of financing, especially an international financial transactions tax. the acp governments, on the other hand, need to show an increased commitment to fighting against tax havens, tax evasion and illicit capital flight. the establishment, at the beginning of the current term, of a permanent european parliament delegation for relations with the pan-african-parliament is a very positive step, which will contribute to consolidate the increasingly political engagement of the acp-eu parliamentary assembly.
in writing. − the group which i am part of in the european parliament has amended the original report quite substantially. it now calls on the acp governments to include stronger clauses on non-discrimination and help fight against tax evasion and tax havens. greater involvement of the acp national parliaments and civil society – through financial and technical support – is needed in order to enhance the acp-eu cooperation.
in writing. − this resolution calls on the commission and the council to ensure that parliament is fully consulted on the organisation and arrangement of judicial training. this initiative will aid the concept of a european judicial culture so that the entire citizenry of the eu will be treated fairly and with dignity.
(blue-card question to mr cohn-bendit under rule 149(8)). mr president, it is indeed and i think you failed to catch my eye. i have a comment and a question to mr cohn-bendit, lest you think that irish ears are not listening to you. would you accept that your comments in relation to corporation tax will harm, rather than help, this situation? rather than your disparaging remarks about the irish looking for help, do you not accept that helping ireland is the european union helping herself? i say that as an irish mammy because i think you used that comment. let us be very adult in this house about what we say about other nation states, with respect.
mr president, this has been a most important debate – particularly the political aspects of it – but i think it is also important to talk about some of the practical parts of the debate. i am the rapporteur for agriculture for the 2011 budget, and there will be real implications if we do not reach agreement on the budget for the cash-flow of member states who have made advance payments to their farmers in recent weeks. these farmers are facing financial difficulties and income shortages. so there are very real and practical implications and this is just one of them. but let me talk about the future. right now we are debating the future of the common agricultural policy and we are asking that policy to deliver more for europe in terms of environmental issues, food security and the territorial dimension, and yet all of the debate thus far has been about how can we shrink the agriculture budget. i am very concerned that, in this debate about budget 2011, we are projecting a very negative view of the budget for agriculture and the european union post-2013. the two are very much linked and i think we need to be aware of that.
mr president, first of all president barroso talked in his introduction about introducing some measures on posting of workers. he was not specific on this, but i would remind him that he made a very specific commitment in the hearings, before he was reappointed as president, to revise the posting of workers directive, so that social dumping would be prevented as a result of its operation and the court cases that arose from it. i would like to remind him of that. could i also make the point that it is extremely essential that we introduce legislation to provide legal certainty for those in the member states who provide social services of general interest? there seems to be a complete blindness on the part of the commission with regard to the problems that exist in that area. i am working on a report on that at the moment and i will come back to this early next year. i also welcome the poverty platform, but i have no evidence at all that the commission is using the 2020 strategy on which the platform is based, for instance in the current negotiations with the irish government about resolving the problems there. if the 2020 strategy is not the framework for those negotiations, what is the framework? what is the european contribution to resolving the difficulties in ireland, other than resolving the issues of the banks? could i just make one final point? i think it is entirely putting the cart before the horse for any member of this parliament to talk here about establishing a minimum corporation profits tax across the european union without also talking about a common fiscal policy, without also having a budget strong enough to provide the cohesion necessary for weak and peripheral states, and a whole range of other european policies that need to be put in place before we can seriously talk about a corporation tax being the same right across the european union.
a uachtaráin, ar dtús cuirim fáilte roimh obair an choimisiúin chun an clár oibre seo a chur chun cinn. tá an taontas eorpach ag déanamh gach iarracht deireadh a chur leis an ngéarchéim eacnamaíochta seo. ach, in ainneoin an méid oibre atá déanta agus atá fós romhainn, ní féidir linn dearmad a dhéanamh ar na daoine sa tríú domhan. mr president, as the joint ppe coordinator on the development committee, may i say that it is absolutely shocking to understand that, after we agreed to meet a commitment of 0.7% of gnp to assist the developing world, that budget is the first budget – or is certainly in the front line – to be cut every time there is financial retrenchment in our member states. i understand – we all understand – that when gni goes down, the contribution will go down, but it should not go down as a percentage of gni and then go down again. i ask the commission to do everything in its power, so soon after the millennium development review in new york, to ensure that member states face up to their commitment. we are not asking them not to reduce their contributions. we are asking that they do not reduce their contributions as a percentage of their reduced gni.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, commissioner, i will deal with just one of your four key priorities: stronger policies to promote job creation and demand for labour. according to this document, recovery must be based on job-creating growth but, since the economic crisis, economic growth in europe has been uneven and weak. as an irish mep, i am acutely aware of how we are being told to implement austerity measures and the real fear is that this will smother any opportunity for growth. so my question is: will this agenda for new jobs and growth not apply to ireland or greece or, indeed, any country that is implementing these severe austerity measures? where will the growth come from and, consequently, where will the jobs come from? there are excellent ideas in this document; i am not trying to minimise them. one crucial one is how we connect our investment and research and development and innovation to the production system itself. there is an absolute necessity to lock the two together. proposals to engage the social economy, co-ops, mutual societies and microenterprises in a sustained effort to provide employment opportunities at local level are very timely and, indeed, i believe that mobilisation at local level and on a not-for-profit basis, through mutual societies, can be a driver for sustainable development. the promotion of entrepreneurship will allow citizens themselves to play a real part in our economic recovery. the matching of skills to jobs is crucial, but i am very concerned on many fronts, commissioner. last week i hosted a meeting in parliament on social inclusion and mental illness and a mild-mannered lady from austria said that politicians have to stop talking about jobs and growth – nobody believes them! i do not know about you, commissioner, but that shook me. i am not saying that that feeling is widespread, but it is spreading, and i think that is why our words here have to be translated into action. there is a real urgency about this and we need to start thinking outside the box. yes to green jobs, digital jobs, but do not forget local jobs and, as i said, the promotion of a not-for-profit ethos, not as a replacement, but as a counterbalance to the profit-driven model, which right now threatens the euro and the stability of the union.
mr president, i should like to thank the commissioner for his very comprehensive response to the question. i have two questions, firstly regarding the 2020 strategy. is he confident that we will reach the 20% target for renewable energies in that strategy? secondly, he mentioned grids. how realistic, desirable and affordable would a europe-wide grid be, and is it attainable?
i thank the commissioner for that response. this word ‘restructuring’ is being bandied about a lot outside the house. could the commissioner tell the house if he sees any possibility for a takeover or merger of part of anglo irish bank with any other entity as a possible contribution to this, or does he anticipate that the bank will eventually be wound down? in that case, will the irish taxpayers get some, or all, of their money back? what is the commissioner’s view on that?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his answer as well. with regard to the specific issue of anglo, is it the view of the commission that anglo is different to the existing clearing banks, as we call them in ireland, like allied irish banks, bank of ireland, ulster bank and so on? secondly, with regard to the clarification that he was talking about, is this also linked into the proposal coming forward from the government in ireland tomorrow with regard to the banking finance facility which is being discussed with the imf and with the european central bank?
member of the commission. − actually the questions are rather similar and here i have to emphasise that in the case of greece we had a huge deficit which needed to be addressed. we all know that, in addressing the deficit, there are no miracle solutions. the member state has either to reduce expenditure, increase taxes or both in order to consolidate its fiscal position. the commission’s attitude to this is very clear: that it is the member state which has to choose the measures to address the shortfall. greece chose a mixture of measures on both the expenditure side and the revenue side. the commission cannot dictate to the member states what specific taxes they can increase or reduce. it is the member state which decides on this matter. so far the greek programme is functioning well and i believe that the greek authorities will take all necessary future measures to fix their fiscal position.
member of the commission. − in relation to border controls, customs controls must balance the protection of a range of eu financial, safety and security interests with the interests of legitimate traders. for this reason, a community risk management framework was developed enabling customs controls for security and safety to be carried out on the basis of common risk criteria and standards. in the eu, 1.5 million tonnes of sea cargo and 12 million tonnes of air cargo are checked each year. under article 209(1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the member states’ customs services are responsible for the application of the eu legislation concerned. therefore, they are in charge of organising customs controls at physical frontiers and elsewhere on the basis of risk management techniques as specified in the eu’s customs code. with regard to cigarette smuggling, the commission plays an active role in helping member states to tackle the phenomenon of international cigarette smuggling and to dismantle the criminal gangs responsible for this trade. in particular, the european anti-fraud office assists law enforcement authorities throughout the european union with their operational cases and coordinates major customs and criminal investigations with the member states and third countries. using the provisions of european mutual assistance in customs matters and a number of agreements concluded between the eu and third countries, olaf organises joint customs operations between eu member states and with third countries aimed at targeting specific problems, such as operation matthew ii, targeting road traffic on the eastern border, or operation sirocco, focussed on deep-sea container transports from china to the union. finally, olaf provides financial support to member states from the hercule ii programme for measures specifically targeting cigarette smuggling, such as the purchase of specialist x-ray scanning equipment to be used at border points and the organisation of regional actions. moreover, cooperation agreements were signed with british american tobacco and imperial tobacco limited in 2010, and agreements were signed with philip morris international and japan tobacco international in 2004 and 2007 respectively. these legally-binding agreements provide a comprehensive set of measures designed to limit the presence of the products of these companies on the illicit tobacco market.
i want to thank the commissioner for his very comprehensive reply. as he said, tobacco smuggling is a very lucrative business. there is a lot of ingenuity, they are perfectly wrapped, perfectly presented and perfectly labelled. recently i met with the head of the customs authorities in ireland in dublin castle, and she told me that one in every five cigarettes – 20% of the cigarettes smoked in ireland, a small country – actually comes via china, and that when they actually seized them and analysed them they found a mixture of tobacco and canine excrement. we really need to tighten up our regulations. i welcome international cooperation, but we still have an awful lot of work to do. i would basically ask that olaf, the eu anti-fraud agency, needs to be given increased resources.
member of the commission. − i will try to be very brief. the answer in this case is probably not needed, but i would like to share your concerns. next month i am going to china to discuss, among other issues related to customs matters, the issue of cigarette smuggling. we are implementing a number of measures, working together with the chinese authorities, in order to address this issue. it is true, as you rightly pointed out, that china is still a major source of counterfeited cigarettes, so we have to work in close cooperation with them in order to tackle this issue. i have to emphasise that the chinese authorities are ready for this cooperation.
member of the commission. − do you mean these three questions on the ccctb? the commission has no plans to make proposals on corporate tax rates. differences in rates allow a certain degree of tax competition to be maintained in the internal market. in addition, fair tax competition based on rates offers more transparency and allows member states to consider both their market competitiveness and budgetary needs in fixing their tax rates. in relation to the issue of corporate tax bases, conversely the commission has been working for some time on a proposal for a common consolidated corporate tax base. this initiative is included in the commission work programme for 2011 as a strategic initiative to tap the potential of the single market for growth. it is also quoted as a key proposal in the single market act, which was adopted on 27 october 2010. currently, the commission's plan is to adopt a proposal by the end of the first quarter of 2011. the ccctb is a common system of rules for calculating the tax base of companies; it has no bearing on tax rates. member states will continue to decide their own corporate tax rates. the commission believes that progressing with the ccctb is the appropriate solution to tackling cross-border fiscal impediments to growth in a comprehensive manner. currently, the existence of 27 highly disparate corporate tax systems in the eu means that companies are faced with significant tax obstacles and an administrative burden which discourage, if not impede, their activities in the single market and negatively affect their competitiveness, in particular in the case of smes. such a highly-fragmented landscape gives rise to significant market distortions and barriers and creates considerable compliance costs.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i understand perfectly what he says about the difference between tax rates and tax bases, but one of the issues for companies – particularly for foreign direct investment coming into europe – is the ability for those companies to know in advance, with certainty, the tax implications of a transaction. if part of that calculation is sales by destination, that cannot be determined beforehand, so there is real uncertainty for those companies. i think that acts as a disincentive for foreign direct investment. i have many other questions but i know we are tight on time so, if the commissioner could answer that one, i would be happy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his comprehensive response but also ask him if he could acknowledge that the lisbon treaty includes a detailed protocol with respect to taxation and a member state’s right to veto tax proposals.
madam president, commissioner, for me the single most important sentence in the resolution is paragraph 7, which says, ‘expects that, in line with the principles of better regulation, all future legislation will be accompanied by a full impact assessment with consideration for regulatory and administrative burdens and ensuring that any new regulation is proportionate to the aims it seeks to achieve’. i want to ask you whether we can have any hope that this will happen. can you tell us, commissioner, that those principles will be central to the work we do on the cap post-2013? i looked at your excellent document from last week. some of the headlines tell us that agriculture is to guarantee food security and traceability. it is to provide european citizens with quality, value and diversity of food, to create local employment and deliver multiple economic, social, environmental and territorial benefits. it has to ensure effective public policy returns. it must be greener and contribute to climate change mitigation. it must address issues such as sustainable land management and biodiversity loss, promote renewable energies, foster animal and plant health and guarantee animal welfare. it must adhere to cross-compliance rules and abide by veterinary and phytosanitary regulations. it has to deal with volatility in the market and survive as the weakest link in the food chain. it has to compete with food imports from third countries produced under very different conditions. all of this, perhaps, on a decreasing budget. commissioner, you said that next week you have to justify the cap to the committee on budgetary control. i think you have plenty of ammunition.
madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for what i thought was a very forceful and genuine expression of his desire to implement this policy of simplification, although i have never met a farmer who asks me to simplify the common agricultural policy. they ask for fewer checks and controls and easier ways of doing business. i want to repeat my comments of last thursday. we are fooling ourselves in this house. if we go down the route of greening the first pillar of the common agricultural policy, we will unfortunately increase cross-compliance, we will be counting nature, we will be sending people out to farms and we will not achieve simplification. i described it as ‘green tape’. it is just as difficult as red tape but we are going to have both. i know that you appreciate the point and i think we need to be aware of it. i think there is also a credibility issue for the european union. farmers see bankers getting away with blue murder in terms of no checks and balances, while they are caught for eur 100. my last point is that there are multiple checks on farmers: retailers do it, processors do it, the european union does it and competent authorities do it. there is a climate of fear. commissioner, you are afraid of the big, bad wolf – budgetary control – and farmers are afraid of inspections and member states are fearful too. we have to break that climate of fear.
a uachtaráin, aontaím go hiomlán leis an téama seo an comhbheartas talmhaíochta (cap) a shimpliú. go háirithe, molaim an coimisinéir as an méid atá déanta aige. dúirt sé go bhfuair sé 39 moladh, agus a luaithe a chuirtear na moltaí sin i bhfeidhm is ea is fearr é.
in writing. – tá tuairisc i rún a ghlac an pharlaimint níos túisce i mbliana ar an tábhacht a bhaineann le rómhaorlathas a laghdú d’fheirmeoirí. mórphointe amháin ann, is ea gur chóir go mbeadh simpliú ar chur i bhfeidhm an chomhbheartais talmhaíochta (cbt) i gceist chomh maith le simpliú ar an cbt féin. tá ról tábhachtach le glacadh ag an gcoimisiún agus na ballstáit araon chuige seo. ní mór go ndíreodh athbhreithniú an cbt ar mhodhanna a ligfeadh d’fheirmeoirí formhór a gcuid ama a chaitheamh i mbun an ruda is tábhachtaí: an fheirmeoireacht. tagraíodh i dteachtaireacht an choimisiúin – a foilsíodh an tseachtain seo caite – don tábhacht a bhaineann leis an simpliú agus leis an rómhaorlathas a laghdú. chun cumas iomaíochta earnáil na talmhaíochta a fheabhsú, ní mór a chinntiú go ndéanfar na bearta atá i bhfeidhm anois a athchóiriú agus a shimpliú sa cbt a bheas ann amach anseo, agus nach gcuirtear aon ualach breise ar fheirmeoirí. fearaim fáilte roimh a ndúirt an coimisinéir an tseachtain seo caite maidir le measúnuithe tionchair a bheith riachtanach sula molfar togra nua. ní mór go gcuirfear prionsabal na comhréireachta agus na hualaí riaracháin atá ar fheirmeoirí cheana féin san áireamh in aon reachtaíocht nua.
madam president, commissioner: thank you for your comments. you yourself outlined the challenges that we face: a reduction in the numbers of beekeepers and the need to attract new and professional apiarists, and – crucially – the increase in bee mortality caused by a number of factors but, in particular, by the presence of the varroa mite, which compromises the immune system of bees. all of us agree that bee health is important, and i am pleased to hear that the commission will put forward key measures to deal with the current, very serious situation. i would emphasise the need to ensure consultation of beekeepers when drawing up any programmes, in order to ensure first of all their effectiveness and secondly their implementation. as well as beekeepers, we need to ensure sustainable, pollinator-friendly farming practices. i think this is very important and should be an element in the cap. i would also say that, while citizens are aware of the role of bees in producing honey, not everybody knows of the crucial role of bees in pollination and their contribution to eu agriculture and, ultimately, food production. so i would see value in an information campaign, because we need the support of citizens in this matter to justify the money we spend on a bee protection programme. finally, we need independent and timely research into bee mortality so that, whatever actions we take to deal with the situation, we can expect that they will yield positive outcomes.
madam president, i bow to the expertise of others in this area, particularly geoffrey van orden’s comments. i would support what he says because this is an area where there are few experts, but many opinions. i think it is acceptable to raise the opinion on gm, but there are no gm crops grown in ireland – and i think the same is true of the uk – yet we have problems with bee populations, so i think we need to be very careful about comments we make in relation to the causes of the problem. we have a problem and we do not know the reason for it. i support the call for research but with some caution. we throw money at research but let us look for better quality research – and coordinated research across member states – to get the results that beekeepers want and absolutely need. we need to look at the statistics, because i gather that if member states count bees at all, they count them in very different ways. we need to look at what we are comparing across the european union. i will just make a suggestion in relation to unkept bees – the wild bees and the bumble bees as referred to by another colleague. i would support measures in our reformed common agricultural policy around a sustainable agriculture with habitats that support wild bee populations. i have put my money where my mouth is on this, and have allocated a few hectares of land to see what would happen. it does work, but if you are going to ask farmers who farm for a living to do this, you need to support it. i think the european union needs to look at that, because we do have problems in both beekeeping and the wild bee population. we do need to look at enhancing biodiversity, so you would have my support on that, commissioner.
madam president, i think firstly it is appropriate that in our group ms lulling is the expert on bees, because she herself has many of the qualities of the bee. she buzzes around parliament like a bee. she is as sweet as honey most of the time, and she can sting like a bee when people stand on her corns. so you could say that she is the queen bee of parliament. on a more serious note, einstein said that if the bee population died out, man himself would die out within four years. perhaps an exaggeration, yet einstein was a genius and he knew what he was talking about – because no more bees, no more pollination and no more fruit, no more plants, no more man and, god forbid, no more lullings. so we have a serious problem, because the population globally has declined rapidly over the last 10 years. there are a number of issues which have been raised. the first problem is that of the parasites – the varroa mite – that has to be addressed and dealt with. insecticides have a knock-on effect on bees as a result of being sprayed on plants. then we have the harsh winters: in 2008, three million bees died during that harsh winter. then, of course, we have what we have in other areas, such as beef and fish: too many imports coming in too easily from third countries and undermining our own production. these things need to be addressed with research and also with targets. i think young people, because they are now very pro-nature, could be encouraged to go into beekeeping – as ms mcguinness said, maybe as a hobby first, and some could go into it on a full-time basis if it proved productive. finally, i think we should include in the cap a 2020 target for bees: that is, to increase the population by 20% so that our bees can be as durable as madam lulling.
madam president, as mr kelly has said, we have the queen bee here, who has had lots of suitors, as the queen bee plays a crucial role in relation to all the activities that go on in the hive. when we think of the common agricultural policy, we think of mega-scale farming. we think about cattle, beef, dairying, sheep, vegetables, wine and so on. here we have a cinderella area that is absolutely au naturel if it is properly managed. i look at the background to this, and it is quite clear that, as has been said, bees have a wonderfully diverse role as pollinators and suppliers. the increase in bee-related diseases is endangering the species, which would be a tragedy. member states have their own various initiatives, but there is very little or no coordination. what we need to do is to guarantee financial support for this particular sector. beekeeping is dependent on the modalities of the common agricultural policy, so we need to have a special line in relation to beekeeping. quite apart from the economic reality, if you look at, for example, the situation in relation to the health properties of honey – as we have more and more honey-based health supplements – it is quite obvious that the benefits from the point of view of the health of the ordinary human being are huge for those who decide to consume honey on a daily basis. what we are doing here today is launching what mrs lulling did back in 1997, and that is putting a specific emphasis onto something that is out there, that is natural and that we can do on a daily basis. but we have got to ensure that it is protected, because there is too much contamination and a lack of regulation and documentation in terms of the actual statistics. last, but by no means least, we have a capacity to determine the number of hives that are out there. it is not the number of hives, it is the number of bees and the number of swarms that is important at the end of the day: the actual numbers of bees which are actively promoting the whole honey product which we depend on as a human race and which is so hugely beneficial to all – each and every one of us. so i commend my colleague, mrs lulling, for a wonderful initiative and i wish it well.
mr president, as an irish mep, it gives me no great pleasure to come in here this morning and hear almost every speaker refer to ireland because of our economic situation, particularly when a few years ago we were seen as almost the pin-up boys of economic success in the european union. nevertheless, i think there is a determination in ireland to put things right, and i think the vast majority of people would welcome the support of our european friends and colleagues. there are a few lessons to be learned. i think mr farage was not far wrong when he said that it was due to the stupidity and greed of irish politicians, who were part of the crony capitalism with the banks and regulators that brought a lot of this about. we have to learn lessons. but another thing that is going to be very important is that the supervisory architecture being put in place from 1 january must work, so that the stress tests and so forth are sufficient to recognise what is happening in the future and people are brought to heel if they are getting out of hand.
in writing. − the conclusion of this protocol would permit reinforced cooperation on certain programmes with moldova. it will lead to closer integration between moldova and the eu. considering the amount of moldovans who live and work in ireland and contribute to ireland’s society, this is a welcome step for the future of europe.
in writing. − i do not agree with direct-to-consumer advertising in relation to pharmaceutical products. it is important for patients to have access to information on the medicine that they are taking but i feel that this type of advertising would undermine the doctor’s role as gatekeeper and may damage their responsibility to patients.
in writing. − the current rohs restricts the use of six hazardous materials that were once contained in certain electrical and electronic equipment. it is being recast in order to simplify it and to make it easier for producers to tell which substances are banned, so as to avoid any unnecessary mix-ups that could be dangerous to the consumer and waste companies’ resources.
in writing. − i voted against this resolution, which states the position of the european parliament ahead of the initialling of the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta), because the conservative majority in this house refused to raise the need for basic safeguards for our citizens vis-à-vis this global copyright agreement. parliament has yet to see evidence that the legal basis for this negotiation is consistent with the lisbon treaty prior to the initialling of the agreement. the commission must also demonstrate to us that cooperation between service providers and copyright holders will not impinge on citizens’ fundamental rights, especially the right to privacy, the right to freedom of expression and the right to due process. this requires an assessment of the impact of acta on data protection and fundamental rights. we need a guarantee by the council and the commission that acta will not necessitate any changes to eu law as far as criminal measures relating to the enforcement of intellectual property rights are concerned. civil enforcement provisions on patents could also negatively impact access to generic medicines, and the commission should address this concern. we should withhold our consent to acta until we receive written guarantees on these critical issues.
a uachtaráin, glacaim buíochas le mo ghrúpa as ucht an seans a thabhairt dom cúpla focal a rá ar an ábhar seo a bhfuil an-suim agam ann. now the outcome of the cancún conference is important for the european union from the point of view of optics as well as of results. we have got to be seen to be realistic and we have to speak with one voice. it has to be driven home very strongly that global warning is a global problem that needs a global solution with global binding targets. for that reason we should stick to our targets of 20% by 2020. anything else would be counterproductive. it could decimate our economy; make us uncompetitive while the developing world gallops ahead. if by 2015 or thereabouts we have reached the 20% target, we can change it to 25% or 30%; that then would be seen as a pr success. anything else – looking for 30% and not achieving it – would be seen as a pr disaster, as we had with the lisbon strategy. we have had enough of that. it is time to box clever, to do our part but to ensure that the rest of the world does the same. finally, i have heard it mentioned that some members of the european parliament may be going to cancún to protest; they are quite entitled to do so but i hope they do so in a private and personal capacity and not as accredited delegates.
mr president, competition is the life of trade. obviously, to have competition you must be able to compete, and some of the arrangements we have with third countries disadvantage our own producers. elisabeth köstinger referred to mercosur, and it is certainly true that many agricultural and fisheries products coming into the eu are produced at a far inferior standard than those which we demand from within. that certainly must be addressed. having said that, on a positive note, some of the agreements we have had in recent times are very good, such as the free trade agreement with korea. we need more of that. i think most people would agree that it would benefit us and it would benefit them. i would ask the commissioner whether there are any plans to engage in an economic partnership agreement with japan. the copenhagen economic study has shown that we would gain eur 33 billion and japan would gain eur 18 billion by such an arrangement.
madam president, i would like to thank the ombudsman for his work. he has a very specific job to do, namely maladministration, and therefore it is important that citizens understand what that term means. much of what i am about to say does not directly impact on the ombudsman, but i think it needs to be placed on the record. some of the biggest problems and complaints we get are about our own member states. citizens then complain – as mr busuttil said – directly to the commission who, under this pilot scheme, go back to the member state to try to have the matter resolved when the citizens themselves have failed. that mechanism is not transparent and needs to be looked at. we need a discussion on it in this house. the second issue which arises relates to property purchases and transactions between citizens in different member states. we have no remit in this area, but it is a growing concern and we need to address it in some way. lastly, the irish ombudsman has issued two reports, which our own government have rejected. it is of deep concern that an ombudsman in any member state would have their work literally torn up. you are aware of that, mr ombudsman. i am glad that you are nodding approvingly. this must be addressed. it cannot be allowed to continue.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm vótáil ar son na tuarascála seo agus ba mhaith liom mo chomhghleacaí agus mo chara bean kolarska-bobińska a mholadh as an éacht atá déanta aici. d’fhreastail mé ar an díospóireacht sa pharlaimint ach níor éirigh liom aird an uachtaráin a fháil faoin bpróiseas “tarraingt airde”. dá bhrí sin ba mhaith liom dhá phointe a dhéanamh: gur cheart don aontas eorpach díriú ar thaighde, ar fhorbairt agus ar nuálaíocht; agus gur cheart gréasán eorpach a chur ar bun chun leictreachas a stóráil agus a thraschur ar fud an aontais. má dhéanaimid san, déanaimid dul chun cinn iontach. i ndeireadh na dála, ba mhaith liom a rá go raibh áthas orm gur vótáil na feisirí le tromlach mór ar son na tuarascála seo.
in writing. − i support this report, which calls for trade not to be seen as a narrow end in itself. rather, our future trade strategy should also see it as an additional means to promote european values and interests. provisions on sustainable development are of benefit to all parties. moreover, the inclusion of social and environmental standards in trade agreements contributes to regulate globalisation. choosing to ignore them is a short-sighted and counterproductive approach which not only goes against the principles guiding our external action but will also undermine the european social model. eu bilateral trade relations with third parties are all the more crucial for human rights and social and environmental standards when there is scant prospect of progress within the wto framework. nevertheless, we need to keep pushing for the ilo to be granted observer status in, and the right to speak at, the wto, and a committee on trade and decent work should be created within the wto. while the inclusion of binding human rights clauses in the eu’s international agreements is an admirable practice, poor monitoring and implementation seems to render them virtually useless, and this has to be seriously addressed in all future agreements.
in writing. − the ombudsman offers an important service to irish citizens. if they feel that the eu or government does not seem to be working for them they always have the office of the ombudsman to turn to, to seek redress. from my dealings with the office i have found that they aid the irish citizens thoroughly and professionally and by voting in favour for the passing of this report it shows the faith i have in the office.
in writing. − climate change is a real and immediate challenge that the countries of europe are facing. it is vital that there is a worldwide decision made quickly that may help stem the worst results of climate change. therefore i would like to see progress at the cancún conference.
a uachtaráin, bhí ról tábhachtach ag an aontas eorpach maidir le cur chun cinn an phróisis síochána agus athmhuintearais i dtuaisceart éireann agus sna réigiúin cois teorann sa tír. rinne an taontas eorpach infheistíocht iomlán de eur 1.3 milliún i dtrí cinn de chláracha peace ón bhliain 1994. ón bhliain 1989 rinne an taontas infheistíocht de eur 349 milliún sa chiste idirnáisiúnta d’éirinn. thug an ciste idirnáisiúnta d’éirinn tacaíocht do bhreis agus 6 000 togra in éirinn. eu support has enabled communities in northern ireland and the border region to take advantage of the opportunities arising from the peace process. building peace and reconciliation is a long-term process and i strongly believe that there is still a need to continue with peace iii and international fund for ireland (ifi) support. i welcome recent moves by the us, supported by the uk and irish authorities, to examine the possibility of continuing the ifi programme beyond 2010 in a limited and targeted way. in conclusion, continued support for the peace programme is absolutely essential.
a uachtaráin, is ceist an-tábhachtach í seo. is léir dúinn go bhfuil difríocht mhór idir an brabach atá á dhéanamh ag na feirmeoirí agus an brabach atá á dhéanamh ag na sraitheanna ollmhargaí. i mo thír féin, tá thart ar 22 000 duine fostaithe san earnáil déiríochta. is fiú eur 1 billiún go bliantúil an margadh déiríochta in éirinn amháin. ní dóigh liomsa go bhfuil an taontas eorpach ag déanamh a dhóthain chun cuidiú le feirmeoirí; agus níl mé ag caint faoi na deontais – tá na deontais go maith. tá a lán rudaí mícheart leis an margadh. ba chóir, mar shampla, go n-íocfaí na feirmeoirí as a gcuid táirgí faoi cheann 30 lá. ní tharlaíonn sé seo ar chor ar bith. chomh maith leis sin, tá an t-ollmhargadh ag díol bainne ar lascaine, ach is é an feirmeoir atá ag cailleadh an airgid. tá díomá orm nach bhfuiltear chun déileáil leis na fadhbanna siúd. caithfimid i bhfad níos mó a dhéanamh chun na feirmeoirí a chosaint i gcoinne chumhacht na n-ollmhargaí.
a uachtaráin, tá seanfhocal i ngaeilge a deir: ‘ní lia duine ná tuairim’. má tá sin fíor faoi aon ábhar tá sé fíor faoin ábhar conspóideach, casta seo. dá bhrí sin, tá jab an-mhaith déanta ag an rapoirtéir agus tá moladh tuillte aici. as the european union is founded on principles of peace and prosperity, it is only right that it should try and convey that idea throughout the whole european union, and indeed the world. as the world’s biggest donor to third countries, it is right that we should be trying to ensure that those who are legally within our borders will be treated with the same dignity and respect that we would like to be shown to our citizens if they were in third countries. while this is not perfect, it is a step in the right direction. i welcome it and therefore endorse it.
in writing. – i voted against this dangerously worded draft directive from the commission and council that sought to create a low pay job market for migrant workers in the eu. migration must be fair. everyone working in the eu should be treated equally, regardless of his or her country of origin. this proposal for a single work permit for nationals of non-eu countries was a missed opportunity to support decent working conditions where migrants are welcomed on the basis of equal treatment. instead, the proposal would have resulted in discriminatory treatment between eu workers and non-eu employees posted to work in the eu. for example companies could find it more profitable to officially relocate their headquarters to countries outside the eu and then to post their workers to their european branches to avoid having to provide the same rights and conditions for their workers that are legally applicable to eu citizens working in the eu. the european parliament rejected this proposal. this ensures that the commission and member state ministers must go back to the drawing board and bring forward a visa proposal that does not promote a race to the bottom.
mr president, tip o’neill, the great irish-american politician, once said: ‘all politics is local’. the same could be applied to the european union in terms of development. all development has been regional. in particular, the success of my own country under the cohesion policy since we joined the european union is a perfect example. we had a little over half the average gdp when we joined in 1973, but now we have one and half times the average gdp, notwithstanding the financial difficulties of the country at the present time. secondly, as we move forward, one of the key aspects for us is going to be to simplify the procedure, put an emphasis on results and added value and try and cut down on red tape and regulation. you could fill in forms from here to the end of parliament but, if there is no added value, it is of no benefit. if we do that, we can continue to make progress and i certainly look forward to seeing the regional policy... (the president cut off the speaker)
a uachtaráin, is deacair cinnteacht a bheith againn maidir leis seo, go háirithe agus an tionchar a bhíonn ag fógraíocht ar iompar na saoránach á mheas. gach lá, tagann suirbhé i ndiaidh suirbhé amach agus bíonn torthaí éagsúla acu go léir. nevertheless advertising does pay; private companies spend millions and millions on radio, tv and newspaper advertisements as well as covert advertising like sponsorship. at the same time there is a dilemma in assessing it. on the one hand you have people saying that one of the cures for alcoholism is to ban advertising. yet we have seen the use of drugs grow exponentially in recent decades, and because they are illegal not only are they not advertised but they cannot be bought over the counter. therefore, i think that there is a need for independent analysis and proper surveying at eu level, without any vested interests involved, to really establish what is good and what is bad, what is beneficial and what is not, and then we can regulate accordingly. without that i think we are going to have different surveys, day in and day out, producing the results that the people who commission them want.
in writing. – today’s vote on human trafficking comes at a crucial juncture in the ongoing fight against this form of modern-day slavery. as irish director ciarán o’connor outlined last year in his film ‘trafficked’, which documented the ongoing impact of trafficking in ireland, it is a crime which is becoming more advanced and more ruthless as authorities fight harder to drive it away. measures such as this are crucial in order to give authorities the tools and common purpose they need to tackle this europe-wide problem. at a national level, legislatures need to come down hard on those convicted, and resources must be given to police forces so that it is not for lack of finance or manpower that trafficking is allowed to continue. however, this is a crime without borders, and as such it is european legislation as much as national laws that will truly put an end to slavery in europe.
in writing. − i welcome the european protection order. it is an excellent initiative which will ensure that measures for victims’ protection will extend from one member state to another. at present protection orders stop at our border leaving the victim defenceless. the epo marks a huge step forward in victim rights. it is a strong instrument which will provide a safer haven for victims of violence across member states’ borders. over 100,000 women in the eu are covered by protective measures. however, i am very concerned by the blocking minority at council level of which ireland is part. i hope that the huge acceptance of this report at parliament level will encourage the blocking minority to re-think their stance. i do not accept their argument that the legal basis of the report is inaccurate both the council and the parliament’s legal service found that the legal basis was adequate, and as unanimously supported by juri, the protection order does not establish obligations to modify national systems for adopting protection measures, as the member state to which a victim travels is asked to provide protection in accordance with its national law.
i scríbhinn. − déantar gáinneáil ar na céadta míle duine san ae gach bliain d’fhonn, i measc rudaí eile, teacht i dtír gnéasach, obair éigeantais, trádáil mhídhleathach ar orgáin agus déircínteacht a dhéanamh. is tromchoir uafásach í an sclábhaíocht nua-aimseartha seo agus is tromshárú ar chearta bunúsacha an duine í. fearaim fáilte roimh a bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir le bearta níos déine a chur i bhfeidhm chun gáinneáil a chosc, pionóis níos géire a ghearradh ar gháinneálaithe agus cosaint níos fearr a chur ar fáil d’íospartaigh. ní mór dul i ngleic leis an sclábhaíocht nua-aimseartha seo agus forálacha maidir le tacaíocht, cosaint agus cúnamh feabhsaithe a chur ar fáil d’íospartaigh, agus an cosc agus an faireachán a neartú. ní foláir dul i ngleic leis na heagraíochtaí coiriúla idirnáisiúnta agus comhoibriú ar leibhéal an ae agus ar an leibhéal idirnáisiúnta a bhunú chun é sin a dhéanamh i gceart. cuirim fáilte roimh a bhfuil sa tuarascáil maidir le pionóis níos déine a ghearradh ar gháinneálaithe agus maidir le sócmhainní a urghabháil. is páistí is mó atá i mbaol ón ngáinneáil ar dhaoine agus ní mór go mbeadh cúnamh agus cosaint ar fáil d’íospartaigh uile na gáinneála, páistí go háirithe.
mr president, i would like to thank sidonia in particular, our rapporteur, for handling very difficult negotiations excellently on behalf of parliament. that work needs to be recognised, as does that of the council. i speak as the agriculture rapporteur, and i need the word agriculture to echo through this chamber because we have concerns, not just about figures but also procedure. from my perspective, this new procedure needs fine-tuning. we could and should do our work better. i say that to myself, but i say it also to the council and the commission, and i think we need to examine and review how we have worked in the past. we have made some gains in agriculture. they are very small, but my concerns are for the future. i would like the commission to talk about the massive cut of upwards of usd 800 million that there appears to be in rural development funding; i hope that that will not actually come to pass. i am concerned about the budget post-2013 and the possibility that agriculture could become a sector where people raid funds for other policies unless there is agreement on an adequate budget for all of the policies of the european union.
mr president, this reminds me of a phrase in latin that goes quis custodiet custodes, who will guard the guards? the same is true here. who is going to rate the credit agencies? thankfully, we now have an instrument that will do that and, certainly, the credit rating agencies have brought no credit on themselves, rather they have discredited themselves by their behaviour over the last couple of years and they have exacerbated the financial situation rather than alleviate it. so i am delighted that the european parliament and our authorities are taking control of the situation and i compliment mr gauzès, mr barnier and the council for putting in place an instrument that will deal with this. i am certainly looking forward to tomorrow’s vote on this and, if i am given the opportunity, i will vote three or four times to bring these vultures under control.
mr president, i am pleased that this is before us here this evening. i have to say that one of the points that is very rarely made is that, until recently, the public sector in ireland was being regulated by the private sector; it was being regulated effectively by the credit-rating agencies and the markets. i am one of those who welcome the fact that we got away from the private sector and, at least, we have the shield of the ecb, the eu and the imf in the circumstances we are in. i might not agree with the exact package but i think it is a better position for us to be in than to be at the mercy of the credit-rating agencies and the markets. the markets are supposed to be free; i think that is something we might have a debate on some other day. but, in relation to the credit-rating agencies, one of those agencies was getting usd 800 million a year for rating structured finances. their impartiality really is being called into account and, when we look back on what they did in the past and even when we look back on what they do now, i think we will look back in dismay. it is time they were called to account and i am glad that there will be stronger supervision for these bodies.
mr president, like many people we are just relieved that there is good news. while it is understated, rather than overstated, you have made progress in a calm way because we had lower expectations. i want to deal with one particular issue and that is reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation, the so-called redd programme, which is a very important issue, but i am concerned about a lack of policy coherence in the commission in relation to this issue. for example, the trade commissioner is currently trying to do a deal with the mercosur countries which will result in increased beef production in these countries. that can only come from land that will be deforested, which will add to the climate change problem. i would urge the commissioner to bring this message clearly to the college and to address it in a way that shows us as acting in a coherent way, as the european union.
briefly, this is a very important, if sad, topic. i know that in my own country 20% of young people are unemployed and emigration, which had finished, is starting again with what they call ‘the brain drain’ including, among others, members of my own family. and, following on from the last question, are some countries more receptive than others to the measures being proposed by the european union, and what are the barriers being put in their place?
the word ‘quota’ is mentioned in the question and i did not hear a response specifically to that question about quotas. secondly, i would regret it if children were seen as a ‘problem’ in relation to the participation of women in the workforce. children are children for a very short space of time and women can contribute at all age levels. so please do not just focus on children as a problem. the problem is not children – in fact what is a problem is that we need more children in the european union. the problem is: how do women break through the glass ceiling that the questioner has recognised?
i would like to thank the commissioner for her answer as well. like my previous colleague, i think one of the biggest difficulties that should be recognised is that – whilst we all understand the importance of access to justice in a format which is understandable to the person seeking the justice – these new rules cannot be used as a legal mechanism to delay further hearing of important cases, whether it is for deportation under immigration rules or whether it to challenge certain criminal records and so on. is there any piece within the legislation or the proposal that would allow for the court to ignore the necessity for every single document to be translated into the language?
a uachtaráin, cé gur stát moslamach í, caithimid a aithint go bhfuil an tuirc an-chabhrach don iarthar, go mór mhór ó thaobh na cuáite, na hiaráice agus ó thaobh nato de. cé go bhfuil deacrachtaí ann ó thaobh daonra atá an-mhór, 74 milliún duine, agus deacrachtaí maidir le cearta an duine, cúrsaí eacnamaíochta agus ó thaobh na cipire de, ag an am céanna nach féidir leis an gcoimisinéir a admháil go bhfuil cúrsaí ag feabhsú? an bhfuil sé in ann aon chlár ama a thabhairt dúinn, san fhadtéarma nó sa ghearrtéarma, ina mbeimid in ann cearta a thabhairt don tuirc a bheith ina ball iomlán den aontas eorpach.
just briefly, notwithstanding the progress turkey has made in certain areas, the commissioner pointed out that significant progress needs to be made regarding freedom of expression and freedom of the press. if that is satisfied one day and they do join the european union, is there not a danger that they will return to type and go back on a lot of the things that we are looking for and which have not been attained yet?
mr president, i too welcome the rapporteur’s proposals and certainly we are living in a much smaller world than ever before. interaction between people is far greater, and that is set to continue rapidly into the future, so obviously the more harmonisation we have in measurement instruments the better. i certainly welcome the repeal of the metrology directives and cutting red tape by 25%. sometimes i think we underestimate the ability of people to adapt. i saw in my country how easily we adapted from the old pounds, shillings and pence to the euro and cents, and also only in recent years from miles to kilometres in terms of travel and speed limits. this has made life easier for many people and will continue to do so. i think this is a step in the right direction, so congratulations again.
a uachtaráin, labhras faoin ábhar seo anuraidh agus, cosúil le cainteori eile, táim anseo arís anocht, bliain eile imithe agus ní maith sin. nevertheless, i suppose there is nothing more disconcerting than to see your child getting injured or dying as a result of playing with a toy. we think of this in terms of swallowing something or strangulation, but there is a more covert killer and that is cancer. the evidence is there that cancer is rising amongst young children in particular. many people feel it is as a result of being exposed to chemicals in children’s toys. pahs are particularly mentioned and therefore it is important that we reduce cmr substances in children’s toys to the minimum. therefore we need to take action. tá sé in am dúinn é a dhéanamh agus a chinntiú go mbeidh na bréagáin a úsáideann ár leanaí sábháilte dóibh.
i scríbhinn. – tagann na mílte bréagán nua ar an margadh san eoraip gach bliain agus is ag tréimhse na nollag is mó a bhíonn tóir ar bhréagáin sna siopaí. dá bhrí sin, is ceist thráthúil í seo. tá buarthaí suntasacha ann maidir le ceimiceáin dhíobhálacha atá le fáil i mbréagáin áirithe. ní foláir don choimisiún aghaidh a thabhairt air seo gan mhoill. ní mór gur ar mhodhanna iontaofa tástála a bhunófaí caighdeáin sábháilteachta agus go ndéanfaí diantaighde a chinnteodh nach mbeadh substaintí díobhálacha le fáil i mbréagáin pháistí. cé go mbeidh ar na bréagáin ar fad a thagann ar an margadh ón 20 iúil 2011 ar aghaidh cloí leis an treoir nua um shábháilteacht bhréagán agus cé go bhfuil an reachtaíocht is déine ar domhan ó thaobh sábháilteachta bréagán de againn san eoraip, ní mór a bheith cúramach i gcónaí. ní foláir don choimisiún a bheith aireach agus faireachán margaidh ar allmhairithe a láidriú. is cúis imní í gach athghairm a dhéantar ar bhréagáin chontúirteacha agus ní mór scrúdú láithreach a dhéanamh ar gach cás. ní foláir go mbeadh tomhaltóirí muiníneach as an marc ce a thugann ráthaíocht go bhfuil earra ar chaighdeán an ae agus go ndearnadh as ábhar neamhthocsaineach é.
madam president, today the irish house of representatives, the dáil, will vote on the eu-imf financial assistance package. these have been very difficult times for ireland, with tax increases and cuts in expenditure. the last week’s budget was only a mere reflection of the difficulties so many irish people are going through at the moment. this follows 14% pay cuts in the public and private sectors. however, i strongly believe that the eu-imf financial package will help ireland restore confidence by getting the banks capitalised and lending again, and by repairing the public finances. i do not necessarily share in accepting the detail of the plan, but overall figures are supported by fine gael. the underlying economic trends in ireland are quite good. it will require good government and dáil oversight to ensure our finances never again get out of hand. it will also require some thought at eu and ecb level on the contribution made by low interest rates to property inflation. i was a lone voice in this chamber for two and half years questioning mr trichet on this particular difficulty. with the establishment of a permanent successor to the european financial stability mechanism, from which ireland will be receiving eur 22.5 billion in loans if it draws them down, the eu-imf package is a positive move for the eurozone. may i say also in conclusion that there are many people here who consider themselves federalists and yet want to see some sort of harmonisation in taxation. in the united states over 50% of companies in the copyright business register in delaware. why do they do that? because of the tax situation in delaware. there are some very ignorant comments made in this chamber by self-serving people who want to advance their own national causes by making inaccurate statements, and they will be challenged.
madam president, firstly a complaint. you said this is an important debate, and it is. i find it somewhat unacceptable that mr barroso and many of the political leaders have departed the chamber as soon as they have given their speeches. in fairness to mr schulz, he has stayed here from the beginning to the end and i would like to compliment him on that. secondly, i want to say that, when all is said and done, one of the main reasons for the financial crisis is that governments failed to govern and political leaders failed to lead. thankfully, we are now bringing that situation under control with the new supervisory architecture which should be coming in on 1 january, the credit rating agencies report which we dealt with last night, and today’s permanent financial stability mechanism. they are all to be welcomed. if mr barroso were here, i would like to ask him if he can guarantee that a referendum will not be required in ireland and elsewhere to make the minimum treaty changes he spoke of. finally, i want to say to those who have asked that a written declaration be signed by members that this is a direct attack on corporation tax in ireland. that should not be done.
madam president, ireland has been mentioned many times in this debate. i would like to start by making it clear that i support deeper economic governance in a european social market economy. we should thank ireland’s partners in europe for their solidarity at this time of crisis – a crisis created largely by incompetent conservative governments over many years. you will not be surprised that solidarity is being presented by eurosceptics as a loss of ireland’s independence. that distortion is heightened by the failure of the commission and the council to engage with this parliament on the memorandum of understanding with ireland. when, mr rehn, will that memorandum of understanding be brought before this parliament? commissioner rehn, one of the meanest conditions and obligations in the memorandum of understanding is the obligation to cut the minimum wage in ireland by eur 2 000 per year. the irish government is claiming that you demanded that cut, mr rehn. can you clarify that matter for this house? a second incomprehensible aspect of this agreement is the 3% margin which you have demanded... (the president cut off the speaker)
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, let me first thank you for a very substantive and responsible debate on the european response to the current crisis. indeed this latest stage of the financial crisis is proving increasingly systemic in nature, which calls for an equally systemic response from the european union. therefore europe’s policy response must be comprehensive, consistent and determined. it will necessarily have to combine broader measures applying to the entire european union with specific measures taken by the member states. what should be done? in the commission’s view we have five avenues of action. firstly, we need a determined, collective effort to deliver on the agreed budgetary commitments. every member state should stick to its fiscal targets. the best defence against contagion is the ring-fencing of our budgetary positions. for instance, spain and portugal are taking very convincing decisions to this effect now. secondly, we need to advance the next round of bank stress tests and do them in an even more comprehensive and rigorous manner than last time by using the new european architecture of financial regulation and supervision which will enter into force as of january next year. thirdly, we need effective financial backstops, and that is why in may the union created the european financial stability mechanism and facility for a temporary three-year lifespan. soon the permanent european stabilisation mechanism will be set up, to take effect as of mid-2013. to go further and deeper, several initiatives on eurobonds have been floated recently. as a concept, the eurobond is a broad church that covers a wide range of possible applications. the current focus of policy-making is, rightly and reasonably, on making the existing european financial stability facility more effective and agile, to help us in the immediate response to the current stage of the crisis. but certainly we have to continue analytical discussions on such rational alternatives that can help europe to overcome the systemic crisis by improving the functioning of the bond markets, by facilitating fiscal consolidation through more reasonable borrowing costs, by providing a basis for enhanced budgetary coordination among member states and by reinforcing the incentives for fiscal prudence in the member states. the fourth element of the comprehensive response has to be structural measures, as outlined in the strategy for europe 2020. these are indeed necessary for increasing our potential growth and for creating sustainable employment. we must make the most of our single market, especially in services and energy, make the tax and benefits systems more conducive to employment growth, make more focused investment in knowledge and innovation and simplify our regulatory environment. fifthly, an essential element of our systemic response, which is very much in your hands, honourable members, is the rapid and ambitious adoption of the legislative package on reinforced economic governance which the commission proposed in september. i am glad that parliament and the council have agreed to finalise this package by next summer. this is a matter of the credibility of the economic and monetary union of the european union as a whole. it is also a most effective crisis-prevention mechanism, as it reinforces long and short-term confidence in the european economy, as well as confidence in the immediate future. moreover, in response to mr karas, it is also an essential stepping stone for completing the economic and monetary union by finally complementing the strong monetary union with a true and functional economic union. it is indeed high time for the ‘e’ in the emu to be infused with life through the creation of a real and effective economic union as the final step in european economic policy integration. arvoisa puhemies, edelleen pari kommenttia suomeksi edustaja soinin puheenvuoron johdosta. ehkä hän on nyt ehtinyt tulemaan paikalle tänne, koska hän poistui tästä tilaisuudesta äsken. edustaja soinin puheisiin on voinut suhtautua ja pitääkin suhtautua huumorilla, mutta kun hän on viime aikoina saanut kohtuullisesti kannatusta, ne ilmeisesti pitää alkaa ottaa vakavasti. ensinnäkin en usko, että kreikkalaisten halventaminen tavalla, jolla edustaja soini sen teki, on kovin hyödyllistä, tai varsinkaan asiallisesti kohdallaan. kreikka tekee tällä hetkellä hyvin merkittäviä, käänteentekeviä uudistuksia, mikä ansaitsee arvostusta eikä pilkkaa. suosittelenkin edustaja soinille perussuomalaista sananlaskua: "arvaa oma tilasi, anna arvo toisellekin". se on paljon parempi tapa rakentaa rauhanomaista yhteistyöhön perustuvaa eurooppaa. toiseksi en myöskään pidä asiallisesti perusteltuna verrata euroopan unionia neuvostoliittoon, kuten edustaja soini teki. joku, jolla ei ole huumorintajua, voisi kokea sen jopa ehkä loukkaavaksi. vapaus, kansanvalta ja oikeusvaltio eivät olleet neuvostoliiton tavaramerkkejä, mutta ne ovat euroopan unionin perusarvoja, joita suomalaiset ovat kautta historian puolustaneet, edustaja soini. ei kannata aliarvioida suomalaistenkaan käsityskykyä, ei edes perussuomalaisten kannattajien. kyllä kansa tietää, eu ei ole neuvostoliitto. (suosionosoituksia.)
madam president, on the other hand, commissioner rehn has not answered the questions that i put and i am still here.
in writing. – i was eager for european citizens to benefit from this powerful instrument as soon as possible, and i am delighted to see the end of the legislative procedure one year after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. the citizens’ initiative is a major innovation of the lisbon treaty. it provides european citizens with a new right whereby one million citizens may ask the european commission to propose a new eu law, thus bringing europe closer to its citizens. the citizens’ initiative is a valuable tool by which citizens can achieve ambitious results through teamwork – this is the essence of the european project. this initiative will ensure that the institutions continue to work on the issues closest to their citizens’ hearts, while encouraging cross-border debate on european issues. this is a work in progress and the commission will present a report every three years on the implementation of the initiative.
a uachtaráin, bhí áthas orm vótáil ar son na moltaí seo agus is dóigh liom go bhfuil jab an-mhaith déanta ag an mbeirt rapóirtéirí, ní amháin don aontas eorpach ach dár saoránaigh i gcoitinne. the citizens’ initiative was a very important part of the lisbon treaty being passed in ireland a little over a year ago, but it did seem for a while that the whole process would be stymied by complication and regulation. thanks to the work of the rapporteurs, simplification has been brought to the process and particularly welcome is the idea that a seven-member panel from seven different countries would initiate the process. i think this and other measures will ensure that genuine citizens’ concerns can be brought forward while hopefully stopping those of vested interests. dá bhrí sin, ba mhaith liom críochnú le seanfhocal ó mo theanga féin: ‘tosach maith leath na hoibre’. tá tosach maith déanta anseo.
mr president, i welcome and voted for the commission work programme for 2011. the financial crisis is the big challenge, and it has to be met head on. i wish the commission well in terms of the goals that it has set out. as regards the euro, it is absolutely crucial, from the point of view of the integrity and the cohesion of the union, and from the point of view of solidarity within the european union, that we have the common currency and that we do everything possible to protect it. as regards jobs and the economy, i welcome the fact that in january 2011 the commission will adopt its first annual growth survey. that annual growth survey will analyse the economic situation of the union, including potential imbalances and systemic risk. this is essential to europe’s transformation into a smart and sustainable economy. last, but by no means least, we are a community of 500 million people. we have got to punch above our weight on the european stage and the world stage internationally. i wish the commission well in the year ahead.
a uachtaráin, fáiltím roimh thuarascáil bendtsen agus thug mé mo vóta don tuarasacáil sin. caithfimid béim a chur ar chaomhnú fuinnimh chun an t-éileamh ar fhuinneamh a laghdú agus mar sin éifeachtacht fuinnimh a bhaint amach ar fud an aontais eorpaigh. bíonn na foinsí inathnuaite fuinnimh á bplé go minic againn, ach tá sé an-éasca dearmad a dhéanamh ar an ídiú leictreachais a dhéanaimid. vótáil mé ar son na tuarascála seo mar go bhfuil sé thar a bheith tábhachtach. ba mhaith liom comhghairdeachas a dhéanamh leis an rapóirtéir.
a uachtaráin, tá cúpla pointe agam maidir leis an ábhar seo. i think in the fight against climate change, nearly all the emphasis up until now has been put on renewable energy which is obviously very important. but so much more could be done in the area of energy efficiency and that is why i welcome this report. in the area of buildings, so much more could be done, particularly in relation to this building itself, the buildings in brussels and many more public buildings. it is very important that we should make them more energy efficient. the same applies to so many modes of transport. so many huge diesel-guzzling engines. the manufacturers should be compelled to make them more energy efficient. one group i want to commend though. in my own country the schools do fantastic work in the area of the green flag. that should be recognised and encouraged because through them they are getting to the children and to their parents and creating a positive attitude.
i scríbhinn. − fearaim fáilte roimh an gcomhaontú idir parlaimint na heorpa agus rialtais na 27 ballstát, go háirithe, toisc an mhoill a bheadh ar na híocaíochtaí a gheobhaidh feirmeoirí na héireann an bhliain seo chugainn murach an comhaontú seo.
i scríbhinn. − is leasú teicniúil ar an treoir atá ann cheana féin í an tuarascáil seo, agus bronnfaidh sí cumhachtaí ar an údarás maoirseoireachta nua, emsa, ó eanáir 2011 ar aghaidh. ní mór a chuimhneamh go bhfuiltear ag súil le leasú níos cuimsithí ar na gníomhaireachtaí rátála creidmheasa in earrach na bliana 2011.
i scríbhinn. − ní mór go mbeadh tionscnamh ar bith ó shaoránaigh sínithe ag breis is milliún saoránach an aontais eorpaigh agus go mbeadh an ceathrú cuid de bhallstáit an aontais eorpaigh clúdaithe ag na sínitheoirí sin: b’shin é pointe is tábhachtaí an rialacháin seo. tá sé i gceist ag rialtas na héireann na sínitheoirí ó éirinn a dheimhniú trí rolla toghthóirí na tíre sin do thoghcháin pharlaimint na heorpa a sheiceáil.
in writing. − this initiative was promised during the lisbon process, so i am pleased that it is now being moved forward. it is imperative that the citizens’ initiative is not open to political, business or other manipulation. it should be left to the genuine initiative of citizens and not be manipulated with a hidden agenda. it should be open and transparent. to set the ball rolling, the commission should advertise the agreed conditions for an initiative when they are agreed. would it not be reasonable for the initiation of the process that the commission organise some form of arms-length competition across the eu to test the water and find out what are the top ten issues on which citizens would welcome an initiative with fellow citizens.
i scríbhinn. − sa bhliain 2011, foilseoidh an coimisiún eorpach tograí maidir leis an gcomhbheartas talmhaíochta agus an comhbheartas iascaireachta a leasú. tá an dhá thionscnamh sin fíorthábhachtach d’fheirmeoirí agus iascairí na héireann.
i scríbhinn. − vótáil mé i bhfabhar na tuarascála seo maidir le hiarmhairt na fógraíochta ar iompraíocht tomhaltóirí. tá fógraíocht mhíthreorach agus ionsaitheach ag déanamh imní do thomhaltóirí agus do ghnóthais agus tá roinnt moltaí maithe sa tuarascáil chun aghaidh a thabhairt air seo. ní mór tomhaltóirí agus gnóthais na heorpa a chosaint ar chomhlachtaí atá i mbun fógraíochta míthreoraí. chuige seo, ní foláir pobal agus gnóthais an ae a chur ar an eolas maidir leis an treoir um chleachtais tráchtála éagóracha agus an treoir um fhógraíocht mhíthreorach agus chomparáideach ionas go dtuigfidís na cearta atá acu. ní mór rialú a dhéanamh ar earraí cosúil le halcól agus cearrbhachas ar líne ionas go dtugtar cosaint do thomhaltóirí leochaileacha. fearaim fáilte ar leith roimh an bhfíoras go n-iarrtar sa tuarascáil seo ar an gcoimisiún staidéar a dhéanamh ar an iarmhairt a bhíonn ag an bhfógraíocht ionsaitheach ar thomhaltóirí leochaileacha agus na dlíthe ábhartha ar chosaint leanaí a chur i bhfeidhm i gceart. is cúis imní í an fhógraíocht iompraíochta agus teacht chun cinn chleachtas na fógraíochta ionsaithí, cosúil le gréasáin shóisialta a úsáid agus ríomhphoist a léamh chun eolas a fháil le haghaidh fógraíocht a dhéanamh. ní foláir don choimisiún dul i ngleic leis na hionsaithe seo ar phríobháideachas an tomhaltóra.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, when i was canvassing for a ‘yes’ vote for the lisbon treaty, i gave irish citizens 10 reasons to vote ‘yes’ to lisbon. one of those was the social clause, article 9. on several occasions in this chamber and elsewhere i have asked the commission and the council to now apply article 9 in their proposals on economic governance and, of course, in their response to the current economic crisis, which is a real test of their commitment to the social clause. in ireland we see the evidence of this response, where the minimum wage has been cut by one euro an hour in the last week, and where invalidity payments and payments to blind persons have also been cut. what now do the phrases ‘the fight against social exclusion’ or ‘the guarantee of adequate social protection’ contained in article 9 signify to those citizens? of course, you may say that this is an internal matter for ireland, but it is not. the parameters for austerity in ireland were set by the eu, and our government will send monthly reports to you. will you remind them of article 9 when the report comes in about the cut in the minimum wage? why has this happened? this has happened because irish banks and european banks engaged in reckless lending and borrowing right under the noses of the ecb. the interest rates you are now charging to ireland for borrowing, according to today’s newspapers, are 3% more than were charged to latvia, romania and hungary. representatives from the court of auditors say that there is no precedent for the eu charging such a margin on loans. can i ask you to confirm or deny this situation? if it is true, please explain to me, so that i can explain to irish citizens, how the social clause is working for them. this situation is specific to ireland, but if it is a template for other member states in trouble, then article 9 is dead in the water.
madam president, i want to ask the commission if it would give the house a specific definition of how it intends to implement article 9. we constantly hear about macroeconomic monitoring. we never hear it talking about macro-social monitoring of what member states are doing in pursuit of european social policy and objectives. i want it to tell us if it intends to use this simply as an impact assessment, i.e. that it hopes its measurements will have no social impact. that is not good enough, because article 9 is intended to promote the objectives of the european union as outlined in article 3 of the treaty. it is not good enough simply to have no impact – it must have a positive impact. this is the obligation on the commission and it must implement the treaties. i also want to address the issue of social services of general interest, on which i am a rapporteur. there is absolutely no doubt whatsoever that the current crisis exit strategy which the commission is pursuing is going to destroy social services of general interest in the member states. you need only look at the memorandum of understanding which the commission has concluded with the irish government for a demonstration of that. it is stated on page 2 that a reduction of current expenditure in 2011 of just over eur 2 billion will be implemented, including social protection expenditure reductions, a reduction of public service employment numbers, a reduction of existing public service pensions on a progressive basis, other expenditure savings of over eur 1 billion, and a reduction of close to eur 2 billion in public capital expenditure against existing plans for 2011. what other impact can that have than to decimate services of general interest, and in particular social services of general interest? so where is article 9? where was article 9 when the commission was negotiating this deal with a conservative irish government on the point of collapse? i would also ask the commission, when it is going to present this memorandum of understanding it has signed off with the irish government before this house? it is obliged to do so under the lisbon treaty. when are we going to see it? when are we going to have an opportunity to discuss it here? one of the other aspects of this agreement which i mentioned this morning is the insistence by the commission that the minimum wage in ireland be reduced by eur 2 000 a year. i repeat, the minimum wage. the lisbon treaty declares that we must have adequate social protection, that we must encourage people to stay in work, that we must eliminate poverty traps, etc., etc., etc., and yet we reduce the minimum wage by eur 2 000 a year. what will that do other than drive more people out of work into the safe haven, relatively speaking, of welfare dependency? these are questions which the commission must respond to. we do not want any more flannel. no more plámás. no more eurospeak. we want clear answers on how the commission is going to apply article 9 of the treaty in relation to economic governance and, in particular, on the arrangements it is making with member states with regard to the crisis exit strategy.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, the united states and nato-led war in afghanistan is an unmitigated disaster for the afghan people, an estimated 30 000 of whom were killed last year alone. it is also a disaster for the young men and women forced to join and fight there in the armies of nato and the united states, of whom perhaps 500 have already been killed this year. as the arlacchi report makes very clear, after nine years the economic and social situation in afghanistan is extremely dire. the number of people living in poverty has increased dramatically. what a scandal this is, considering that usd 300 billion have been obscenely wasted on weapons of mass destruction and war and lost in corruption over that time. the us invasion of afghanistan was undertaken not to advance the interests of the afghan people but the geostrategic interests of the united states in central asia, which of course is rich in energy, oil and gas. foreign armies must be withdrawn and such wealth as exists in afghanistan should be taken from the hands of the karzai government, corrupt landlords and warlords and put democratically in the hands of organisations of peasants, workers and the poor to really utilise those resources and develop them for the benefit of the people.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development. − mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr szájer, for his efforts and for his report. following the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the current comitology provisions will be replaced by delegated acts and implementing acts under articles 290 and 291, as has been explained, but i worry very much about the role of the commission in implementing the decisions made in relation to the lisbon treaty. i think i heard the commissioner just say that their aim is to do so by the end of this parliament. that is another three and a half years, and they only have an ‘aim’! this is not a residents’ association, this is parliament! if the council is involved, parliament is involved. as a parliamentarian – and it gives me no joy to say this – it seems to me that often, instead of acting as honest broker between council and parliament, the commission is far too close to the council, while parliament, being of such numbers, is easily divided and far too easily sometimes facilitates what is a common view reached by the council and by the commission. i must stress firstly that parliament, in my view, should not be under any pressure to sign up completely to the proposed first-reading text in this regard. the most important thing is that we reach a fair compromise that is the best option available for this house and for the citizens we represent, while noting what our colleague, mr szájer has said. if this means waiting for a second-reading agreement, then so be it. as i said, the rule must be that if council is involved, parliament is involved. we are co-decision makers, co-legislators in this regard. as the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development, i feel it is of paramount importance that we assert the independence of parliament and that the commission respect both institutions. i am not sure that this ‘compromise’ achieves that.
a uachtaráin, fáiltím roimh na moltaí seo agus is dóigh liom go dtabharfaidh siad fás agus forbairt don tionscal turasóireachta, rud a bhfuil géarghá leis sna laethanta seo. despite all the criticism that europe gets, i think most citizens still value europe and particularly a label with europe on it. i have seen that in relation to the european city of sport. limerick, in my own constituency, got that award recently and it was much valued. the same is true of the european cities of culture and it will certainly apply to the european heritage sites. there are a few good things about this which should be commended. one is that you have to maintain the site, so that you will not get it forever without actually ensuring you deserve it. secondly there is the point made by mr martin, which was well answered by mr scurria, that red tape will not stifle it. i think we can be very proud of this. it has a lot of potential.
mr president, i welcome the moves for switzerland to increase its cooperation with the eu in the fields of education, training and youth. the youth in action programme is a very important programme for young european citizens. it is a programme that needs to be highlighted more, and its aims and objectives need to be realised, in particular with regard to the european voluntary service’s activities under the youth in action programme. given that next year is the european year of volunteering, it is particularly significant that the european voluntary service – which supports young people’s participation in voluntary activity and aims to develop solidarity and promote active citizenship amongst young people – is strengthened. in ireland, volunteering in grassroots sports organisations offers sporting and leadership opportunities to thousands of young people. these organisations encourage active citizenship amongst young people, while promoting health, fitness and an active lifestyle. the programme and its voluntary measures should be enhanced and strong links should be forged with switzerland in this regard. there are many possibilities under the youth in action programme, and any measures to enhance its aims and to encourage and support young people in the eu should be sustained and strongly encouraged.
mr president, ever since i came to the european parliament, i keep asking myself why switzerland and norway have not joined the european union, and i wonder if it is because they have the best of both worlds. the benefits of being in the european union without the obligations. here today i am a bit dubious as well. the commissioner mentioned they will have to pay. of course they will have to pay, but normally non-members pay more than members of clubs. however, i will bow to the superior wisdom and experience of doris pack in saying that this may be the way forward. it may help create greater european awareness among the citizens in switzerland and they may one day join the european union. if that happens, which i hope it will, i think all the credit will have to go to the commissioner and doris pack for their enlightened approach. in this season of goodwill, i am prepared to go along with the proposals.
mr president, i would like to thank the commission for the answer, incomplete as it is. there are very specific questions raised by the chair of the committee on agriculture and rural development and they have not been answered fully. i would particularly question the figures, and perhaps you might clarify them? did you say that 66% of production is now free-range? that is not the information i have. i dare say that the information you have is therefore selective, and you do need to have a very thorough stakeholders meeting because those are, let me say, very enriched figures. they do not at all give the true story of egg production in the european union. let me also say that if it was easy to comply with this legislation and if our consumers really – and i mean this – really, really wanted welfare-friendly framing systems, they would pay the price for them. they want them. they do not value them, and they do not want to pay the price for these. i have not received one query from a consumer in my time here in the european parliament since 2004 begging me to have this legislation implemented. remember that, folks. that is the fact of the situation. having said that, it is important that this legislation passed by this house is fully implemented and that those who have invested huge amounts of money to be compliant are protected by the european union. i think the commission knows it will have a legal problem on its hands. let me address the market situation. there will be a very visible pile-up of eggs: 83 million of them on 1 january 2012 that are illegal! morally and ethically we cannot dump those eggs. it would be horrendous if we did, and also the market would suffer and prices to consumers would rise, and there would be protests and revolt. the commission needs to tell us what is going to happen on that day, because it is inevitable these eggs will be on the market and there will be a black market in eggs of some description, so we do need clarity on this. those who are in the transition phase also need to know that there will be no roll-back, because they are confused about the messages they are getting. of all of the issues we debated this week, this is a crucial one for our consumers, but also our producers. we need some answers from the commission.
mr president, thank you for your indulgence. i wanted to mention two other points in my contribution. the issue of eggs in shell is quite visible and clear. there is, however, a massive market for processed eggs for the confectionery sector and we need to know what sort of labelling requirements there will be for that product. i think this is where we have the greatest concerns because more and more eggs are going into the processing sector, and my fear is that we will export our cages from the european union and then import liquid-egg and dried-egg products from those very systems in third countries. i see you nodding in agreement. this is a very real problem for the european union. my other concern relates to parallel production systems and a huge problem in the marketplace if we have enriched cages coming into production while the current systems remain in production. that could cause major problems for producers and ultimately for consumers. so the commission has a huge balancing act to get this right.
madam president, on behalf of my co-signatories, ivo belet, hannu takkula, mary honeyball and joanna senyszyn, i thank all the members for signing this declaration. it was significant that almost 50% of the signatories were women so i would like to thank them very much for their cooperation and also pay particular tribute to joanna senyszyn. she did stalwart work and she might like to say a few words as well. so to everybody, i thank you and wish you all fun and games and lots of sport for christmas.
madam president, i voted against the resolution establishing a permanent crisis mechanism for the eurozone because in ireland and greece we see the reality that such mechanisms are to bail out a crisis-ridden financial system dominated by speculators and assorted profit-seeking sharks at the expense of working people, pensioners and the poor. today in brussels the european council will most likely decide to amend the lisbon treaty to give itself more powers to impose strict conditionality on any financial assistance given to member states, thus institutionalising the doctrine that society must pay for the crisis. i warn the irish government not to think it can foist this change to the lisbon treaty on the irish people without a referendum. the irish government has already turned our country into a vassal state of the imf, which is acting blatantly on behalf of the speculators and the financial markets. we demand a referendum on any change to the lisbon treaty so the irish people will have the opportunity to resist being turned into full-time serfs of the financial markets.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of this report in my capacity as the chairman of the european parliament delegation for relations with switzerland. the european commission, the european parliament and the member states of the european union agreed to establish the youth in action programme, which puts into effect the legal framework to support non-formal learning activities for young people. the aim of this proposal is to provide for the participation of switzerland in the youth in action and lifelong learning programmes. switzerland is the only european country to take part in these programmes without being a member of the eea, a candidate or a potential candidate country. although it has chosen not to join the european economic area, switzerland has shown sustained interest in closer cooperation with the eu in the education, training and youth fields.
in writing. − this report highlighted many of the problems facing afghanistan. the report is critical of the role of the nato-us occupation and of human rights abuses in afghanistan, in particular the increased repression of women and higher levels of poverty. the anti-war movement has warned of these problems since the start of the war. however, i abstained as i could not support the report’s support for the occupation and the ‘surge’ that has been carried out by the obama administration. i abstained on amendments calling for more support to the afghan state. i support respecting the sovereignty of the afghan people, but the karzai regime is corrupt and does not reflect the interests of the majority of the afghan people. i call for all aid to be democratically controlled by the small farmers, workers and poor of afghanistan. i note the tribute in this report to ordinary soldiers who have been killed and to the afghan people who are victims of this war. i cannot agree, however, with the statement that military personnel died ‘defending freedom’. this is a war carried out in the interests of the major imperialist powers and not in the interests of ordinary people.
in writing. − we voted against ccctb but did not want to defeat other important aspects of this report. our support for the general provisions is not support for ccctb.
mr president, the hate campaign in uganda against gay and lesbian men and women, is truly appalling. the whipping up, by some religious elements and by sections of the media, of a vicious and reactionary homophobic campaign, which includes threats to kill gay people, means that very many lesbians, gays and bisexual and transgender people in uganda are now living in great insecurity and fear. it is contemptible that some politicians are also using this issue and whipping up hatred, proposing even the execution of people who are gay. i salute the courage of members of the gay community in uganda who bravely fight each day against this menacing threat to their identities and their very lives. the homophobic campaign is driven by smears, lies and distortions about gay people and what being gay means. the strongest message must go out to the ugandan government – including a review of aid, although of course we do not want to hurt ordinary ugandans. we should encourage active solidarity with organisations in uganda which champion the rights of gay people, to assist them in this crucial fight for justice and human rights and for the basic right to be who you are.
