, on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are two reasons for this: i think it is a bit strange that parliament refuses to vote on this matter, everyone has his own opinion, everyone can think what he wants, but as a parliament i think we have a duty to express ourselves on this matter in the way that everyone sees fit. secondly, this house had already asked for it, had already voted to include it as a vote by moving it from december to january. i now believe that the bureau, or rather the conference of presidents, should not have gone against a precise and timely expression of the house, and i therefore believe that the house should be speaking on this in a few moments.
, on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would ask you to keep this item on the agenda: the massacre of coptic christians, the day after or on the night of coptic christmas, and the numerous killings of christians in malaysia speak of a very clear problem, which is that of religious freedom in these countries. the motion for a resolution is not in itself an initiative against individual and specific governments, but a way of highlighting how the drama of religious freedom is a foundation of our civil coexistence and it is therefore right that parliament should express itself on this subject.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as a member of parliament for the north-west of italy, i would like to point out to parliament and the commission certain alleged violations of existing treaties and democratic rights which are being perpetrated by the italian government and local authorities in piedmont in connection with the new lyon-turin railway project. the large european funding for this line was conditional on the existence of a shared project by the local populations and the existence of financing with italian private investments. these two conditions are not met, because on the one hand there is no private italian funding, and on the other hand the local communities have been silenced by a government decree which requires that only those who agree with the existence of the railway line may speak. in the absence of these two conditions, it is suspected that there is a kind of fraud on the part of italy against europe.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i express my deep sympathy to all those affected by this natural disaster. in situations like this, with extensive destruction of buildings and infrastructure and thousands of deaths, it is almost impossible to deliver aid effectively without minimum conditions of public order and security. any aid measure is difficult without close coordination in the collection of the necessary goods and an orderly distribution of aid. understanding what it is, who it is for, and when it is needed is crucial. another element to consider is that too often the generosity of public and private donors has been betrayed and vast financial resources have not gone to those who really needed them. a strict system of controls is therefore needed to prevent dispersion or theft, especially in fragile countries with a high level of corruption and poor governance. europe is called upon to demonstrate its efficiency. i hope you succeed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, haiti is experiencing a huge tragedy, caused by nature but also by the absence of a state worthy of the name, incapable of handling even the slightest of the disaster and the humanitarian emergency, incapable of handling aid for the civilian population which is now the prey of unscrupulous people. the red cross has issued a cry of alarm. at the montreal conference on 25 january the eu will have to speak with one voice and call for a coordinated and single management of humanitarian intervention, otherwise the interventions, even the very large and valuable ones that the commission and the member states have told us about today, will be in chaos and useless. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this would only lead to a kind of legalized deportation of children that haiti does not need. it is right that the italian foreign minister, mr frattini, has proposed that we should build facilities and family homes to enable them to grow up in dignity in their own country and to facilitate temporary trips abroad for holidays and, above all, for education. i'll close with a question: is there an international willingness for debt relief or debt cancellation for haiti?
mr president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, the immense tragedy that has struck haiti requires an immediate response and there is a lot of aid and relief being given by individual member states, even though there is a fair amount of competition between european countries. the new europe with its high representative must be able to bring its aid to the affected populations. the earthquake also hit the poorest country in the western hemisphere, where 80% of the population lives below the poverty line and 54% in absolute poverty. but there's another emergency inside this one: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. i would therefore urge the high representative for foreign affairs to consider specific actions to enable haitian children up to the age of 10 to be welcomed and protected by european states. europe, mrs ashton, can welcome them and offer them adequate living conditions for a limited period of time, of course, until the conditions are right for their return home. all this can be promoted, all this can be easy for the european states, it would be a right way to respond to the necessary solidarity, but also a way to avoid speculative and illegal actions behind the backs of children. we are talking about children and therefore the most precious resource we have to protect in haiti.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the unprecedented humanitarian catastrophe in haiti is a matter of deep concern to us and requires the european union to make its best possible contribution to the efforts of the international community with all its instruments. in terms of financial resources, important progress has been made in the last few days and hours. what deserves reflection are the other aspects of the european response to the crisis, perhaps avoiding concern about image but focusing on substance, as the high representative has rightly said. the central role of the un minustah mission, both in the civil protection and security fields, has now clearly emerged, which excludes the scope for an autonomous csdp mission, but in support of the un mission the eu's coordination role remains central. i would remind mr juvin that this coordination is being carried out by the mic on the civil protection front and by the situation centre on the security front, and it is hoped that this work will eventually lead to the deployment of the european gendarmerie which has been expressly requested by the united nations. what is useful to understand from the high representative, from the commission, is how the mic and the situation centre are actually responding to such demanding tasks and tests, how their coordination is working, whether their instruments and resources are adequate. this will also help us in a reflection we will have to make later on the adequacy of these instruments, on the capacity of consular protection, but now is not the time for these discussions, now is the time for action and commitment, our support for the action of the high representative is full.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. we are concerned about the increasing violations of political and civil rights, which we strongly condemn, and we are concerned about the failure to fulfil the obligations arising from adherence to the non-proliferation regime, which iran says it does not want to call into question. we do not question iran's right to the peaceful development of nuclear energy, nor do we intend to underestimate the important role that iran can play on a regional scale, its legitimate security needs, the need to create a credible regional security system involving all the nuclear powers in the area. but that is precisely why we do not understand the reasons for the rejection of the iaea's request for uranium enrichment abroad and we deplore this choice. in the face of this situation, it is up to the security council to define the response of the international community and the possibility of new sanctions which should be focused on non-proliferation and which should be conceived as a tool to support the path of a dialogue which is difficult but inevitable, avoiding that they are conceived and used to tighten the regime. the european union must play its part in this process by initiating, in the appropriate time and form, a technical reflection on possible measures to complement the un sanctions, while at the same time reaffirming its readiness for dialogue and discussion, which must never be lost, even in difficult times. in line with this, which was well expressed in the high representative's speech, we will give full support to the action of the european union and the high representative.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation inside iran is worsening. at least eight people have been killed recently, the regime has intensified arrests of women journalists, trade unionists, intellectuals 30 mothers demanding news about their missing children have been arrested, the tomb of the young freedom martyr neda agha soltan has been repeatedly desecrated with gunfire. the regime's intention to intensify repression and to create a climate of terror is clear. the european union has also been involved in the negotiations with the united states, which have been very successful. this clearly indicates the real intentions of the iranian atomic programme, which, if they were exclusively peaceful, would have no need to be hidden. europe must therefore express its strong concern that a military and nuclear force could jeopardize the security of the continent and have important political repercussions for all the countries of the region.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we often write in the publications and on the websites of the european union that human rights are at the heart of the process of european integration and the essential element of its external relations. countries which have concluded political or trade agreements with the european union are bound to respect these rights. we must ask ourselves, baroness ashton, whether these requirements still apply in our relations with iran and whether it really makes sense to send our delegation to tehran without agreeing with the iranian government on a common programme, a programme which allows us to listen to the reasons and voices of the opposition as well. we must also be careful about what we can do when we talk about sanctions, because history shows that economic and trade sanctions have often strengthened regimes rather than weakened them, and have instead weakened the people and especially the poorest. so, when we heard some people in the delegation, testimony of women's rights and minorities in iran, they told us that maybe it was better to do symbolic sanctions, cultural sanctions. these days many officials and many intellectuals throughout europe are writing an appeal to prevent unesco from celebrating world philosophy day in tehran. i think that this can be a commitment that this parliament also makes, remembering that neda was a graduate student in philosophy, and that this symbol can unite the european parliament by calling on unesco to intervene.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the last few weeks we have seen how the iranian government, the iranian regime, has been responsible for serious violations of human rights and the most basic democratic freedoms. so for this parliament and for europe the problem is no longer just that of its relations with a country which imagines a nuclear policy outside the shared rules and specific controls which are normally provided for in these matters by the international community. there is something new, or the accentuation of something old even more worrying, that which concerns the rights of the people. i am convinced that iran could potentially play a much more important role in the region occupied by that country. however, i believe that this increase in violations of human rights must be a priority for us, for the high commissioner. the government's repressive action has not dampened the voices of democratic dissent. the international community must now play an active role in helping those who oppose the regime and believe that their fundamental rights must be respected. so we have to ensure a constant presence. the european parliament delegation can, by identifying very specific objectives, go to iran to show solidarity with the iranian democrats and certainly not to unintentionally share the repressive actions of that government. i think we should go back to talking about this and achieve our objective.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, baroness ashton, you have painted a dramatic picture of the situation in this great country with a great history, a great culture, a great civilization. there is the repression of dissent and opposition, there are very serious restrictions on civil rights, there are violations of freedoms, there is a worrying nuclear programme and there is a threat to israel and to peace. unfortunately, i did not understand, i did not understand what initiatives europe intends to take to put an end to this situation, to defend peace, to defend freedom, to defend civil rights. i hope that in the conclusions of the debate you will be able to list some facts and some initiatives, some statements of position, perhaps even responding to the proposal made by mr scurria. as for parliament, mr president, i am part of a delegation which has struggled to get permission from the iranian government to go to iran, which was unable to cancel its trip in protest and which has suffered the shame of being banned by iran. i am in favour of dialogue with iran, but the italian parliament and the delegation must represent our position in defence of freedom and rights that are threatened.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to avoid listing any more the reasons for our disagreement with the iranian government. i would just like to point out, as i have not been mentioned here, that one of the most serious violations of civil rights is that of young people, since the iranian government has also signed the united nations convention on the rights of the child, but continues to execute minors. i would like to see baroness ashton commit herself after this debate to a common position of the whole of europe and of the whole of the european parliament on the iranian situation, and i would also like to see the interparliamentary committee and the iranian government agree that the line of action must be changed. i joined my friends scurria and tatarella in the protest we had made against the commission, which had, however, even in an official statement, declared that it wanted to go to iran, having instead peremptorily asked that there be the possibility of meeting the opposition and of dialogue with it. i would like the commission to turn the page and to have relations of help, support and confrontation with the representatives of the opposition in exile, not least mrs myriam rajavi who represents this reality. that is what the european community should do rather than sanctions.
the court is in session. the agenda includes the statement by the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy/vice-president of the commission on the situation in yemen.
the s&d group is very concerned about the situation in yemen, because there is a global threat there: the failure of the attempt to blow up a us airliner, the threats against foreign embassies, the intensification of al-qaeda attacks, the latest in afghanistan, must be taken into account. unfortunately, the internal situation in yemen does not help, because we have to consider that it is one of the poorest countries in the world, has serious problems with water resources, has high unemployment and an economy heavily dependent on oil and gas revenues, which are estimated to be exhausted within the next ten years. i therefore believe that it is essential for the european union to take action in the form of close cooperation between the european commission, from the standpoint of humanitarian aid and development, and the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, on matters of common security, cooperation with the police and border control. i cannot help but express our concern at the repression of political opposition representatives in that country, journalists, human rights defenders, who have long been the subject of the attention of humanitarian organizations working in that country. i therefore regard it as a priority, mrs ashton, to ensure that humanitarian aid organizations can enter yemeni territory to operate in the greatest possible security. i also hope that the european union will make an effort to ensure that yemen respects the commitments it made at the international donors' conference in 2006, namely to intensify the process of political and economic reforms in order to improve democracy and the living conditions of the population. since 9/11, we've learned that securing high-risk areas depends on how much we're willing to bet on better living conditions. democracy, mrs ashton, starts here, with the ability to reduce the gap between rich and poor countries.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, yemen is not just a new frontier for terrorism, as some have called it, but a country of precarious stability. the lack of control over the territory by the central government and the permeability of the borders allow the development of illicit trafficking, uncontrolled migration, piracy and terrorist activities. the response to the new challenges of al-qaeda in yemen should not be limited to military pressure but should also help to improve the control of the territory by the local authorities. i repeat, local authorities and not just government. the stability of yemen should be achieved through a national and regional ownership approach, without imposing external or pre-packaged solutions that are often foreign to local realities and fail. this would facilitate a greater commitment by the gulf cooperation council itself, whose financial participation in local projects would be crucial. the european union should work together with yemen's partners, the g8 and the gulf countries, with financial and project contributions shared by the yemeni government. i conclude: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, high representative, ladies and gentlemen, the deep political, economic and social crisis in yemen is linked to the operational presence of al-qaeda in its territory and the jihadist vision that animates it. yemen is one of the poorest countries in the world and the management of internal strife is fraught with difficulties due to the religious origins of the conflict between the shia and sunni minorities. as the motion for a resolution stresses, aid, cooperation and support are essential for the implementation of social assistance programmes. but we must also stress the risks to the west if security problems are not tackled with clarity and resilience. the reasons which motivate terrorists to train militarily and to educate themselves in acts of martyrdom are the result of the ideology of jihad which is increasingly spreading and taking root on the african continent as well as the indifference and superficiality with which the international community has dealt, or rather has not dealt, with al-qaeda and its offshoots in somalia, sudan and yemen. we must remember the cause and effect relationship between the terrorist presence in yemen and the aggregation of destabilizations that are being carried out against somalia, which is a pawn in the hands of the forces of al-qaeda in yemen, which in turn are, more than the wahhabis of saudi arabia, dependent on the iranian ayatollahs, receiving arms and money. support for yemen cannot be separated from the issue of security.
high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy/vice-president of the commission. − madam president, once again an important and wide-ranging debate on an area of the world where we have for some years had a focus. i was reflecting on the fact that, over the period 2007-2010, eur 100 million have been spent by the commission in support and a similar amount will be spent in the future but nonetheless an area where we have reflected again on the importance of sustainable and coordinated effort, as many members have pointed out. i think that mrs salafranca’s comments at the beginning have been picked up and reflected again in a number of contributions about how we can make sure that our coordination is effective in terms of security, in terms of the political and economic coming together to address the concerns that this nation faces. mrs giannakou raised the question of dwindling water and dwindling oil; i think yemen is the first country that is expected to run out of water by about 2015, something which we have to see as a real and significant challenge. in order to address this we have to look at an integrated approach; a number of members raised the question of what is the strategy which we should pursue. let me try and outline a few of the key elements of that: first of all, the issues of security and counter terrorism. as we approach the london meeting we need to collaborate effectively on this, a point raised by a number of members: we need to get the package of assistance together and focus on the work that we are already undertaking, for example, in the atalanta mission off the coast and the importance of that. the issue of improving maritime surveillance is being looked at right now; it was the subject of a discussion i had recently with the spanish defence minister to see what more can be done in order to coordinate better and more effectively to deal with maritime security, bearing in mind the length of coast and the amount of space that have to be covered. i think, too, that we have described this comprehensive approach of how to link together the different elements and engage the neighbours of yemen. mrs brantner, you raised particularly the gulf cooperation council. i agree: a very significant part of how we try and address this area is to work collaboratively with the neighbours around the region and again the london meeting will, i hope, bring together the key member states from around the area who can help us. the london meeting is that opportunity, of course, to pull together our thinking and to do so with the united states and with others. we are engaging with the united states. it is not true to say that their approach is confined to counterterrorism: they also support and are fully on board with what we describe as out ‘root causes’ approach, again the mixture of things which we need to do to ensure that we support this country. to answer the specific point on security, the eu home affairs informal meeting is taking place in spain this weekend. i understand the american counterpart will be there in order to have discussions on the points which members have raised. i agree with the comment that this is not a christmas tree or wish list. we have to be very selective about what we believe we can do to make a difference; helping yemen to have the type of dialogue it needs to have internally in order to support the people and to try and resolve some of the conflicts which occur in that country is going to be just as significant in my view as anything else we do. asked about finding the right kind of support, the stability instruments too, can be used appropriately, i think, to provide the level of support, but this is no substitute, and could never substitute, for trying to support the government to have the internal dialogue that only they can have. partners have to engage in yemen to be able to address the problems which are of greatest significance for that. so for me this has been a very useful debate, i am very grateful, because again it helps me in my mind to set the agenda of the issues that i will take to the foreign affairs council as we debate this and then on to london engaging, as i have indicated, with the government on all the elements where we can provide continuing support to develop the country economically, to deal with counter terrorism, to deal with the issues of support from the neighbourhood too. i think a final point is to recognise the plight of the hostages which has been raised a number of times: six hostages, one british, five german including some very young children with the german family who have been taken hostage. i know that minister westerwelle, the german foreign minister, was recently in yemen. he and i spoke about it this week, and our thoughts will always go to the hostages who are suffering at the present time. we will take all of these issues into the meeting in london and i am very grateful again to honourable members for raising these important matters.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place during the first part-session in february.
the agenda includes the statement by the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy/vice-president of the commission on the situation in iraq.
high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy/vice-president of the commission. – madam president, when we look at iraq today, we see real progress, though the country still faces a multitude of challenges. but i want to focus today on the present and the future of iraq, as a country with great potential and notable achievements over the past months. violence today is at its lowest since 2003. although we have seen terrible attacks targeting government institutions, the total number of civilian deaths in 2009 was less than half of the level of 2008. inter-sectarian violence, a major problem in 2006 and 2007, has been significantly reduced. iraq has a new constitution and has conducted several elections with high participation at great risk. thanks to the courage of the iraqi people, democratic institutions have taken root. provincial elections last year went fairly smoothly all over iraq. crucially, the next general elections, due on 7 march 2010, can be another big step towards consolidating the iraqi democracy. for our part, this means our work to support iraq must continue, and move into new areas as the situation improves. the european union has provided more than eur 1 billion in assistance to iraq since 2003. it has gone towards basic services, human development, refugees, good governance, political process and capacity building – all in accordance with iraqi priorities. our integrated rule of law mission, eujust lex, has been extended several times at iraqi request and is now also training inside iraq. the eu has been playing a leading role in electoral assistance, and we will continue to assist iraq in this and other areas until iraqi institutions can assume full responsibility themselves. as there is good progress, we are focusing more and more on iraqi ownership and long-term sustainability. we are also developing our relations with iraq. we have just signed a memorandum of understanding on energy cooperation, and we will soon sign a partnership and cooperation agreement, the first contractual relationship between the eu and iraq. it will cover issues from political dialogue to trade and regulatory cooperation and development assistance. we want a broader and deeper political dialogue with iraq, which should also cover human rights. parliament has taken a keen interest in iraq, and we expect to see even more cooperation between the european parliament and the iraqi council of representatives in the future. clearly, iraq must deal with the many challenges. the upcoming general elections will be crucial, and should be free and fair. with our international partners, we will be following them very closely. the eu will be deploying an election assessment team to iraq to assess the election and make targeted recommendations. honourable members, iraq is on a positive trajectory. i am confident it will use its new institutions to find the compromises necessary for national reconciliation. for our part, we will continue to stand by iraq and continue our support together with the un and the rest of the international community. i look forward to our debate.
i think it is very important that the european parliament should seize the opportunity of this debate in the run-up to the iraqi elections in march. the iraqi political process has proved, as you said, interesting, important, but still very fragile, and it is therefore all the more important to do what we can to consolidate and strengthen the country's new institutions and the political balance on which they are based. this is an essential objective for us if we are to achieve the first substantial withdrawal of us troops in august without this having a serious impact on the internal situation in the country. the coexistence of shia, sunni and kurdish communities, which is now enshrined in federal structures, must be guaranteed by the new laws, but also by a political consensus of all these components. in this connection, we are concerned - and we would also like your opinion - about the recent decisions of the electoral commission to eliminate numerous candidates and parties closer to the sunnis or christians, thus risking to weaken the already fragile democratic process in iraq. the european union must follow this electoral process through the actions it is taking, as you say, as you have said, but it must also give itself greater ambition in developing its relations with iraq. the eujust lex programme directly involves us in the process of improving iraqi legislation and democratic institutions and as a socialist and democratic group we welcome the fact that the council has decided to extend the mission until 30 august 2010. the union must continue to provide strong support to iraq through its cooperation programmes, with the aim of participating in the process of stabilization and development in the country, strengthening relations between parliaments after the elections. it should be remembered that many member countries are cooperating with iraq, including italy in the important cultural cooperation programme. the political balance in iraq is essential not only for the country but also for the role that iraq can play in the region strategically, with the aim of overcoming the existing conflicts and ensuring peace. in this sense, the improvement of relations with turkey by the kurdistan regional government is a positive step in this direction. but iraq, as we know, remains a country with very serious problems of security, respect for democracy and human rights and also economic insecurity. it is the most vulnerable groups such as refugees - 10% of the population - ethnic minorities, women, religious minorities and children who suffer the negative effects of this situation. we must therefore play an even more decisive role in this respect - and i close - also by supporting the local and european ngos working in iraq, and women in this respect can also be strategic actors in involving them in overcoming the difficulties of the population.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we warmly welcome the forthcoming elections in iraq, which represent a further step towards democracy. it won't be free and fair, but we have to take it one small step at a time. the reconstruction of iraq in economic, commercial, cultural and financial terms and the guarantee of its security are essential conditions for the development of democracy, but we must also encourage the institutional strengthening of the country. the peaceful coexistence of the various ethnic and religious groups in iraq can be achieved through a renewal of institutions, with the implementation of a federal formula federalism which allows a broad autonomy of the various territories within a unitary state. the experience of iraqi kurdistan could be a useful reference. i would like to know the high representative's opinion, baroness ashton, on this institutional aspect of the country.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as liberal democrats we want to take advantage of the revision of the cotonou agreement to affirm an idea of modernity shared with the acp countries, and when i speak of modernity i mean above all the affirmation of policies which can emphasize and allow greater freedom. freedom from the bureaucracy which is becoming more and more excessive in the acp countries and which is becoming a constant obstacle to economic development. freedom as an opportunity for students in particular to go abroad to study, and i think we should take advantage of the review to launch an ambitious scholarship programme. freedom through the dissemination of new information technologies so that the internet in particular can become as much of a shared heritage as possible. finally, allowing the free movement of workers so that the serious interference with the bilateral treaties, to which mrs de keyser also referred, can also be resolved. cotonou, which is the direct daughter of lomé and yaoundé, has a long history, has been at the forefront, and if it can meet new challenges it will still be able to play a great role.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, one of the objectives of the second review of the partnership agreement is certainly to promote a culture of responsibility. it will be difficult to achieve this without the contribution of civil society organisations, non-state actors and parliaments. i do not think that policies are possible which correspond fully to the real needs of the communities concerned. a second key aspect is that of humanitarian aid. the $300 billion in aid that has been given out over the last 40 years has had no effect when we consider that the growth of the african continent over the same period of time has been less than 0.2% per year. the international community must begin to realise that this is an apocalyptic scenario, and that we must finally address the question of developing countries as a problem that is really ours, a problem that concerns us, the daily lives of our communities, and that we must face day by day together with local institutions, which are always looking for a loophole in legitimacy. and finally, let me stress that investing in human capital means aiming to understand that the greatest source of recovery is people, who are living in a situation of discomfort. it is their responsibility to bring the continent out of the doldrums, and it is our responsibility to bring attention to the problems of those countries with a clear objective: the community must not be allowed to be the arbiter of the world's economic and social problems. we need to look at people instead of money, at substance instead of advertising. this will allow us to make the best use of our strategies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the acp assembly is particularly important at this political moment when globalisation has practically divided the world into countries producing products and countries producing ideas, giving rise to a migration of workers, as well as of course of goods. the mediterranean is at the heart of this process, a real crossroads between europe and the acp countries. the cotonou rules must therefore be adapted to this new reality and i propose - at the request of the president of the italian republic, giorgio napolitano, who also officially supports this proposal - that a peripheral seat or a fixed meeting per year of the acp assembly be set up in the most multiethnic, most mediterranean european city and closest to the acp countries, naples. i therefore propose that this proposal, which has the added advantage of bringing europe closer to the citizens and people of southern italy, which is europe's real logistical platform towards the mediterranean countries, be discussed in the new agreements.
acting president of the council. - i would like to express my satisfaction at having seen in the speeches of many members of the european parliament, from very different groups, a coincidence in the need for procedural guarantees to be harmonized at european level, for a genuine european law on procedural guarantees to be drawn up. there was agreement from all the parties involved and from all the parliamentary groups to draw up a genuine european law on procedural guarantees. this highlights the importance and the need for the process of european construction, the importance of the citizens' europe, of the european judicial area, of implementing the treaty of lisbon; in short, of something which is at the heart of the programme of the spanish presidency for the next six months and which has received undeniable support in all the speeches which i have heard, for different reasons, from different perspectives: the need to move towards harmonised procedural guarantees. i would also like to take up the point made by mrs flašíková beňová, which i think is very important, that this is necessary at a time when the european union is about to sign, as the lisbon treaty says, the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. i would like to conclude by pointing out, mr president, that the council and the spanish presidency will work to ensure that all these procedural guarantees are put into practice, through the directives which the european commission will put forward in due course and also on the directive which is already in progress and on which thirteen member states have taken the initiative. finally, i would like to make a point about the euro-order. the euro-order has been mentioned in order to criticise it. i would like to say that the euro-order is a fundamental example of the european union and of cooperation against organised crime in the european union. i can say this very loudly from a country like spain, which is still suffering from terrorism and for which the euro order is a fundamental weapon in the fight against terrorism.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, the minister is right, and mr coelho said it very well earlier: 'europe of security, europe of justice'. yes, mr watson, the european arrest warrant has been very effective and very useful, although it is true that at the same time the european judicial area must be organized, and that is where we have to work for this europe of justice, so that there is really confidence in the way justice is delivered throughout europe. in this respect, i would like to thank the authors of the question once again and to reiterate that, on the basis of the text which reflects the general approach of the council of 23 october 2009, the commission will, with the help of parliament and the spanish presidency, ensure that the quality of the text is higher than that of the current text. i would add that we will of course make sure that all the necessary legislative proposals are put forward in good time so that no initiative from the member states is necessary. the commission is already working on the proposal on the letter of rights. the commission will endeavour to ensure that all the measures set out in the roadmap are adopted as soon as possible. the one-year timeframe for the adoption of each measure is indicative only. if the negotiations permit, the commission agrees to move to a higher speed; it's obvious. i believe in my heart and soul that people are mature, that the stockholm multiannual programme places a real obligation on us to achieve results in this respect, and i must say that since i have been given these responsibilities i have done everything i could to ensure that this matter of procedural guarantees is advanced, and even though we have chosen a step-by-step approach, i believe that we are now well on our way. and i thank parliament, i also thank the spanish presidency, for i am convinced that the europe of justice will make great progress in 2010.
acting president of the council. - mrs hedh, mrs bauer, i cannot agree more with the initiative, the question and the debate which you have raised here tonight. i believe that human trafficking is the greatest scourge of humanity and therefore one of the greatest challenges we have to face. and we have to tackle it together. this is yet another example of the importance of joining forces at european level and beyond to tackle this scourge. in your question you first talk about whether the approach that should be taken in the european union should be to focus on human rights, globally, talking about repatriation and reintegration, social issues and social inclusion. the answer is yes. we absolutely agree that that is the right approach. in addition, also in relation to proportionality in the severity of the penalties - another of the issues you raise in your question - and the need for additional measures with regard to the protection of victims. they have pointed out and insisted - and i agree with them - that the protection of victims is essential in order to combat trafficking in human beings and that the consent of a helpless victim or a child to exploitation is absolutely irrelevant, must be irrelevant in punishing exploitative behaviour. we think that the question of demand is also an important one. it is a very important reflection that must also be carried out. same with the jurisdiction issue. in paragraph 2 of the question, we think that coordination of information is absolutely necessary. we therefore also agree with a very correct approach to this question. we are also asked about preventive measures. it must be said in this connection that the european union has been working on these preventive measures. the council adopted a plan in this regard in 2005, which should be implemented effectively, and as you know, human trafficking is also covered by many agreements between the european union and third countries, for example the eu-africa strategic partnership. and it is also one of the priorities of the stabilisation and association agreements between the european union and the western balkans. the important role played by assistance in training and raising awareness of persons who may be in contact with victims, such as border police, police officers and security forces from third countries, in the fight against trafficking in human beings should also be noted. i would like to conclude by saying that the spanish presidency will work in this direction, that it will deal in particular with the issue of children affected by this trade, which is one of the main priorities of the spanish presidency. among other initiatives, we have asked the commission to present, by early 2010, an action plan on unaccompanied minors arriving in the european union. finally, mr president, the spanish presidency intends, during its term of office, during this semester, to have a debate immediately on a directive to combat trafficking in human beings which i am convinced the new commission will present immediately. as soon as this commission proposal is produced, the spanish presidency will begin its discussion in the council and with parliament. that is the expression of our determination to fight against this modern slavery, as the previous speakers have so well defined it.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, the minister has just explained how this trade in human beings was indeed a form of slavery. i am very grateful to mrs hedh and mrs bauer for asking this question. we must achieve a holistic, multidisciplinary approach which does not limit itself to repression but which includes international cooperation involving third countries. this integrated approach was the one adopted by the commission in the proposal for a framework decision published in march 2009. this framework decision builds on the council of europe convention on action against trafficking in human beings of 2005, but goes beyond that. so, of course, as the minister has just said, we will use the new legal basis provided by the lisbon treaty to present, as soon as possible, a proposal for a directive which will take account of the discussions which took place before the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. and we hope that this new proposal for a directive will maintain a high level of ambition. we feel that the european parliament must play a central role and that its commitment is very important in further strengthening the european legal framework for measures to combat trafficking in human beings. i will therefore give you some information in reply to the question. firstly, the sanctions: trafficking in human beings is a very serious offence and must be punished accordingly. the sanctions must be severe and the approximation of maximum sanctions must continue. the penalties vary widely between member states, from three to 20 years for the basic offence and from 10 years to life imprisonment for aggravating circumstances. even if we accept that the way in which sentences are carried out may differ from one member state to another, such a huge gap between the penalties is unjustifiable from a european perspective, and we will therefore provide for very high penalties in the new proposal. i come now to the aid and protection provided to the victims. the assistance, support and protection provided to victims of trafficking, including housing, medical and psychological assistance, counselling, information, interpretation services and legal representation, are all essential. of course, as the spanish presidency wishes, we will also consider specific and more protective measures for children who are victims of trafficking. the legal aid and representation scheme should be free of charge, especially for children. finally, in the course of 2010, the commission will publish its first report on the application of the directive on residence permits for third-country nationals who are victims of trafficking in human beings and who cooperate with the competent authorities. and we shall see, as a result of this report, whether the directive should be amended. as regards measures to discourage demand, the commission intends to include in its future proposal for a directive a provision requiring member states to take initiatives to this end and encouraging member states to criminalise the use of sexual services or labour where the user knows that the person is, and has been, a victim of human trafficking. as regards jurisdiction, the capacity of each member state to prosecute not only its own nationals but also persons habitually resident in its territory who commit acts of trafficking in human beings abroad must be increased. this is essential to combat the phenomenon of the so-called new mafias, that is, criminal organisations composed of individuals of different nationalities, who establish the centre of their criminal interests, and therefore their habitual residence, in a country of the union. then i come to the data collection. the commission has invested heavily in the development of common indicators for data collection. we must provide the european union with reliable, comparable figures. several important projects have been carried out, the results of these initiatives need to be appropriately monitored to develop a common indicator model with eurostat, with the european union agencies, europol, eurojust, frontex, fundamental rights agency. finally, i would like to conclude on prevention. we have a financial programme 'preventing and combating crime' which will include, in 2010, a targeted appeal on the fight against human trafficking. the stockholm programme also provides for specific measures which, in the general guidelines adopted by the justice and home affairs council, concern measures to strengthen cooperation with third countries. the commission has therefore drawn up a more comprehensive policy to combat trafficking in human beings. as i said, the commission will present a draft directive very shortly, and i am pleased that the spanish presidency has announced a debate which will enable you to enrich the commission's proposal, which i believe is timely, as this phenomenon, far from diminishing, is still increasing in our member states. so it is time to react, and to react forcefully.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank mr hedh and mr bauer for their initiative. human trafficking, as everyone before me has said, is a very serious crime linked to sexual exploitation and illegal labour. these are crimes committed by unscrupulous persons who recruit victims through the use of violence or even deceit, perhaps through the promise of honest and well-paid work and the threat, not only to the victims, but also to their children or family members. unfortunately, as is often the case, it is women and children who pay the highest price. it is estimated that there are almost three million victims of trafficking in the world, and almost 90% of them are women and children. in 2008, the european parliament, with the first european strategy on children's rights, denounced that child trafficking has several criminal objectives: organ trafficking, illegal adoption, prostitution, illegal labor, forced marriage, exploitation of begging on the street, sex tourism, just to name a few. the document defined trafficking as a real scourge within the european union and therefore the fight against trafficking and exploitation should become a priority for the future agenda of the european union, first of all by adopting all the necessary and urgent legislative measures also to ensure full protection and assistance to victims. the recent stockholm programme also mentioned the trafficking and exploitation of children. in conclusion, therefore, and also in the light of the debate this evening, we hope that the commission and the council will continue their efforts and that the commission will be able to make this new proposal for a directive, which we shall be examining very carefully.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i heard today during the hearing of the commissioner-designate a very specific commitment to combating trafficking in human beings. i was pleased to hear unanimity here. there was no such unanimity many years ago when someone from these benches - including myself - denounced the dangers that mass illegal immigration would create, including a great deal of help to the criminal organizations that use this labour force and the risks of human trafficking and also of organ trafficking. today, everyone has discovered this phenomenon and we can only be pleased with the unanimity of the commitment. but it would be important for him to realize that it is always the cause. the cause, the origin, the breeding stock of this trafficking has only one name, or one main name, one main cause: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal immigration, and has also been able to identify the role played by local, european and even extra-european criminal organizations in this phenomenon, because we now also have human trafficking, which is being handled by non-european organizations. then we'll take it from there. we seriously consider that this very serious, shameful phenomenon is a subspecies, a by-product of a poorly controlled mass illegal immigration. europe has the courage to call things by their right name.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased that we are addressing a subject like this today with an important question, for which i thank the rapporteurs very much, also for the great cooperation that has been between all the political parties and the two committees. i am also very pleased to have heard very serious words of commitment from the commission and also from the spanish presidency and i really hope that the new directive will soon see the light on the lines which i think have been shared quite substantially. i think we know that the figures in this field are very complex to analyse, but in short we are talking about almost 300 000 people, 79% of whom are women, many of whom are children, who are trafficked every year in our civilized europe and unfortunately we have to record an increase in these years. this too requires a very strong step forward in the light of the new powers of the european union and also in the light of what we have already agreed in the stockholm programme to anticipate innovations. it was a great step forward when we approved at community level the rule - which has been in force in italy for example since 1998 - that of humanitarian residence permits to be given to victims. but we must go further in protecting victims, including protection, social and occupational reintegration, the possibility of preventing the client - on which we must give very serious thought - and more serious, more effective measures in terms of penalties, which must necessarily be, as you said, commissioner, harmonized at community level. we are particularly asking that the consent of the victims to exploitation be considered irrelevant, in view of the great blackmail conditions in which this takes place. i'll close with this: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of the child are not only protected, but that there is also support for people who are coming to europe and who have already been victims of trafficking on the increasingly long and tragic journey they make before reaching our shores or our territories.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the eurobarometer indicators put spain in fourth place in terms of the percentage of people living in poverty, after latvia, romania and bulgaria, with 21%. in these circumstances and with the figures which have been repeatedly stressed, including those on unemployment, what is the immigration policy proposed by the spanish presidency? the spanish presidency says it wants to develop immigration. now, this all seems to me to be in blatant contradiction: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. do we want new immigrants who don't have homes, who don't have jobs? do we want to raise this already worrying level of people living on the poverty line? i think instead we should focus on the immigration issue on a fundamental objective, which is to integrate the immigrants we already have in our home, and stop... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president, welcome to the house. i confess that as a staunch conservative i was preparing for this confrontation as for a race, but you spoke of equality and human rights in a way that i can now recognize what unites us, not what divides us. you were a careful matador, i'll be a careful bull, i'll stay in my stable. but let me turn to two very boring questions about your contribution to the interpretation of the implementation of the lisbon treaty. you have set up different policies in your country under the principle of subsidiarity, giving priority to the demand for identity of many communities, from catalan to basque, from valencian to galician, not without controversy. how do you now intend to defend the principle of subsidiarity in the relationship between the states and the european union, that is, the demand by the states to have their traditions, their identity and their values recognised, in order to affirm the founding principle of the european union, 'united in diversity'? the second question is about the role of the high representative for foreign affairs: after lisbon, who is responsible, you or president van rompuy or president barroso, for explaining to baroness ashton that perhaps after 12 days she should get on a plane and fly to haiti? that the european union's foreign policy should not only have a budget, but also a face and a human capacity to share, as other heads of international organisations have done? unless, of course, you confuse haiti with tahiti.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr zapatero, thank you for your great commitment this semester, for the things you have announced to us, even though this is no longer the time for the list of useful things, but the time for concrete commitments to relaunch europe. we need to close this period of institutional set-up and tackle the big issues that still prevent europe from being able to compete on an equal footing with its partners in the world. we must understand whether the european union can one day very soon have a seat at the united nations, whether it can sit as the european union in the g20, whether it wants greater fiscal and social harmonization and what resources it wants to put into the european economy so that it can really do what other competitors in the world have done. we need to come here, and i say this to president barroso, with concrete measures to revive europe, so that in six months' time we do not have the same conclusions as we have had in previous years with other previous experiences. we also want to know whether this is the time when the great men of the world, as kissinger said 30 years ago, finally know the telephone number to call in case of need so that they can speak to someone in europe, not just the member states. the dignity of europe, which comes from the treaty of lisbon, is at stake, but so is the european social model, the fundamental democracy which we in the socialist and democratic group are strongly calling for and which we want to be the basis for the future well-being of our citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as chairman of the committee on constitutional affairs of this parliament i am pleased that the spanish presidency attaches importance to the implementation of the structural reforms provided for in the treaty on european union, particularly with regard to the european external action service, the citizens' initiative, the accession of the european union to the european convention for the protection of human rights, for which my committee has already appointed a rapporteur in the person of a spaniard, jáuregui atondo, whom you already know. but in an interview published in el país last sunday, you, mr president zapatero, expressed the hope that the law on religious freedom could lead to progress in spain towards normalization in all public institutions. so i would like to propose a very brief reflection on this: the structures of europe are a means to an end and the purpose of the european union is confirmed by the treaty of lisbon in article 2: the promotion of dignity, equality, freedom and solidarity. i cannot therefore help expressing some concern about the drift this debate on values is taking. there is a cultural unity which precedes economic unity. the strength of the european spirit is stronger than the public legal structure, i apologize. the soul of europe is rooted in the instinct for truth and beauty of ancient greece, in the cult of justice of rome, and in this extremely great heritage is christianity, which has inserted the value of the human person, always equal from conception to natural death. now, it is in the name of the cross of christ that we ask to go to haiti, to be present in haiti, because all human beings, the poorest in particular, are at the center. and so i ask you: what does "normalization" mean in terms of religious freedom? does it mean to require all citizens not to express their worship publicly? does this mean that we should forget the christian roots of our countries?
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the president-in-office has presented his priorities. all these are important issues, but the deafening silence on the fight against illegal immigration, which is not a priority, is striking. no reference to the strengthening of the frontex programme, to the need to make the agreements on the distribution of refugees more binding; the commission has not made any commitment to intensify cooperation with the countries of origin of illegal immigrants, nor to advocate in the un the need for identification centres for asylum seekers on the ground, which verify who is really entitled to be received. this is a very serious sign, which is a departure from the positions recently reiterated by the european council and the position of the italian government, which has always fought to put immigration control issues at the centre of the european agenda. i hope that the spanish presidency, beyond its generic appeals to respect for human rights, will be able to revise its priorities in the light of the commitments made by previous presidencies on immigration. we'll keep zapatero and his government in line until that happens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, last night the italian police arrested five people who were planning a mafia attack on our colleague, mr rosario crocetta, who is a member of this parliament and former mayor of a sicilian town called gela. according to the magistrates, as of today, january 20th, any day could be a good day for the bombing. i would remind you that the belgian authorities have not yet provided adequate protection for mr crocetta, who has been under protection in italy for some time, as the presidency of parliament knows. i call on the presidency to show solidarity with our colleague from this house and the european parliament and to ensure that mr crocetta is adequately protected in his work as a member of the european parliament.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, first of all i want to congratulate nikiforos diamandouros on being elected european ombudsman. as was pointed out in his report from last year, the crucial work is about building citizens’ trust in the eu, and we can all subscribe to that. we all have an important role to contribute to that important work, both as institutions and as individuals. relations between the commission and the ombudsman have always been very good and very constructive. i think our cooperation has become even smoother and more productive. through his inquiries, the european ombudsman and his team have done a lot to help develop and reinforce a culture of service within the commission. very important lessons have been drawn from critical remarks made, and we also see an increase in the willingness to achieve friendly solutions. this development should continue, and i know the commission will continue to follow closely the ombudsman’s activities and welcome his proposals. the years to come are going to be interesting and challenging for the ombudsman. i am, of course, thinking about the new possibilities offered by the treaty of lisbon. as you all know, the right to good administration is enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights. i am in no doubt that the ombudsman will enhance his contribution to strengthening democracy in europe. the tools are transparency and service-minded institutions. we all have a responsibility to support him in that work. so, again, congratulations on your appointment, and i wish you all the best for the very important tasks that lie ahead of all of us.
with this vote, the european parliament has expressed its confidence in the european ombudsman, whose mandate will last until the end of our parliamentary term. i would like to stress that this is a positive vote for all of us, for all european citizens. the european ombudsman will deal with complaints from citizens about maladministration in our institutions. the ombudsman answered questions before parliament on how to improve the transparency of his work, on how to improve cooperation between parliament and the ombudsman's offices, and on communication to the public. it will play a very important role in defending the european citizens, in helping them in their relations with the public administration, and perhaps also in making the citizens feel that europe is their common home. reducing the sometimes unproductive burden of bureaucracy is an objective we must all work towards. the union will become increasingly political if it can put the citizen at the centre of its action. i therefore hope that the new ombudsman will be able to implement past experience to further improve the positive relationship with the citizens of europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that my colleague, the rapporteur, mrs joly, has done a very good job with all the political groups on this report, which i wholeheartedly support, together with my colleagues from the epp. i would particularly like to express my support for the part of the report in which it is stressed that the negotiations for the revision of the cotonou agreement must take account of the consequences of the financial crisis on the one hand and of the phenomena of migration on the other and above all of the need to put a stop to illegal immigration. it has a very negative impact both on the economies of the acp countries, which are losing the labour force and skilled workers needed for development, and on the european union countries most affected by illegal immigration, such as italy, whose capacity to absorb immigrants is limited in economic and employment terms, beyond which it is not possible to go if we want to avoid social degradation.
in writing. - mr president, the role of the european ombudsman, the citizen's ombudsman, is of fundamental importance for the smooth functioning and transparency of the european institutions, which represent 27 member states and almost 500 million citizens. i would like to focus on the importance of the ombudsman's role in protecting the eu's languages, given the many complaints received in recent years for cases of linguistic discrimination, which have also concerned the italian language. i therefore welcome the re-election of the european ombudsman and, in addition to my wishes for a good job, i would like to call for due attention to be paid to the protection of languages.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the rapporteur and the various political groups on the excellent work they have done on this report, which i fully support. in the report, i would like to focus on the negotiations for the revision of the cotonou agreement. in fact, these agreements must take account of several critical aspects, such as the effects of the financial crisis, the increase in migration flows and, above all, illegal immigration. i am convinced that only a proper examination of economic cooperation would make it possible to contain the negative impact of the crisis and its consequences both on the economies of the acp countries - which as a result lose the labour force and skilled manpower needed for development - and on the countries of the european union most affected by illegal immigration.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the second revision of the acp-ec partnership agreement (the cotonou agreement). this agreement, which governs political, trade and development cooperation relations between the eu and the 77 acp countries and covers the period 2000-2020, was already revised in 2005. the provisions under the second review rightly call for the inclusion of ad hoc provisions on climate change, the review of the provisions on renewable energy, the strengthening of the provisions on rural development and food security, and greater efforts to combat illicit financial flows and tax havens. i am confident that this review will strengthen the partnership between the eu and the acp countries and ensure greater synergy and cooperation in pursuit of the common objectives to be achieved.
the next item is the debate on the council statement on swift.
acting president of the council. - there has been some intervention, in particular, i think it was mrs harms, referring to the possible publication of one of the language versions. i don't have that information, obviously. i will check and report back to you in writing. what i have said to you is that on 25 january the european parliament will have the agreement, which will enter into force provisionally on 1 february. in accordance with european law, in accordance with the law of the treaty of lisbon, in article 218 thereof, and in accordance with the vienna convention, signed agreements may enter into force provisionally. so it's within the law. it is important for the european union, and certainly for the council, that this agreement should remain in force. it is important that these agreements on the programme for monitoring the financing of terrorism remain in force. we think it is a positive step, that it serves the fight against terrorism and that it is a collaboration with a reliable country, a partner country and a neighbouring country, such as the united states, which has the same purpose as us: to fight terrorism. it is not at all a question of the time it has taken for the language versions to arrive, it is not a question of any escape, mr schulz, at all. it's not a matter of buying time, mr. weber. the swedish presidency, the council, as you know, a few weeks or even months ago, proposed that the council should send parliament this version, in this case in one language only, and the commission understood that this was not possible, that the commission itself should make the language versions and send all these versions. the council had this goodwill on the part of the swedish presidency and it was not legally or technically possible. that's why he's here now. i understand that the european parliament would have liked to have had this version before. absolutely, i share that. if i were a member of the european parliament, i would feel exactly the same way and wish i had had these versions sooner. it hasn't been, which is why i told you, it's not about buying time, or hiding anything, or escaping anything at all. i think we are looking at an agreement where the european parliament will have full capacity to intervene, full capacity. because the treaty of lisbon has entered into force and we believe that the vast majority of us have approved that treaty and that will give the european parliament the capacity to intervene in a sovereign way. the european parliament will be able to suspend the provisional agreement if it wishes. the european parliament will be involved in the negotiation of the next longer-term agreement. the european parliament, together with the council, will of course have all the powers to intervene in this swift agreement, which we consider to be an important agreement, which deserves to be discussed in this parliament in detail, seriously and without haste, and not hastily, to use an expression which you have also used. we are also in full agreement, mr verhofstadt and others, that the fundamental rights of individuals, the right to privacy, european legislation on data protection must be respected here, and we now have a further instrument to guarantee this, namely the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which has just entered into force because it is annexed to the treaty of lisbon, and which is fully in force. and one of the rights it guarantees is the right to privacy and data protection. so we have all the conditions to make a good deal. as regards mr verhofstadt's proposal to send a letter or to set out immediately a council position on the conditions laid down by parliament, i think that the point is that, when the european parliament has that document, we should be at its disposal in order to be able to discuss it, in all respects, with all those conditions and, therefore, to reach a serious, rigorous and not hasty agreement on this matter. but we do think it is essential that this interim agreement should enter into force at this stage and, in any case, the european parliament will also have all the powers conferred on it by the treaty of lisbon in order to be able to decide, in the last instance, whether or not the agreement goes ahead. that's up to you. it will be entirely up to the european parliament.
the debate is closed. i have anticipated that there is no possibility of giving the floor to others. if there is a request for a motion of order, i can take the floor. - please.
it was not a point of order, but we gave it the chance because the honourable member so politely asked to speak. please, minister.
acting president of the council. - i repeat what i said. i'm going to check that information mrs harms was giving me, i think, about that publication. i don't know, i don't have it here, obviously, and i'll let you know what's happened in that regard. in any case, i repeat, on 25 january you will have that agreement and we will be able to talk about it all you want. the spanish presidency and the government, and the council, are at your disposal to discuss this agreement in depth for as long as they wish, and its future validity will depend on the european parliament.
when exceptions are made, they become too many and i cannot deny mr schulz the floor. mr schulz, please.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
acting president of the council. - we will inform parliament of all the information it has requested, of the language versions, of the available ones, etc. and above all, in a rigorous and serious way. i believe that the council has never treated the european parliament in a humiliating way or withheld information from it; not at all. i am referring to the swedish presidency, which at that time made itself available to hand over the agreement, but it was not legally possible because all the language versions were not translated and now that the treaty of lisbon is in force, the european parliament will be able to deal with this matter in its entirety and the council will make itself available to the european parliament to give it all the information and to establish a dialogue on the subject. i think that is not bad treatment of the european parliament and therefore i cannot share the words mr schulz has spoken on this. and the facts are going to make it clear. there will be a full text available to the european parliament and we will be able to discuss it between the european parliament and the council as long as they wish, with as much depth as desired and with a final capacity of the european parliament to be able to decide on it. it's that clear. i therefore believe that there is absolutely no reason to fear any reservations on the part of the council, which believes deeply in respect for fundamental rights and which believes deeply in respect for parliament, which is the representative of the european people.
the debate is closed. i'm not giving the floor to anyone else on this subject. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the council and the commission on the outcome of the copenhagen summit on climate change.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the way to say that we did not warn you. the resolution on cop 15 voted by this parliament was smoke without a trace. we asked for too much, we got nothing. that's not the league saying, that's ivo de boer, secretary of the un climate conference. it wasn't a disaster, even though the deal is just a letter of intent. the text that avoided ending cop 15 with a blank cheque, agreed at the end of a marathon of negotiations of unprecedented length and scale, contains little substance. the copenhagen accord, agreed by us president obama, brazil's lula, china's wen jiabao, india's singh and south africa's zuma and imposed on all the others, has not even been formally approved. the plenary of the 192 participating states, after the opposite opinion of eight nations which prevented its adoption, merely took note of it. ladies and gentlemen, the global warming story is running out of time. since december, newspapers and television news have been announcing that europe is in the grip of frost. let's avoid unnecessary and costly speculation about the climate.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with some of my colleagues that the process of democratization in turkey is a fundamental step towards turkey's accession to the european union, and that our being together within the union is based on principles and values which cannot be renounced, and that their recognition is the sine qua non for the accession of any state. the same applies to turkey, which must carry out the necessary reforms to guarantee democracy, the rule of law and the protection of human rights and minorities. in particular, cultural, religious and political pluralism are the cornerstones of a democratic society, but their recognition is an arduous process that is intertwined with historical, ethnic and religious reasons. the events surrounding the rejection by the turkish constitutional court of the party for a democratic society, which is close to the kurdish minority, are an example of this. the closure of political parties and the fall of elected officials are always very serious events because they violate individual freedoms and democratic principles. the democratization process in turkey is undoubtedly dependent on the solution of the kurdish question. the union should make a strong political commitment, in concert with the political authorities of the countries concerned and joint action with the united nations. there can be no democracy without pluralism, as the strasbourg court has repeatedly stated. i hope that the turkish political system will move rapidly towards these principles. if turkey can do that, then turkey's accession to europe will be a great opportunity for us.
the european union is also committed to the development of the tunisian economy, and the tunisian authorities are fully aware of the importance of this development. it is true that there has been significant progress on the economic front and there are encouraging signs on the social front. however, on the political level, the question arises of whether the process of democratic reforms should be accompanied by more concrete measures after the presidential elections on 25 october. as we know, the european union's foreign policy aims to develop and consolidate democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. tunisia has made important commitments under the neighbourhood policy action plan on democracy, governance and human rights. the action plan sets out a number of priorities, among which particular attention should be paid to the implementation and consolidation of reforms, the strengthening of political dialogue and cooperation, in particular in the areas of democracy and human rights, foreign and security policy. it is in this context that the strengthening of institutions is needed to increase the participation of the various components of tunisian society in political life, to develop the role of civil society more, to continue supporting political parties to broaden their participation in the democratic process, to make it possible to respect even more freedoms of association, expression and media pluralism. we believe that these objectives can be achieved and that it is logical to expect concrete progress. we are committed to safeguarding the friendly relationship between the european union and tunisia, and to consolidating the existing link in view of the confrontation that may arise in the event of the country's advanced status. but we really need concrete steps forward from tunisia itself.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tunisia, like the whole of the maghreb region, is a strategically important area. it has enormous growth potential and is an area of attraction for strong interests, not only economic but also european. programmes with the european union have also recently been launched with a view to crossborder cooperation. it is therefore time to relaunch the european union's relations with the african countries bordering on it, starting with tunisia, by making full use of the potential of this area and supporting its social and economic development, but in a framework of freedom and security. the link between the peoples of the mediterranean is the key to giving cohesion and strength to an ambitious programme of economic and social development. on the political level, tunisia is a country where democracy is still relatively young, but the action plan seems to be in line with the european union's expectations. the emergence of new parties and a fairly large female presence in parliament following the elections at the end of october 2009 attest to a significant advance in democratic participation. in any case, freedom of the press, equal opportunities for men and women and, more generally, fundamental human rights must be strengthened and defended. it is in this context that we can help to complete the path that tunisia has taken by removing all possible limits to the full expansion of the human person in that territory, and all this within a more advanced status. the central role of tunisia in the mediterranean and the process of modernization which has begun in that country require a serious and balanced approach leading to a full affirmation of the values in which the european union believes. the european parliament can no longer afford to make mistakes on the road to democracy. on the other hand, constructive dialogue and careful diplomacy can further consolidate a relationship which is destined to be strengthened in a country which in some areas - justice and freedom of association - must be helped to grow, but a country, i repeat, which is absolutely central and vital to the stability policy of the mediterranean.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for me, who since 1982 have been going to tunisia two or three times a year and on 6 january as a catholic went to mass, as i do regularly, it is very difficult to think of tunisia as a country which is suppressing religious freedom. there are problems, but problems in looking at these countries, countries which are seeking a path of development, with the eye of the western countries, because if we used this parameter, the parameters that someone is using this morning in relation to tunisia, probably some european countries could not enter the union because the level of violence and the denial of freedoms that exists in some european countries is higher than that in tunisia. so, the question is, what is the starting point? we are faced with a country which has abolished islamic fundamentalism, which is trying to pursue a policy of cooperation and peace with europe, which is trying to evolve. there are problems: i believe that the way to solve these problems is to intensify dialogue and friendship and help these countries do more.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution i have tabled draws on the tragic events which have recently occurred in egypt and other countries of the world - just yesterday in nigeria - in order to bring to the attention of this house the increasingly serious and intolerable situation of persecution and murder of christian communities. it is not a resolution against the egyptian government, which has been working to bring those responsible to justice, but a moment of reflection on a vast and worrying problem. every year thousands of christians are killed around the world, vietnam, north korea, china, nigeria, malaysia and millions more are persecuted in different ways for their faith in their daily lives. these attacks are growing in number and virulence in silence or indifference and deserve urgent action. first, the commitment of all to change the climate of religious hatred that is spreading and to promote tolerance and acceptance of diversity. europe is well aware of the tragedy of wars that for centuries have pitted catholics and protestants against each other, not to mention the jewish holocaust. europe must commit itself to this because of its history. another initiative could be to check national legislation, where we find laws which persecute christians or other religious minorities. the cooperation of non-governmental organizations could be very useful in this project, but even where there is a right to religious freedom, it must be ensured that this right is actually implemented. this debate could be an opportunity to launch the proposal for a european parliament report on religious freedom in the world.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of this resolution is religious freedom, not an identity crusade or an attempt to challenge this or that government, but the denunciation of the fact that people are dying in the world today because they believe in christ or are being discriminated against because my faith is different from yours. all the political groups therefore agreed that there was a problem of religious freedom and that it needed to be tackled seriously and consistently in the international community. we therefore call on the council and the commission, and in particular on the high representative for foreign affairs, to pay particular attention to the situation of minorities, including the christian minority, so that support is given to and initiatives taken to promote dialogue and respect between communities, urging all religious authorities to promote tolerance and to curb incidents of hatred and violence.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in voting in favour of the joint resolution i would like to stress the particular gravity of the violence in malaysia which is being perpetrated on a purely nominalistic basis. it is objectively certain that both christians and muslims believe in one god who is the god of all believing and nonbelieving men. the fact that it's called by different words is absolutely secondary. to claim that the muslim god is only muslim and therefore can only be invoked by muslims, with a traditionally muslim name, is to return to the ancestral and tribal view, according to which there was a god for each human group. that is to say, to contradict the monotheistic idea that makes great and close the universal religions that, like christianity and islam, oppose idolatry and polytheism. no less serious is the persecution of the copts in egypt. on the shores of the mediterranean, monotheistic religions have flourished, claiming to be and are forces of brotherhood and peace. it is tragic that on the shores of the mediterranean, in jerusalem, a city sacred to those who believe in god, allah and yahweh, is the greatest hotbed of conflict. egypt is the strongest country in the region where christians and muslims must live together peacefully for a peacemaking role in the whole area of the southern mediterranean.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, one of the most important human rights problems in china is the exploitation of forced labour in the laogai, the chinese concentration camps. this is not only a question of modern slavery but also of the european economy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the conditions for the free movement of persons are met. based on the experience of the united states, which has already passed laws banning the importation of chinese goods produced in laos, europe can and must do everything possible to prevent goods produced in part or in full by forced labour from entering its territory. first, a public awareness campaign must be launched on the subject; the commission is also proposing to introduce a new system of labelling for all products imported into europe, which will ensure that they meet the same health and safety standards as those applied to european producers, and to introduce rules on labelling to ensure that products can be traced. in addition, businessmen investing in china must be required to follow precise rules on workers' rights. finally, we must establish rules and, above all, enforce them so that there is an absolute ban on the importation of goods produced by forced labour. i am convinced that this is the only way we can really help the chinese people in their struggle for human rights. otherwise we will be accomplices who do not want these people to be free.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the series of murders that take place all over the world for political, religious and other reasons is a sad fact, but we are astonished at the inhumanity with which fifty-seven people were killed in a row during a political meeting to support a presidential candidate in the philippines. a massacre carried out in cold blood by an armed group in the name of a revolution whose meaning is difficult to understand. this mass killing is not an isolated phenomenon in this country, which has known areas of armed revolt that have lasted for years, including for religious reasons, such as in the mindanao region. in addition to the appropriate expressions of condolences for these bloody events, i believe that the philippine government should be offered strong cooperation in order to understand how europe can be useful in resolving the strong contradictions and armed oppositions that are bleeding this unfortunate country.
i asked you to speak, even though you had no right to do so, because explanations of vote are only admissible on the danube strategy and not on emergency resolutions. however, you have spoken, so i say this for future occasions: there are no declarations of vote on urgent matters. so i say this to the speakers who have signed up: the declaration of vote can only be on the european danube strategy. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪
that's not possible, sir. i have already explained that we cannot make a statement of vote on urgent resolutions. it can only be done on the european danube strategy. i'm sorry, but i don't want to do that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking in order to highlight the seriousness of the deindustrialization which is affecting several sicilian industrial centres, in particular the automobile centre of termini imerese, part of the fiat group, and the petrochemical centre of gela, part of the eni group. termini imerese is harmed by competition from the low wage system within some eu countries, while gela is harmed by asian competition. in view of the serious deindustrialization processes taking place in many parts of the union, i believe that the time has come to reconsider the policy of non-intervention adopted so far by the european commission and to start launching a package of relevant and strategic measures to support european industry. this appeal is addressed in particular to the european commission and to the commissioner for industry, mr tajani.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after the outbreak of the global financial crisis, the european commission has put forward a measure - the proposal we are discussing today - to improve the fight against tax evasion, which makes it possible to increase transparency between all the tax systems of the european states through the exchange of information on assets. this is a good measure. however, it should be remembered that, at the same time, a few months ago, the majority of the italian parliament approved the tax shield, which hides the identity of tax evaders and deprives european citizens of vat revenue. so while the whole world is fighting the vices of lawlessness, there are national laws that offend the dignity of honest citizens. it is for these reasons that, together with other colleagues from italy of values and the democratic party, we have lodged a complaint with the commission. we've been told that the offices are taking note of our observations. i therefore call on the commission to be courageous and to take responsibility for declaring the italian tax shield illegal and allowing those capital to be taxed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, gas natural, a spanish holding company, has submitted a project for on-shore gasification plants in the trieste area, which has been approved by the italian government's ministry for the environment. the trieste regasification technical panel has pointed out significant shortcomings. following the informal meeting between the european commission, italy and slovenia on 26 january 2010, the italian permanent representation to the european union disseminated the news of an alleged approval of the project by the european community, while the official minutes of the slovenian side state that the counterparties were invited to the agreement. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market. the institutions responsible for guarantee and security appear to have failed to fulfil their duty of protection. significant delays in the development of external emergency plans and communications to public bodies and agencies responsible for emergency management, lack of information to the public on the risks of a major accident on the behavioural standards and lack of objective assessment of the domino effect caused by a possible accident in high-risk industrial plants were highlighted. for these reasons we believe that an attempt is being made to introduce yet another high-risk plant, with the knowledge that there are absolutely no safeguards or safety measures.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of good fiscal governance, although always of great importance, has become even more topical and important since the great economic and financial crisis two years ago. the international, g20 and european summits have discussed and continue to discuss this issue, particularly when dealing with the fight against tax evasion and tax havens. all this is important, it is a sign of commitment and will, but we must not be under the illusion that an announcement is enough. we need a serious and continuous policy. there are still many problems. it is still too easy to buy or open a shell company to evade taxes. just look it up on the internet: there are thousands of websites offering companies to buy in european union countries. often, an e-mail, with a photocopy of the scanned passport attached, is all that is needed to open a company. the practice of creating fictitious legal entities to evade taxation must be brought to an end. the report i am presenting is based on the european commission's communication on good tax governance of 28 april 2009. the report goes in the direction of putting forward concrete proposals and calls for a strong commitment from the european commission and the council to implement these proposals. the fight against tax havens, tax evasion and illicit capital flight must be considered a priority for the european union. hence the principle of good governance, which is based on transparency, exchange of information, cross-border cooperation and fair tax competition. the point is that we need ever greater cooperation and collaboration in taxation in the european union. the general objective we must set ourselves is to achieve an automatic exchange of information on a global and multilateral scale, starting, of course, with the european union. as mrs alvarez has already said, banking secrecy in the countries of the european union must be abolished completely, and the temporary derogation system which allows the application of a withholding tax, often evaded or underestimated, in place of the exchange of information, must be brought to an end without further delay. i do not want to dwell on the specific proposals contained in the report. i would stress that we need a few points in particular: extend the scope of the 2003 savings directive, fight against vat fraud, establish a union public register of persons and companies who have set up companies or opened accounts in tax havens, reconfirm and relaunch tax harmonisation projects, starting with the common consolidated corporate tax base. the european union must also speak a common language at international level and strive to improve the oecd rules, so that automatic exchange of information is replaced by exchange on request. mr kovács, you have heard the other reports, we need a strong commitment from the commission and at this moment we need the new commission to be given these priorities when it is exchanging its duties. as the european parliament, we will hold the council and the commission to account for their work. i thank my colleagues, and especially the shadow rapporteurs, for their contribution to this work, which i hope parliament will approve.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank you for the appreciation you have shown for our relations, the result of our collective cooperation. i hope that these comments will be a good omen for a positive vote by the european parliament. i believe that our relations must be supported - as my colleagues mr stolojan and mr casa have also said - also on behalf of all those of our fellow citizens, honest taxpayers, who are the first to be penalised by tax fraud and tax evasion. the goal is to pay everyone to pay less. i would just like to make two comments. mr lulling, at the beginning of the debate, spoke of fiscal colonoscopy. i know from experience that colonoscopy is not a pleasant examination, although it can be very useful to human health. in taxation, there's a very simple way to avoid it: just don't conceal, don't hide your income and don't evade your legal obligations. the second observation is that it is right to be concerned at all times about how public money is being used, but it is also right to be concerned when governments are forced to use that public money to bail out banks and financial institutions that have been speculating.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the principle of equality between women and men is part of the central current of the great river that has already freed foreigners, slaves and blacks, and it is the principle of human dignity, equal for all. the commission's report and the tarabella report are both therefore welcome, because it is right to insist on this principle all the way and always. but there are two critical points which i think i should make. the movement for human dignity and equality must concern everyone, everyone, and therefore also those who are waiting to be born, the unborn children. it is therefore unacceptable, as in paragraph 38 of this report, to speak of abortion as an aspect of sexual and reproductive rights, that is, women's rights. no one denies the complexity of the problems of difficult and unwanted pregnancies - there are serious problems - but in any case we should not talk about them without mentioning the need for education in respect for life and for all kinds of help to the mother, so that she can freely choose to continue the pregnancy. the second criticism concerns the extension of the concept of sexual and reproductive health, as is done in recital x, beyond the physical, psychological and mental aspects, to include also the social aspects. i wonder what it means that any sexual behavior, whatever it is, should receive from others reasons for well-being and therefore recognition and praise. does this not end up violating not only the freedom of conscience but also the freedom of opinion? i am simply asking this question because it seems to me to be not trivial.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president barroso, if we were to follow the interpretation of facts proposed by mr cohn-bendit, through the interpretative key of hypocrisy, the european people's party would have decided to vote for it because it has 13 commissioners, the liberals because they have nine, while the socialists perhaps should abstain because their loot has been more limited. but that's not the way it is. in fact, the vote of many of us is tied to the answer to a deeper question: what role is the barroso commission called upon to play in this historic situation? it is called, mr president, to give hope to millions of people and businesses in difficulty, by breaking the system of subordination to lobbies and governments with stubbornness and the force of ideas. it is called, mr president, to give a european face to immigration and energy policies, to launch eurobonds to guarantee recovery. the european union's foreign and defence policy is a matter for the european parliament, mr president, and you, my dear baroness ashton, are called upon to assert it with conviction. according to martin schulz, you're like trappist monks who took a vow of silence. in this ideal path of holiness, i propose you take another vow: the vow of doing. there is much to be done. mr. president, let's do this quickly, let's do this right, let's do this together. i would like to congratulate president barroso.
mr president barroso, we progressives are voting you in today so that you are not subjected to blackmail by those who have little faith in this community europe and so that you are not subordinated to the government of the twenty-seven. believing in a community europe means breaking your deafening silence and taking a central role in the major international issues, defending europe's interests in the economic and industrial fields, strengthening social policy and investing more to defeat poverty in the world, consolidating without reservations the alliance with the united states, strengthening the european union in international fora, starting with the un security council, recovering multilateralism in world trade and dictating the agenda for combating pollution of the planet. we shall today vote a conditional vote of confidence, without discount, in the college and in the individual commissioners, so that the new europe born in lisbon, the political protagonist among the great powers of the world, can be fully realized and so that it is first and foremost a community of destiny, which is committed to its own civil and economic progress and has a mission of peace, justice and freedom in the world, and not just a community of memory, which lives in the present of its wealth and of a glory that has now faded over time.
in writing. i welcome, as chairman of the committee on constitutional affairs, the agreement reached on the principles of a new framework agreement between the commission and parliament. i should also like to express the need for a deeper reflection on the nature of the relationship between these two institutions. the prospect of democratic growth in the union continues to envisage the parliament as the representative of the peoples and the council as a second chamber representing the states. in this context, the commission should be regarded as a government, and it is clear that this configuration would require much more detailed rules than the adjustments which are deservedly outlined today. i would add a thought on the right of citizens' initiative. the legislation in this area will have to be measured against the effects which it is believed to have. these effects cannot be conceived without comparison with those arising from the pre-existing right of every citizen to petition the european parliament and with those linked to the limited powers of the parliament, which has no power of initiative but no power to ask the commission to take a legislative initiative.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the framework agreement we have just voted on considerably improves the role of the european parliament, a role which has been increased by the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. we have given you our confidence, mr president barroso, and we now expect you to respect our highest prerogatives. in particular, we believe that closer cooperation is essential in order to establish a regular dialogue between the two institutions. we take as a starting point the commitments you have made in this house, your willingness to institutionalize a regular dialogue on the big fundamental issues and on the important legislative proposals, your commitment to report on the practical follow-up to each legislative initiative within three months of your accession. mr president, our institutions will be called upon to implement the so-called 'democratic method' by establishing a special partnership to define, implement and, above all, protect the real european interest. the commission has a greater responsibility, but so do we, the direct representatives of the citizens of our europe. mr president, all these objectives require a renewed commitment on the part of all: the commission, parliament, national parliaments and governments. this is the europe that the citizens want and this is the europe we must be able to guarantee them in the next five years.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to have voted in favour of this new college of commissioners. i am glad to see men and women who are well prepared, with clear and concrete plans. if i may, i would first of all wish antonio tajani a good job, because he is a man of great value, who will make a great contribution to european industry. finally, as vice-chairman of the committee on development, i must stress the excellent impression i have had of commissioner-designate georgieva. she is a very determined and capable woman, who will be a very good point of reference for the committee on development. i wish you all a good day's work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted for the barroso commission because i am sure that it will be able to meet the challenges that the economic and financial crisis requires us to face with courage and determination. i also hope that some of the issues which are particularly close to my heart will be dealt with with due care. i am referring in particular to regional policies, which are of fundamental importance for the growth and development of our territories and which should not be cut by the reform of the european union budget. i also hope that the housing emergency of our fellow citizens, which often reaches alarming levels, particularly in large urban areas, will be supported. i therefore hope that specific financial instruments to support social housing and housing policies will be among the priorities of the new commission, to which i offer my sincere good wishes for a successful outcome.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have not received any concrete and satisfactory answers from the new commission on the problem of combating illegal immigration within the european union. that would be enough to disapprove of his work and his programme. there is another fact. the commission, and especially its president, has been very reluctant to accept the legislative initiatives of this parliament. this is a bit of a vulnus to democracy, at least as it is understood. we are the only members of parliament directly elected by the citizens and not respecting our right of initiative, or at least trying to undermine it, even though, with the new lisbon treaty, it is enshrined in article 225 of the treaties, does not allow us to trust barroso and his commissioners.
in writing. - my convinced vote in favour is intended to add greater vigour to the words spoken by president barroso, who announced the construction, over the next five years, of a more united and stronger europe. he began by recalling the values which underpin european unity, first and foremost human dignity. i am enthusiastically in favour of this, but the problem is that the word dignity has become ambiguous, because it is sometimes used not to guarantee the life and equality of men, but to impose discrimination against the weakest and to justify death. i hope, therefore, that in the next five years the commission will work to restore the word dignity to its true and unique meaning. it is symbolically important that on 15 december, when the new commission was being built, five hundred thousand european citizens from seventeen countries petitioned our institutions in a collective petition to interpret and implement the charter of fundamental rights in every decision on the basis of the equal dignity of every human being.
in writing. - europe urgently needs an authoritative leader, fully embodied by this new commission. the new commission will have the difficult task of fostering sustainable growth through the full implementation of the european economic model, namely the social market economy. strengthening the internal market will be the key to maintaining healthy competition in order to foster growth and job creation i am particularly proud that italy, with antonio tajani, is expressing continuity of merit and competence in the new european executive by assigning one of the key portfolios, that of industry, which is strategic in managing the crisis and in rebuilding the european production system. during this next term, the commission will have to set clear priorities and be able to give a european face to immigration and energy policies, giving the union a coherence that is difficult to achieve today. it will also have to ensure that the european union has a foreign and defence policy worthy of the name.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the weakness and the recent crisis in some of the eurozone countries are not only due to the difficulties of greece, portugal and spain, but also to the difficulties of the union itself. it is not just a question of economic resources, but a political problem. before europe can cure the sick countries, it must cure itself, because the real problem of this crisis is also the weakness of the union. common and effective rules and instruments are needed. firstly, we must speed up the reform of supervision, but by creating a system that really works and not just a duplicate of the existing authorities, which have proved ineffective in anticipating and managing recent crises, overcoming the bureaucratic logic with which systemic crises have been dealt with so far. secondly, there is a need for coordination and harmonization of tax policies, even at the cost of leaving behind those countries which are more reluctant. some argue that intervention by the international monetary fund is appropriate, ignoring the catastrophic signal that this would send to financial markets about the direction the euro zone would take. in the case of the current crisis situation in some euro area countries, the european union has a political, social and moral duty to intervene.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have heard the minister speak of cites as an effective instrument and the commission as an appropriate instrument. i'll sign for it. so let us not overturn this instrument which, contrary to what many colleagues have said, has worked very well so far. since the tuna fishery has been regulated, since the quota has been reduced, fishermen have begun to see not only more tuna but also larger tuna. the device works. it would be a very serious precedent to put on appendix 1, which concerns species that are truly endangered, a species that has instead - thank god - millions of living beings. we are waiting for the new figures and i hope that we will be able to regulate ourselves on them because, as a famous american journalist says, it is true that figures do not lie, but with figures one lies, and indeed one lies! we are used to hearing the most disparate figures, especially in our environmental theme: there's gonna be some numbers that lie and some numbers that don't lie. bluefin tuna is not endangered, but bluefin tuna needs to be regulated. let's remember that there are entire communities living on this activity that is old, 11,200 years old at least, so much so that unesco in some cases considers it an activity to be preserved and enhanced.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support - and have also tabled amendments to this effect - the inclusion of bluefin tuna in annex ii. i don't feel like a criminal at all in supporting this. i am very much in agreement with those who, before me, starting with gardini, have argued otherwise. to equate tigers, polar bears, elephants and tuna is profoundly wrong. the fao would never presume to say one thing or to argue a different case for these other endangered species. having a different idea of how to deal with the tuna issue does not mean that we do not recognise that biodiversity is a value that must be defended. the spirit of the note and the resolution is entirely agreeable. however, at a time when some elements seem to be going backwards in relation to the assessment of the biological mass of tuna in the sea, to accelerate towards inclusion in annex i probably means not to take into account the side effects of this choice, which are heavy and sometimes even irreversible for many sectors of our economy. the same applies in some respects to the question of coral and its inclusion in annex ii. there is data there that does not suggest that the deep-sea coral, the one that goes deeper than 150-200 meters, is affected by the measure.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think i can say with sufficient conviction that the speech by the chairman of the committee on fisheries, mrs fraga estévez, has given some technical information which we either pretend not to know, or probably do not know. you said what the fao recommendation is, what the truth is, what you are asking for. everything else becomes instrumental and becomes a conditioning against this parliament and many members. i would not like us to forget that politics must be sovereign and that we should keep outside the door of this parliament the urges and pressures of economic groups who probably want something else. we know that the price of tuna has fallen in the last two years, we know that we have imposed restrictions, so there is already a 40% reduction. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, i would recommend to the commission and the commissioner - also in view of the fact that the new commission has a foreign minister who is certainly more qualified than in the past - to ensure that agreements are reached with the other non-european states so that the ban on tuna fishing does not apply only to europe and that efforts are made to ease the situation for non-european countries as well. we are clearly supporting mr fraga estevez's amendment and all that follows from it with regard to annex ii.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the controversial scientific data we have heard from many quarters and in the face of a stock level which is certainly not yet such that, even in the case of the worst data, it would be obligatory to include it in annex i, i do not think that such a restrictive measure, even with the limitations which would obviously be placed on certain areas of fishing activity, is the best solution. i also believe that, in the light of the efforts made in recent years by tuna fisheries to reduce fishing, it is necessary to continue in this direction by keeping tuna in annex ii and avoiding forward leaks which would be extremely dangerous for certain areas and for tuna fisheries.
acting president of the council. - first of all, i would like to thank all the honourable members for their speeches, which i have found very useful in helping to shape the common position that the european union will have to take to the next conference of the parties to the cites convention. the vast majority have highlighted the value of the cites convention in helping to conserve endangered species. as i said at the beginning, following the commission's proposal to the council, the council will be able to outline its position on cites with regard to the various items on the agenda of the meeting concerning the main threatened species. here, for example, we have spoken of tigers, we have spoken of elephants - mrs bearder - we have spoken of the polar bear - mrs liotard - but a large majority of the interventions have been on the case of bluefin tuna. and on this question we have heard different opinions based on different arguments. the council is of course aware of the results of the last meeting of the scientific committee of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) in october 2009 and also of the recommendations of the independent panel of experts of the fao in december 2009. in this respect, the council is fully aware of the implications of the proposal to include tuna in the cites appendices, not only for the conservation of the species but also for the survival of traditional fishing methods in some fisheries which have proved to be sustainable for the species. the council will therefore carefully assess all the elements before adopting its position. in conclusion, i would like to reiterate to the honourable members the gratitude of the council presidency for its contributions and interventions at this decisive stage in shaping the position of the european union at the next cites conference, and i will be happy to convey to the council the content of its interventions and its keen interest in the issues to be discussed in doha. i would also like to convey to the honourable members the commitment of the spanish presidency to ensure the conservation and sustainable management of endangered species. and we are aware that the council has the full support of this parliament.
member of the commission. − mr president, my first general remark is to say that i really appreciate the contribution of all the speakers concerning all the objectives ahead of discussions at the conference. i can assure you that the commission will be in favour of sustainable trade for the benefits of both biodiversity and the communities which need to live in harmony with the species concerned. now, a few more specific comments in relation to your remarks; first of all, as i explained, the overall position of the commission on bluefin tuna will be adopted very soon. this is an important matter because it relates mainly to the catches by the eu fishing fleets. it has been felt that it is more appropriate that, instead of the outgoing commission, the new commission takes a clear position on this issue because the new commission will be in charge of defending or promoting the eu position at the conference. i am really confident that this proposal will ensure a sustainable future for both this species and the associated fishing industry. this will need to balance short-term and long-term perspectives on this issue. but, on more specific items and the questions raised by the distinguished members of parliament, on the question of support which could potentially be given to the fishermen affected, i think that we should stress that the commission would be ready to assess the possibility of providing such support to the maximum possible extent, but we also need to remember that budgetary reallocations have been decided for many years and that we would also need to assess the financial consequences while we have a rigid financial budget for the perspective 2007-2013. there is one specific issue concerning the proposal to include bluefin tuna in appendix ii and i think it is important to note that there are very specific provisions in cites which would apply in the case of an appendix ii. there would be a lot of legal and technical discussions on what such a listing in appendix ii would actually mean. the practical impact of such a listing would be uncertain. that is why we need to think of what the practical consequences of putting bluefin tuna in appendix ii would be. regarding mrs bearder’s question on elephants, there are procedural weaknesses in the motions of tanzania and zambia but in our legal assessment these flaws cannot be sufficient ground to procedurally reject these motions ex ante. finally i will comment on mr kelly’s question. is the commission happy with scientific evidence on many issues? i think it is difficult for the commission to question scientific evidence because it would mean that the commission has better scientific or research capacity than the research institutes, which is not the case. that is why it is sometimes very difficult to take a position on the scientific evidence.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate we are having today on the 15th meeting of the conference of the parties to cites next march is of particular importance for the rational use of wild flora and fauna. the draft resolution seems to be unbalanced in the direction of a ban on the use of many resources. i am referring in particular to the proposal to include mediterranean red coral in annex ii to cites. i would remind you that the scientific community considers that there is no risk of extinction for the species of the corallidae family, given the abundance of this species in all the waters in which they live. the inclusion of the coral in annex ii therefore seems excessive and not supported by scientific data. the trade in red coral is an important source of income in large areas of the mediterranean and inclusion in cites would have significant repercussions on the economies of many countries, including italy, with social alarm points and consequent loss of jobs. for these reasons we oppose the inclusion of this family of species in appendix ii of cites. i also ask the european commission to reconsider its position, which seems to be based more on extreme environmentalist thinking than on sound scientific assessment.
in writing. europe has always been attentive to the problems of over-exploitation of wildlife and illegal trade in wildlife. we believe, however, that the cites convention will have to base its decisions on the results and scientific data provided by the relevant international bodies. two points are particularly sensitive: the proposal to include corallium sgg. and paracorallium sgg. in annex ii and the request to include bluefin tuna in annex i. as regards coral, we feel it is appropriate to reiterate our objection in the light of the negative opinion of the fao scientific assessment panel of mid-december 2009, which found that there was no evidence of species decline to support inclusion in annex ii. this would seriously affect the competitiveness of the artisanal coral processing sector, which is an important economic and employment voice in some italian areas (torre del greco, alghero, trapani in particular). as regards tuna, there are countries such as france and italy which are more interested in fishing for bluefin tuna and therefore in protecting the species for its sustainable use. we can support this proposal, but we would ask that this inclusion be subject to a postponement of the decision for 12 to 18 months and to the provision of compensation for the sector.
member of the commission. − mr president, firstly i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work. i much appreciate it. secondly, two comments on the substance of the debate. i heard some concerns about the potential side effects in the form of additional immigration. in fact, this proposal is not about incentives to immigration; it is about how to deal with the current state. i think it should be perceived, as mrs göncz mentioned, as a disincentive to immigration. the second comment on the substance. the commission will of course look forward to the revision of operational programmes: this will depend on the initiative of national and regional authorities but we will look very warmly at such changes. finally, let me welcome this debate which sets out parliament’s commitment to the inclusion of marginalised communities. it is a further step in support of an open and inclusive europe 2020. i think we will count on the national and regional authorities to make good use of these new facilities.
the following joint statements by the council and the commission are included: the 2009 progress report on croatia [2009/2767(rsp) ] the 2009 progress report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia [2009/2768(rsp) ] the 2009 progress report on turkey [2009/2769(rsp) ]
acting president of the council. - mr president, i would like to begin by reiterating the firm commitment of the presidency of the council to the process of enlargement of the european union. our work in this regard will be carried out in accordance with the renewed consensus on enlargement adopted by the european council in december 2006 and also in accordance with the council conclusions of 8 december 2009, which have been endorsed by the european council. as the house's resolution we are about to debate points out, this semester is going to be crucial for the negotiation process with croatia. the negotiations have entered their final phase, although considerable work remains to be done to bring them to a successful conclusion. we will have to deal with difficult chapters such as those relating to competition, fisheries, the judiciary and fundamental rights, the environment and foreign, security and defence policy. in addition, we will have to temporarily close chapters that have financial implications. so there is a lot of work to be done. the new commissioner, štefan füle - my former colleague as minister for europe, whom i welcome and congratulate on his election - will have a lot of work to do on the dossier 'enlargement': in the case of croatia, because already next week we intend to hold a first intergovernmental conference at the level of alternates to open the chapter on fisheries and the chapter on the environment, two very significant chapters which require, as you can imagine, a lot of work, a lot of work, a lot of dedication. let me remind you of the conclusions on croatia which the council adopted in december. the house knows them, but i would like to make a few points. the council congratulated croatia on the important efforts made during the previous year and on the progress made overall. the council also referred in its conclusions to a set of financial measures for the accession negotiations with croatia and noted that the negotiations were entering their final phase. furthermore, the council stressed that building on the progress already made, croatia should also make further progress in various areas, including the judicial system, public administration and the fight against corruption and organised crime, as well as ensuring the rights of persons belonging to minorities, including the return of refugees and the prosecution of war crimes, in order to be able to show a convincing balance sheet in those areas. the council also took note of croatia's cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia, although it stressed the need to deepen such cooperation. we believe we could achieve new goals along those lines. we have also naturally welcomed the signing of the arbitration agreement on the border dispute between croatia and slovenia. that agreement was reached in stockholm on 4 november last year and ratified by the croatian parliament on 20 november. the council encouraged croatia to take advantage of these developments to resolve all outstanding bilateral issues, especially the contentious border issues. the council also welcomed the setting up in december, just over a month ago, of a working party to draft the draft accession treaty for croatia. the implementation of the revised accession partnership will ultimately be very important in preparing for this further integration into the european union. we have, as i said, a lot of work ahead of us. since a joint debate has been set up on croatia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and turkey, i would like to say that the western balkans are high on the european union's list of priorities. the stability of the region is of vital importance to us and in 2010 we will witness several milestones in the transition process of the region: progress on the accession applications submitted, as already mentioned, a new impetus to the network of stabilisation and association agreements, the strengthening of regional cooperation and progress on visa liberalisation. we know that the prospect of accession to the union - what we call the european perspective for the western balkans - is the main driving force behind the stability and reform process in these countries. it is true that this is a prospect, a real prospect, but it does not constitute an automatic right. in order to focus on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, i will begin by outlining the general situation in the country and refer to the european parliament resolution, for which mr zoran thaler was rapporteur. the resolution very well presents a dynamic situation, full of possibilities for the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the parliament's resolution highlights many of the challenges facing the country: the increased level of non-compliance with the law, corruption, the follow-up of the recommendations of the organization for security and cooperation in europe and the office for democratic institutions and human rights, the allocation of funds for effective decentralisation, access to justice, the increased participation of women in political life, support for civil society organisations, persistently high unemployment, environmental problems, etc. the resolution stresses the importance of the timetable for the opening of negotiations and also the shared desire to reach as soon as possible an acceptable solution to the name of the country, which, as you know, is a contentious issue that exists at the moment with greece. i would like to point out some issues that are related to some of the events that you address in your resolution, such as the municipal elections in march and april - which the osce considered to be in line with the commitments made - and the sixth stabilisation and association council in july 2009, which we concluded and from which it emerges that the country was actually fulfilling the obligations under that agreement. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has continued to work on its relations with the european union, and the european commission considered that it had indeed made progress and recommended that accession negotiations be opened. in its conclusions of december last year, the council acknowledged the progress to which the commission referred and agreed to return to the matter in the coming months. the european parliament, as you know, has taken note of these conclusions of the council of 8 december 2009. on 19 december, visa liberalization under the schengen system for citizens of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia entered into force. the issue of inter-ethnic relations, the differences of opinion among the slavs of macedonia regarding the country's antiquity and the differences of opinion on how to deal with neighbouring countries should also be mentioned as specific points concerning the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. all these issues are reflected in various sections of this parliament's resolution. in conclusion, i would like to say that some issues deserve careful attention, beyond the mere adoption and implementation of laws, and that some issues are specific to the ohrid framework agreement, others are purely national and others are related to the neighbouring countries of macedonia. the european institutions believe that the future of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia lies in its membership of the european union and that these aspirations must be expressed in full national integration in accordance with the ohrid agreement. this is what the european union thinks and what it continues to think. finally, i would like to take this opportunity to also provide further information on the state of play of the negotiations with turkey and to present the plans of the spanish presidency on this important issue of enlargement. it is important - i want to say this from the outset - that we continue to maintain the negotiating process with turkey, that we keep the course of that process. building on the work of previous presidencies, we aim to convince everyone of the need to make as much progress as we can in this process. the negotiations have entered a phase - we might say - which is somewhat more complicated or somewhat more problematic, requiring turkey to redouble its efforts to meet the conditions laid down. we have some technically difficult negotiating chapters ahead of us. but it is important - and i also want to say this from the outset - that turkey makes progress on the reforms related to the european union. at the moment, as the new commissioner knows very well, the technical work is concentrated on four negotiating chapters: public procurement; competition; food safety; veterinary and phytosanitary policy; and social policy and employment. the energy chapter is also important - and we must emphasise this - and it has become particularly important since the nabucco agreement was signed. at its last plenary session, parliament discussed turkey and in particular the process of democratization in the country. there is a contrast between, on the one hand, this process of democratic initiative, as the turkish government has called it, and, on the other hand, some worrying decisions such as the recent decision of the constitutional court, to which we have also referred here, which touches on a very sensitive issue such as the ban on a political party. therefore, despite the progress made, efforts need to be made to ensure that turkey fully complies with the copenhagen criteria in a number of areas, for example freedom of expression, freedom of the press, freedom of worship in fact and in law for all religious communities, respect for property rights, trade union rights and the rights of persons belonging to minorities, civilian oversight of the military, the rights of women and children and measures to combat discrimination and promote gender equality. this is also strongly reflected in both the parliament's resolution and the council's conclusions of 8 december last year. i would also like to refer to other elements of the council's conclusions. for example, the council stressed the need for turkey to make a clear commitment to maintaining good neighbourly relations and to settle disputes peacefully in accordance with the un charter, if necessary by resorting to the international court of justice. in this context, the union urged turkey - as we have done in the bilateral meetings with turkey - to avoid any kind of threat, source of friction or action that could harm good neighbourly relations, the peaceful settlement of disputes. the council also regretted that turkey had not yet complied with the additional protocol to the association agreement, the so-called ankara protocol, and that it had not yet made sufficient progress towards the normalisation of its relations with the republic of cyprus. in the first half of 2010, we will be able to take stock of the development of our relations in the association council and the association committee with turkey. it will be a good opportunity to examine important issues such as the political criteria, progress in the adaptation of domestic law and the implementation of the acquis. a series of meetings of political dialogue at ministerial level, between political directors, is also planned, which will give us the opportunity to study our relations in their wider international context. in this connection, the council also expects turkey to support the negotiations under way in the united nations on the issue i referred to earlier, namely the cyprus problem, in accordance with the relevant un security council resolutions and in line with the principles on which the union is founded. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i look forward to your views and will respond to any comments or questions you may have.
i now give the floor to commissioner štefan füle, and i also wish him well on his first day of work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the swedish and spanish presidencies have made turkey's accession to the european union a priority, as if it were irreversible. in our view, turkey's accession is neither realistic nor appropriate for a number of reasons. firstly, because turkey is not geographically located in europe; secondly, because turkey is an increasingly islamized state and ankara is in fact a leading member of the world's largest pan-islamic organization, the oic; thirdly, because religious minorities are persecuted and have an inferior status. fourthly, because turkey continues to officially deny the genocide of one and a half million armenian christians and occupies cyprus militarily and politically, in violation of international law. we must also remember that with turkey in the european union we would have countries like iraq, iran and syria on our borders. finally, we must also remember that in 2030, turkey, with 90 million inhabitants, will be the most populous country in the european union. this means that it would have the largest number of meps and the largest share of votes in the european council, so the european balance would certainly be destabilized.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the conclusion of the negotiations with croatia by the end of the year is a possible objective and the swoboda report balancedly emphasizes the progress and the steps still to be taken. now, it is the justice sector that still needs to be reformed. it is not enough to complete the necessary system reforms, pass new laws and cooperate, as necessary, with the criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia. i insist on the need to create a genuine legal culture and mentality in line with european standards. the independence of the judiciary, which is a central issue, and the training, recruitment and career of judges, i.e. the absence of various types of governmental influence on judges, are becoming crucial. i call on the commission to consider the need for decisive action in this respect during the final phase of the negotiations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we want to encourage croatia's accession and that is why we are asking the croatian authorities to return to their rightful owners the assets nationalized to italian citizens at the end of the second world war and still owned by state or municipal institutions, also in the light of european law. we want to encourage the accession of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and that is why we ask that the consensus method, which is part of the history of the european union, be respected and that the european institutions cordially accompany the reflection of all the member states on the reasons which still hinder this process. we want to speak with turkey in the language of truth. the oomen-ruijten report has this merit: the commission's proposal is not to deny the difficulties of the process and does not set out any prejudices, but it does certainly take the copenhagen criteria as a reference point. it is therefore right that parliament should strongly denounce the violations of human rights and the democratic deficit. but it is not in this house that we should look for those who make the path of this application for membership almost paradoxical. they are to be found among the officials of the many governments who promise at every official meeting what they have an interest in denying in the hallways. on the other hand, it is useful to insist on strengthening the instruments of the privileged partnership, on the basis of the oomen-ruijten report, in anticipation of a development which is linked not to prejudice but to the full and responsible acceptance of the contents of the acquis communautaire.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, croatia's accession to the european union is a further step towards consolidating the european identity, which is capable of expressing the common values of the new europe without obscuring, but rather integrating, the specific features of its many souls. the republic of croatia has made considerable efforts to meet the required parameters, in particular in tackling organised crime through new anti-mafia measures, but needs to make further efforts, especially in the judicial sector, before the 2010 negotiations can be concluded. further progress can be made by the institutions of the republic of croatia in order to comply with the provisions of the first protocol to the european convention on human rights, signed in paris in 1952, by considering the return to the rightful owners of nationalised assets.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we acknowledge the efforts made by croatia in recent years to meet the requirements for accession to the european union. i agree with the report presented by mr lópez this morning. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. i am referring to the failure to provide economic and moral compensation for the damage suffered and to return confiscated property to italians who, as a result of the second world war, had to leave those lands as exiles. we call on croatia, with a view to its accession to the european union, to accelerate the process of bringing this sad and still unresolved affair to a happy and constructive end. we call on croatia to ensure that there is an affirmative response to the rights of those people who have been waiting for this for so long, also in the light of european law.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report certainly contains some interesting points for those of you, like myself and many of you, who are opposed to turkey's membership of the eu. the report reflects turkey's sometimes serious shortcomings in the basic criteria for eu membership. some of the passages in the resolution proposed by the afet committee are also quite rigid. these documents do not preclude the possibility of turkey's future accession; however, i welcome the remarks that this parliament intends to make about the 'non-progress' made by turkey. those who, like me, are opposed to ankara's eu membership find their traditional objections on the subject confirmed: the european union is also calling on the turkish authorities to take all necessary measures to ensure that the turkish authorities are able to comply with the obligations imposed on them by the treaty of rome. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome. this is in addition to the usual concerns about turkey's cultural and geographical differences from europe and the problems that would arise from the entry of a country directly bordering it with more than 80 million inhabitants: the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in turkey, and i hope that the council will be able to take a decision on this matter in due course.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for details of the vote: see minutes)
all right, thank you for your courtesy. i was doing it for completeness of information, but you can read them, so i'll skip the reading.
thank you for this valuable suggestion, which we will pass on to the relevant offices.
the amendment is therefore withdrawn. before the vote on amendment no 10
the services do not agree with the view you have expressed, but i would like to ask the chairman of the committee responsible what his opinion is on this.
we have passed amendment no 7 and the paragraph is deleted. so sometimes the presidency is right.
we can't set a precedent, the votes can't be repeated. besides, there's a 130-vote gap between us. it is not a minor deviation, i do not think that the results of the vote can be reversed and changed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wholeheartedly support the report by mr van nistelrooij, to whom i extend my congratulations. in the past, through a number of initiatives and questions, i have asked for the possibility of using european union funds to support social housing for those most needy and marginalised groups, which are also those categories that local authorities include in income-based rankings, as happens in the large capitals and large urban areas. housing, and especially housing for the most vulnerable sections of society, has become a real emergency for many large european cities. i therefore believe that mr van nistelrooij's report is moving in the right direction, but i also believe that a further increase in resources for the emergency solution of social housing problems is desirable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the dramatic earthquake in haiti has not only shaken the soil of this unfortunate country violently, but also the consciences of all of us. the interest and closeness of the international community to the people of haiti has been an important example of solidarity and humanity. the european union has reacted swiftly to this tragedy, making immediate and long-term financial commitments of over eur 300 million, to which must be added the more than eur 92 million already provided by individual member states. in this connection, i would like to emphasize the readiness and effectiveness of the italian aid, including the dispatch of the aircraft carrier cavour which, in addition to providing all its advanced medical facilities, also transported 135 tonnes of material from the world food programme and 77 tonnes of material from the italian red cross to haiti. i would like to emphasize that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 200,000 dead, 250,000 seriously injured, 3 million people directly affected by the earthquake, plus 2 million people in need of food aid: these are huge numbers for the massive catastrophe that has struck haiti. the european union has done its part and is still doing its part, it is the most important international donor. however, i must point out that the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy did not go to the scene immediately to coordinate our aid. we would have preferred that you had gone off to do your work and that you had taken care of helping others in haiti. italian foreign minister frattini, among other things, proposed that the debt of haiti, one of the poorest countries in the world, be cancelled. now i ask parliament to support this proposal, the union to act as interpreter and then to ask all the creditor countries to join italy's proposal to cancel haiti's debts.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to speak because, as has already been mentioned, the italian embassy and other embassies were attacked yesterday in tehran. this helps us to bear in mind that this parliament and the union should also formally express solidarity with our country and with all the countries involved in this attack. however, since we should also be giving clear signals, i am officially asking that europe not be present tomorrow at the celebrations for the anniversary of the islamic republic's revolution and that this be a clear signal to the iranian authorities. i say this on a special day for us italians, because this is the day of remembrance. that is why i wear this flag like many italians and i hope that you, mr president, will also wear this tricolor flag, to remember the many italians who were intimidated and forced to leave their lands on this day. in this regard, i would like to make clear our solidarity with those who are fighting for democracy and freedom in iran at this time. i would therefore ask that our authorities not attend the celebrations for the anniversary of the islamic republic.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the attack on european embassies, particularly the italian embassy, and the threats against the italian prime minister are a very serious matter and deserve condemnation. we are concerned about the systematic repression of all opposition within iran, and we are concerned about the iranian nuclear programme. all this has been possible partly because of the wait-and-see attitude and the overly tolerant attitude of the west. today, after the failure of president obama's outstretched hand, the west has no choice but to threaten and immediately implement a system of sanctions that are effective and severe, although selective so as not to affect the population. i know that russia and china would be opposed to sanctions, but the european union must make every effort to persuade these powers to accept sanctions, which are the alternative to the armed option.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wish to state that i abstained from voting on the resolution on iran for two main reasons. the first reason is specific. the resolution makes it clear that the elections which gave ahmadinejad the victory were fraudulent. this is absolutely unproven, and, moreover, recently a man like president lula said that he found these things ridiculous. the second reason is that iran is under the threat of continuous military intervention by the us and israel, and we don't even remember that. it seems to me that a balanced resolution, in favour of peace in that region, should not have this tone of anticipatory legitimization of the impending war.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to give the vote on amendment no 12 the reason for which it is that italy of values is opposed to the production of nuclear energy. we have already taken a stand on this sensitive issue in the election campaign, by including it in our programme. finally, we are pursuing this objective in concrete terms through a significant act which we affirmed at our recent congress in italy. we have launched a great battle to promote a popular referendum against a law of the italian government that subverts the majority of the votes that italians have already cast in a popular referendum. we do it because we want a clean, renewable energy future, powered by solar and wind. we are doing this mainly because, as i said earlier, we want the will of the italian people to be affirmed and not that of a tiny minority sitting in the italian parliament today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today we have tried to strengthen the role of women in our community. this resolution has many points which i obviously agree with and i must say that many of them are absorbing my personal political activity, especially when we talk about access to the world of work and the protection of women from all forms of violence. however, i cannot help but point out that this resolution has also become a soup in which a skilled cook has tried to cook - indeed, cooked - very different ingredients. let me put it this way: we have talked about violence, protection against violence, and then we have brought together contraception, termination of pregnancy and abortion, two subjects which are in fact very different and which require very different reflections. abortion, for example, calls attention to and reflects on the sacredness of life. this choice did not allow me to vote in favour of the resolution and i had to abstain. i believe that this strategy of obtaining political and even media consensus is not in the real interest of european women.
in writing. - the idea behind the european commission's proposal was one of the first to be put forward. we have analysed and partially improved the commission document in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. i agree with the rapporteur in particular on the clarifications that have been made with regard to the optional application of the reversal mechanism and the reporting obligations. member states should be free to choose between the obligation to report on a specific occasion for each operation or the obligation to report globally for all operations. the proposal under consideration strengthens the security of ets allowances against fraudsters, while reducing administrative formalities for honest companies. finally, i believe that parliament should be fully informed of the results of such a temporary application of the reversal of accounts mechanism.
in writing. - i must point out that the report does not contain a general indication of the recipients of any measures: the concept of 'marginalised communities' is referred to, but the content of an expression which, even sociologically, can take on multiple definitions is not specified. the only references - and this is already in the commission proposal - are to the roma communities. the fact that the report asks that the reference to roma should not be made to interventions for other socially marginalised groups does not guarantee that the part of the erdf to be allocated to housing policies can benefit other 'socially marginalised' persons on the basis of situations of particular economic, employment and family difficulties. finally, according to the report presented to parliament, the european commission should be given the power to determine the criteria according to which part of the erdf can be allocated to interventions in favour of marginalised communities: that provision seems to leave a wide margin of discretion to the commission alone in determining those criteria; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. pending the future parliamentary follow-up to the report, and since this is the first reading, i shall abstain.
in writing. - i shall set out here the reasons which led me to vote in favour of the following amendments. first of all, i thought it necessary to extend the geographical scope of the proposal to the whole of the eu-27, since the problems we are trying to solve with this regulation are found throughout the european union. therefore, the limitation to the new eu-12 member states alone is not understood. secondly, i thought it right to reinstate the previous version of the final part of article 7 ('the commission shall adopt' instead of 'may adopt') so that the commission can continue to carry out the function originally assigned to it by the regulation in the field of evaluation and setting criteria for intervention, in order to ensure the effectiveness and added value of the policy, also in view of its cost.
in writing. − the current global economic crisis presents the european union with a difficult challenge, requiring rapid, flexible and effective responses in its policies. with its total financial resources of €347 billion for the 2007-13 programming period, european cohesion policy is the largest source of investment in the real economy, helping europe and its regions to recover from the crisis and to regain confidence and optimism. i agree with the need to deal with the issue of housing for marginalised communities in the context of an amendment to the erdf regulation. since the existing provisions cannot be applied to marginalised communities, the proposed amendment fills a gap in the legislation in order to deal more appropriately with the problem of the precarious living conditions of these populations. this measure respects the principle of subsidiarity by extending the possibilities available to member states to provide support for housing interventions concerning marginalised communities in the way they deem most appropriate, while maintaining the integrated approach as a minimum condition for the implementation of the intervention.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate mr van nistelrooij on the excellent text he has proposed, which has been further improved by the numerous amendments tabled in the regi committee, which have made it possible to extend this measure to all the member states of the european union. today's text will make it possible to make the dreams of many people who want to have a house a reality. i am sure that by doing so we will show the people how parliament is able to find solutions to the challenges posed by the opening of frontiers and the free movement of persons. that is why i shall be voting in favour of the report.
in writing. - the importance of the proposal lies in the serious consequences that tax fraud in the eu (estimated at over 2% of gdp) has on member states' budgets, on the principle of fiscal justice, which is weakened as a result, and on the functioning of markets, due to a distortion of competition. the commission's proposal is an important step towards more effective instruments of cooperation in the fight against fraud and tax evasion at european level. the proposed directive represents a quantity and quality leap forward: the commission's proposal is quantitative in that it lays down new obligations, and qualitative in that it extends and clarifies existing obligations. the inclusion of all types of direct and indirect taxes, except vat and excise duties, by introducing automatic exchange of information between tax administrations instead of exchange on request is agreed. the proposal will provide more effective instruments for cooperation against tax fraud and evasion by creating a reliable, user-friendly and effective system. this is a contribution to the proper fiscal integration which is essential to the european project and a further step towards a real harmonization of fiscal policies.
in writing. − the current system for the recovery of claims arising from duties, taxes and other measures is characterised by slowness, disparity and lack of coordination and transparency. action at community level is therefore necessary to strengthen and improve recovery assistance between member states. the proposal provides for uniform titles for the adoption of enforcement or precautionary measures, in order to avoid problems of recognition and translation of instruments issued by other member states, and a standard form for the notification of documents relating to claims in the territory of another member state. the introduction of a uniform standard form for the notification of acts and decisions relating to claims will solve the problems of recognition and translation of instruments issued by another member state. this instrument will be essential for the development of intra-community trade and for the strengthening of the internal market.
in writing. the earthquake that devastated haiti on 12 january, killing 200,000 people and injuring some 250,000, calls on the member states of the european union and the international community as a whole to make a joint and concrete commitment to the reconstruction of the country. this coordination proved immediately effective and led to the allocation of substantial sums by the european commission and individual member states. i believe it is essential to make a joint effort to ensure that reconstruction is sustainable in the medium and long term and that the haitian people are the main beneficiaries of this commitment. i join the appeal of international humanitarian organizations to ensure that the huge number of children who have been orphaned by the earthquake do not become victims of human traffickers. i therefore believe that a plan is needed to oversee this emergency by ensuring that the primary needs of the most vulnerable sections of the population are at the top of the priorities of europe and the united states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the recent earthquake in haiti. in particular, i agree with paragraphs 4, 8 and 9, especially where it is called for the eu to focus on assisting reconstruction efforts and improving the humanitarian situation, with particular attention to vulnerable groups such as women and children, and on providing shelter, medical facilities, logistical assistance and food; calls on all member states to prepare to respond to further requests for assistance from the united nations; welcomes the commission's preliminary commitment to allocate eur 30 million in humanitarian aid; welcomes the decision by the g7 countries to cancel the international debt of haiti and further calls on the international monetary fund to completely cancel the outstanding debt of the country; and it is emphasized that any kind of post-seismic emergency assistance must be provided in the form of grants and not loans that generate debt.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on iran, particularly after the recent attacks on the italian and french embassies yesterday. the european union must take a clear stand against the regime in tehran. the iranian authorities bear a responsibility for fomenting this dangerous climate of intolerance and intimidation towards certain countries of the european union. the embassy raid was perpetrated by those who want to clip the wings of democracy and are against freedom. i hope that the european institutions will take a clear position as soon as possible condemning what has happened and considering diplomatic measures to be taken against iran.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motions for resolutions on the outcome of the copenhagen summit on climate change, albeit with some reservations. in copenhagen, where i was present as a delegate of the european parliament, a non-legally binding agreement was reached. this is not only an inadequate response to the global fight against climate change, but also leaves unresolved the problem of distortion of international competition to the detriment of european companies, which, unlike their main competitors in other countries such as the united states and china, already have to meet ambitious emission reduction targets. i believe that the european union must work towards an effective strategy for the forthcoming international meetings, a strategy aimed at promoting ecotechnologies, energy efficiency and renewable sources and creating a truly effective global system for combating climate change that does not further distort international competition.
in writing. - a policy of good governance must be implemented both within and outside the european union, including to combat unfair tax competition, particularly with countries that are tax havens. transparency and exchange of information in tax matters are the basis for fair competition and the fair distribution of the tax burden. in addition, good tax governance is an important prerequisite for preserving the integrity of financial markets. the proposals on administrative cooperation and mutual assistance in recovery which we are adopting in this plenary session are in that direction. at international level, one of the tools the eu can use to promote good tax governance in third countries is to negotiate tax fraud agreements with those countries that include an information exchange clause. the declarations by the five countries with which the eu has a savings agreement (monaco, switzerland, liechtenstein, andorra and san marino) are an important step towards ending a situation of total disequilibrium. however, such declarations must be followed by the conclusion of legally binding agreements. the eu must also play a leading role in this area, setting a good example and following the g20's lead.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of good fiscal governance, although always of great importance, has become even more important since the great economic and financial crisis that struck our continent two years ago. in recent years, international and european summits have discussed this issue, particularly when dealing with the fight against tax evasion and tax havens. there is certainly evidence of commitment and willingness on the part of the commission, but there is no doubt that a serious policy must be put in place to prevent tax evasion by shell companies that circumvent the tax rules by simple clicks on the internet. i am convinced that the principle of good governance, based on the principle of transparency and exchange of information, can be the basis for pursuing the european union's priority objective of combating tax havens, tax evasion and illicit capital flight. the european union must also speak a single language at international level and strive to improve the oecd rules and to achieve automatic exchange of information instead of exchange on request. that is why i shall be voting in favour of the report.
in writing. − i voted against the resolution on equality between women and men in the european union (2009), although i agree with much of its content, because you cannot claim equality for one category of people and deny it to another category of human beings. i refer to paragraph 38, which seeks to guarantee women's rights by ensuring easy access to abortion. the destruction of the smallest and most defenseless, namely the unborn, cannot be considered as an instrument for the affirmation of the dignity and freedom of women. a "conspiracy against life" is in progress, using tried and tested methods of deception. we have to expose them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we cannot speak of the tragedy of abortion, which deserves the attention of politicians and not only moralists, without also recognizing the rights of the unborn child, at least by calling for adequate education in respect for life and organizing forms of solidarity in favour of difficult or unwanted pregnancies so that they can reach their natural end.
in writing. - i fully share the spirit of the resolution, which has the merit of starting from the premise that the debate on demographic change is linked to the debate on the measures needed to deal with the impact of the economic and financial crisis on the labour market. the resolution calls for the adoption of a new law on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against pollution, and calls for the adoption of a new law on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. in view of this, i cannot but express my absolute opposition, already expressed during the vote, to the persistent desire to promote the 'abortion society' by encouraging access to free abortion. the assumption that women must obtain an easier access to abortion in order to regain their right to sexual freedom is not only contrary to secular morality in general but also contradicts the premises of recital z which puts at the heart of european action the promotion of a 'higher birth rate to meet future needs'. i remain committed to promoting a responsible sexual culture.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the complexity of the report under consideration today was already apparent during the work of the femm committee, where a risky majority of three votes and a large number of members absent had allowed the text to be adopted. i believe that there has been good legislation on the protection of women since 1975. so rather than trying to create new directives, it is necessary to ensure that the existing rules are fully applied by governments. that is why, although i do not want to vote against the report, which certainly has some positive aspects, i have chosen to dissociate myself from certain aspects in order to underline my disappointment with certain elements, especially those concerning abortion, on which our catholic nature is not prepared to compromise.
in writing. − today, 10 february 2010, the european parliament was asked to give its opinion on the eu's strategic objectives for the 14th meeting of the conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites), to be held in doha, qatar, from 13 to 25 march 2010. the european parliament's role is purely advisory, but i thought it important to sign and vote in favour of the amendment which sought to remove the inclusion of red coral from annex ii to the convention, which would have resulted in a significant restriction of fisheries and trade, as it is an endangered species. the inclusion of corallium in annex ii seems to be too cautious and not adequately supported by scientific data. i am also deeply concerned about the economic and social repercussions that such inclusion could have on the economy of our country and, in particular, of certain regions in the south, and i voted in favour of this amendment. i thought it would be better to give our companies in this sector more time to convert their production and thus remain competitive on the market.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support the motion for a resolution on the progress made by the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. i fully agree with the resolution's approach, which welcomes the commission's recommendation and supports the opening of negotiations with fyrom, in the belief that this is a fundamental step for the development of that country and for the stability of a region which is crucial to the interests of the european union.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have decided to abstain from the final vote on the resolution on turkey's progress in 2009. although the text gives a critical assessment of the country's ability to assume the obligations of membership of the european union, my abstention is an even more cautious assessment. the current situation in turkey with regard to democracy, the rule of law and the protection of human and minority rights is still far from european standards. i am referring in particular to the turkish electoral system which does not respect pluralism, the legislation on the dissolution of political parties, the interference of military power in political life, the kurdish problem and the continuing restrictions on the rights of minorities, religious freedom and freedom of the press. these are the values and principles which we regard as indispensable and which form the basis of the process of european integration. it is true that the accession of this country to the union could bring important economic benefits, especially for our companies, but i believe that compliance with the copenhagen criteria is a priority condition which the union must strictly monitor.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, terrorism is constantly evolving and we should be behind it, behind the changes. there are individual terrorists, hard to pinpoint, and we're here to debate privacy rights, whether or not to adopt more technologically advanced measures. i think we should rather be concerned about certain judgments of the luxembourg court of justice which open up the west's united front against terrorism, call it by its proper name 'islamic terrorism' and pay close attention to judicial good faith. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the new treaty on european union, and i am sure that the european parliament will be a very active participant in the negotiations on the new treaty on european union. it's not a body scanner. they're all over the place. they could be on the plane we're taking tomorrow morning. if europe continues to over-guarantee, it will open a very dangerous door to the internal security of our countries, and that should worry the commissioner, who, on the other hand, i found to be general and cowardly in not calling islamic terrorism and the danger it represents by its name.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must admit that when we talk about the fight against terrorism, when we only discuss intelligence and technology, i always get the impression that we insist on looking at the matter in an inadequate way, as if we wanted to treat a disease by focusing only on its symptoms and not on its causes. is it not time to tackle the problem of terrorism by looking at the heart of the matter, rather than limiting ourselves to its external phenomenology? to tackle the heart of the problem means, for example, to become aware that terrorism is also the direct manifestation of the inability or unwillingness of ethnic groups to integrate into the european cultural fabric. i ask myself and i ask this parliament: do we want to talk about terrorism? then may this parliament have the courage to engage politically in a debate on the degree of integration of muslims in europe and their willingness to share western values, rights and freedoms. i have put a question to the committee on the whole veil to this effect, in order to encourage this house to discuss the matter openly. there seems to be no will to address the subject. i ask myself and i ask you, ladies and gentlemen of all political groups: the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the community.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the security of our societies is a non-negotiable value which we must pursue with determination. it is clear that more effective controls at security checkpoints must be accompanied by a higher level of cooperation between intelligence systems and the use of technologically advanced tools. it is right that the european ministers did not get carried away by emotion and focused on how to implement this coordination. some governments have legitimately begun testing body scanners on the most sensitive areas of the body. however, in order to avoid the creation of a european area with non-uniform standards, it is necessary to obtain the results of the studies initiated as soon as possible. the rights of the individual must be defended, of course, but without demagoguery. we talk about health, reaffirm the precautionary principle, ask for clarification on the possible harm from exposure to radio waves or x-rays, but we do not cry out about the violation of privacy for faded images of faceless bodies that are immediately deleted, as if gps, mobile phones or cameras had not already been part of our lives for many years. until the powerhouses of international terrorism are destroyed, we must learn to live with these sacrifices, giving citizens firm answers and effective solutions, with only one limit: the physical integrity of the person.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what i wanted to say was essentially this: there is no problem as serious as the right to privacy when this right is not adequately protected. the reason why we tabled the resolution on the stockholm programme a few weeks ago in this very house is that we have sought to strike a balance between different needs: the problems of individual freedom on the one hand, the problems of privacy on the other, and the problems of security on the other. if we are concerned today with the european union taking on this common problem, because the member states have moved forward, it is because perhaps a major challenge, which is the protection of the crossings, and not only that, may not be concretely secured. i therefore ask the spanish presidency and the commissioners to take on a cooperation based on enhanced cooperation and an information civilization.
author of the book. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, new actors have come to the fore on the new world stage, some of them even considered to be developing countries until recently. this must change the approach, including the cultural approach, to free trade and the practical ways in which the relationship between the european union and its major competitors is being developed. this report now also has some magic words, which have not yet entered the vocabulary of the european commission. these words are reciprocity, the european interest, the fight against dumping and the fight against tariff barriers. the free trade agreement with korea, which had raised the concerns of two commissioners for internal market and employment and of some governments, must be seen in this context. what are the real advantages of this bilateral agreement when 50% of the trade between the european union and korea is in the automobile sector, where the disproportion between our 700 000 korean cars exported to the eu and our 27 000 cars exported to the eu is quite clear? what is the point of giving indirect aid of some €1,600 for every korean car sold in europe, when some european governments are struggling to encourage car sales to boost consumption? how can we fail to take account of the serious concerns of the textile and electronics industries? we are not satisfied, commissioner, to hear ourselves repeated for the umpteenth time, as commissioner ashton did before her, that there are benefits for our chemical, pharmaceutical or agri-food industries which are scandalously small compared with the consequences for the textile, electronics and especially the car industry, or for financial services. but is europe today, in this crisis, still choosing the financial option for its development? we all greeted with hope the new europe born in lisbon. but this europe cannot, especially today, fail to take responsibility for the european interest in the world. the us is making up false papers to defend boeing against airbus and the argentine government is threatening to expropriate telecom. the agreement with korea will make legitimate and proper triangulation with china, which has been illegal. this is the scenario in which our big companies operate, and behind it are hundreds of thousands of workers, of families who see their future vanishing, not because they produce poor quality services or goods, but because ill-defined interests take precedence over the most obvious and objective ones. we trust in your sensitivity, mr commissioner, also in order to avoid hasty ratification, accompanied perhaps by unacceptable decisions on provisional application of the commercial part of the agreement pending ratification, and in any case unacceptable before the regulation on the bilateral safeguard clause is clearly defined, the adoption of which is subject to the ordinary legislative procedure, which is to be considered as preliminary to any assessment as to whether or not ...
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this is a classic issue on which the european institutions are playing for their reputations with european industrialists, workers and consumers. a free trade agreement is always good news, a stepping stone to stability and prosperity on the planet, especially when it represents the european union's first success in bilateral trade policy after years of disappointment. but perhaps that is why there was a certain haste in signing the agreement, there was almost a kind of temptation on the part of the commission to close the negotiations at any cost. for us liberal democrats, the duty drawback, although legitimate for the wto, although already practiced, is in fact equivalent to an export subsidy, and the relaxation of the rule of origin is a step backwards for transparency. these two pearls will soon set a precedent for our other trading partners. we know that the commission has negotiated hard, but as a korean proverb says, 'even the best of us make mistakes'. we have often heard that the commission is losing its ability to protect the legitimate interests of producers, workers and consumers, and certainly something has gone wrong in the communication with the social partners in a negotiation that has sometimes been criticised for a lack of transparency. every european citizen expects political sensitivity from all of us, the commission and parliament. the european industry is in a bad way and it is useless for some member states to grant subsidies to the automobile industry, which i personally am very much against. on the other hand, this agreement risks introducing subsidies to korean exports. we all know that these agreements are complex and that there are also many benefits that we appreciate: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the products it produces, such as the abolition of korean customs duties, the recognition of european certificates, new possibilities for european services and the protection of typical geographical indications. that is why i do not wish to see what is happening in the united states, where the agreement with korea has been awaiting ratification for years and where some people are even trying to reopen the automobile chapter. the commission's request is this: the text of the agreement is to be part of an overall package consisting of three acts, namely the free trade agreement to be ratified, the implementing measures, in particular on duty drawback, and the regulation on the safeguard clause. i would also add, possibly, the availability of access to the global adjustment fund for areas which may be affected by this agreement. we are asking for all the papers to be put together, mr commissioner, and we believe that, in the climate of codecision that has been established with lisbon, there is no way of reaching an interim agreement which would be opposed by us because we want to work together.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask the commissioner a supplementary question. we understand that we do not have a clear picture of the procedure for possible ratification by the national parliaments, but what majority will have to vote for this agreement in the council? is it a qualified majority or is it a consensus majority? that is something i have not understood and i think it would be important to take this element of the legal basis into account. i must add that i was surprised by the tenor of this debate. i think there are many voices of concern and i therefore renew my call on the commission to work together. commissioner, we are sure you will do a great job but, to use another korean proverb, "ask for the way even when you know it".
member of the commission. − mr president, i wish to thank parliament for its work on this issue. in particular i want to thank the rapporteur, mrs lynne, for her excellent work in drawing up the motion for a resolution on the commission’s proposal and for her efforts over a number of years to improve health and safety at work for workers in the hospital and healthcare sector. i am aware that this is a long-standing concern of this house. parliament’s resolution of 24 february 2005 on promoting health and safety in the workplace called for a revision of directive 2000/54/ec on biological agents at work. again, in july 2006, parliament adopted a resolution calling on the commission to submit a proposal for a directive amending that directive. in response to the european parliament, the commission initiated a two-stage consultation of the european social partners, in accordance with the treaty provisions. in response to this consultation two european social partner organisations acting in the hospital and healthcare sector, the european hospital and healthcare employers’ association and the european federation of public service unions, negotiated with success a framework agreement in july 2009. as you know, the commission proposal aims to implement this agreement. we all know that injuries caused by needles and other sharp instruments are one of the most common and serious risks to healthcare workers in europe, in particular in certain departments and activities, such as emergencies, intensive care and surgical operations. i am more than happy that your resolution recognises that the commission’s proposal incorporates the major points in parliament’s resolution of 6 july 2006. it was indeed the commission’s wish to have these points in the agreement. i also agree with you that the entry into force of this agreement will represent an important contribution to the protection of workers active in the hospital and healthcare sector. with this agreement, and hopefully the forthcoming adoption by the council of the proposed directive, workers in the hospital and healthcare sector will benefit from an integrated approach, establishing policies in risk assessment, risk prevention, training, information, awareness-raising and so on. such measures, which are also minimum requirements, are not only much welcomed but above all absolutely necessary. let me just conclude by thanking you once again for supporting the commission’s proposal, which i hope the council will adopt very shortly.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said, injuries caused by needles and other sharp instruments are among the most common risks faced by healthcare workers in europe and therefore represent a serious problem for both health and society in general. the purpose of this commission proposal is to enable the council to implement the framework agreement concluded by the association of employers in the hospital sector and the european federation of public service unions. the main objective of the agreement is to ensure greater protection for workers against the risk of injury caused by all sharp or sharp-edged objects used in medicine. this agreement therefore represents an important step towards improving safety in the hospital sector. as we all agree, the consequences of cut injuries can be very serious and cause the spread of diseases such as viral hepatitis and aids. in this context, i would like to stress the need for an integrated and at the same time realistic approach to this problem. in this sense, i think it is appropriate that the administrative, financial and legal constraints resulting from the agreement should not be excessive and therefore such as to prejudice the development of small and mediumsized enterprises operating in the health sector, which otherwise might have serious difficulties in adapting to the terms of the agreement, the agreement. the possibility for the member states - i would add that it is desirable and also expected - to adopt provisions and measures more effective than those contained in the agreement for the protection of workers seems equally acceptable. finally, the commission is asked to monitor the application of this agreement and to inform parliament regularly, which has often dealt with this matter, in order to ensure proper monitoring of the agreement and to assess in detail the need for any future amendments.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too will be bringing my own experience. i have been working in hospitals for 15 years and for a time i worked as a health worker in a critical area such as the operating room. i myself have been pricked by potentially infected needles and tools. so, as mrs rapti said, i still remember the anxiety i felt while waiting for the results of the tests, but above all how i lived through the so-called 'window' period between potential contamination and the hypothetical manifestation of the disease. it is precisely because of this experience that i believe it is necessary to vote for this resolution which finally gives legal force to the agreement in terms of safety and protection, establishing minimum standards for all health workers. the health sector represents 10% of the workforce in the european union and accurately estimates 1,200,000 cases of accidental punctures per year, with a consequent gradual demotivation and many times abandonment of the profession of health worker. the world health organisation also estimates that 2.5% of cases can be converted to hiv and 40% of cases to the different forms of hepatitis b and hepatitis c. the serious and numerous risks that are too often taken on a daily basis are the reason why the health profession is considered to be unattractive, and has suffered from a shortage of staff in recent years. in addition, as has already been mentioned here, there is a considerable cost to individual health facilities for dealing with the stress situations to which the health worker is subjected during the various monitoring periods, the diagnostic examinations which take place as a matter of routine for at least six months after the accidents, and the costs associated with the professional who has unfortunately contracted the disease. in conclusion, in order not to underestimate the problem, when the risk of an accident is avoidable or reducible, it is necessary and obligatory to take all available preventive measures. in particular, it is the duty of the employer to provide them and the duty of the employee to comply with them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to start with the judgment of the european court of justice, because the possibility for a member state to prohibit private operators from offering online gambling draws attention to the need to standardize a market which is highly profitable but equally risky for consumers. so in the absence of community harmonisation on gambling, each country is free to choose its own level of protection. the boundary of the application of such a restriction is often not identifiable. the commission has launched a series of infringement procedures against certain countries, including italy, for violating the principle of the free movement of services, but the european court of justice has upheld the restrictive decision of portugal. in this context, the european institutions have the key task of bringing the gambling sector to a fully harmonised regulatory process between member states at european level. it is therefore necessary to go beyond individual economic interests and to ensure a significant protection of consumers, especially minors who are the main victims of crime and fraud.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, congratulations to you and well found. the boom in the online gambling market in recent years has been witnessed by all, capturing the economic and media attention. this is a phenomenon involving new social groups and is characterized by multiple consumption. technology facilitates access to it and enables it to involve an increasing number of consumers, often young, who are normally more familiar with computer tools and the internet. the dream of changing one's life through play often leads to disastrous consequences, and many families are dragged into a tunnel often with no way out. furthermore, the serious harm caused by the lack of sociality and interaction in online gaming cannot be underestimated. the solitude and substantial invisibility of the gambler qualify for an addiction that is generally not acceptable. it is a vice that still appears to be largely submerged today. in my previous experience as a general manager in a public health firm, i started a clinic specializing in pathological gambling. the proposed intervention model has proved successful because the response action integrates the therapeutic aspect with that of prevention, research and rehabilitation. we need to act with a common position and ensure that all departments have sound governance. it wasn't like that. i am referring to drug abuse, alcohol abuse, tobacco abuse, food addiction and the internet. i regret that the question which i and 42 other members put forward has not yet been brought to the attention of parliament in plenary because of the left's refusal. i wonder how much the commission really cares about people who have a confirmed drug problem or other confirmed addiction, and how relevant the fight against drug trafficking is in the commission's programme.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are aware of the differences between the different legal frameworks in the individual countries and we also know that at present different interpretations of european and national case law lead to a high level of infringement and litigation within the member states. the lack of a european union policy is not further sustainable in light of the challenges inherent in the cross-border nature of interactive gambling services. moreover, the rapid spread of the internet and electronic commerce in recent years has led to an increase in the supply of online gambling and the consequent emergence of cross-border issues that remain unresolved. i am therefore convinced that the european institutions must respond to common challenges, such as the protection of consumers, in particular minors, and the prevention of crime and fraud, but also those relating to the fight against the illegal and unauthorised provision of services, which national governments alone cannot meet. the commission is therefore responding to parliament's requests and working towards a regulatory framework at european level. do it with the necessary determination. i am not questioning your good will, commissioner, and i would therefore say that the consultation is fine, and the green paper is fine, but only if it serves to identify the right legislative framework and is not an end in itself. the old commission has on many occasions overdrawn its green papers and white papers without taking a decision. i think you realize, commissioner, that we need decisions and not just words.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to wish commissioner barnier a good job, because we need it. gambling, by its very nature, has psychological implications for individual gamblers and affects the cultural and behavioural aspects of individual societies. given the risks involved, the recent ruling by the european court of justice that each member state is free to set its own rules governing online betting and gambling is wise. the judgment in the portuguese league confirms that the european union is governed by 27 different rules, depending on how much each member state has considered itself to legislate. this condition is contrary to the application of the rule of the internal market tout court, to the gaming sector and to harmonisation at european level. a supply that is not strictly regulated would have a negative impact on the needs and behaviour of individual citizens of the european union, with particular reference to the most vulnerable groups and the young. we ask you, commissioner barnier, to work towards a regulatory framework that clarifies the competences and sets out common principles and a code of conduct for operators to protect all european citizens who have a passion for online gambling.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the formal expression of solidarity with greece was in fact a mere attempt to impose a rigid policy of austerity on the member states of the european union. van rompuy, at the closing press conference, made it clear that the idea was to establish a kind of dictatorship of the european union, turning the council into an imperial junta, with ever greater powers than the member states. before the summit, the independent revealed, he had sent a letter to the heads of government, writing in one of the annexes that the members of the council are responsible for economic strategy within their government and that they should do the same at eu level. whether it is called policy coordination or economic governance, only the council is able to formulate and support a european strategy. he added: the european council is very ambitious, we want to be in charge and we want to be the guiding force, albeit in consultation, of course. that's why i've proposed that the council meet every month. these are the imperial designs of the architects of the european union, also expressed in a project that is circulating in the corridors of the commission, which calls for 80% of the debt of the eu member countries to become the debt of the european union. the campaign for an economic supergovernment which has been launched in recent days risks turning not only greece, but all 27 member states of the european union, into protectorates.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president-in-office, you may not be as well known as mr farage claims, but i know that your ideals are deeply rooted in european tradition and culture and i respect and admire you for that. i would like to make a few comments on the report by mr de gucht, and i would like to thank him for his work. the view you have of your role seems to me to be that of a midfielder, a midfielder whose task is to bring order to the game of a team which, after the change in the rules required by the lisbon treaty, may find it more difficult to score goals, that is, to achieve its objectives. in the light of this example, i believe that parliament should take more risks than the other players, be like a fantasy player who is constantly inventing the game, taking inspiration from the new rules to increase the offensive capacity of the team and to put our hypothetical centre forward, that is the barroso commission, in a position to score. what will happen if we do not follow this approach, which i deeply share? it will happen that we will close ourselves off in defense and make a self-defence against the interests of our fellow citizens. for this reason, mr president, i ask you to support the new role of parliament and to see it not as an obstacle but as an opportunity. we are all together called to a historic circumstance, to a historic role, to a historic task, and i am sure that you are the right man to lead us.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in defining the medium-term strategy, the union will have to take account of the effects of the economic crisis which is currently affecting this part of the world, and not only that, but also of course the limitations which led to the modest results of the previous strategy, the lisbon strategy of 2000. the crisis gives us clear indications as to development and full employment if we are to set - as i believe it is necessary - this objective for our action. firstly, we need instruments to regulate and supervise the financial system and the banks so that the negative conditions that are severely punishing us are not re-created. the commission will also be able to provide the necessary financial support to the member states in the event of a crisis. but for these large investments to be possible, europe must have eurobonds and a system of rewards and penalties for the achievement of economic objectives. these are the main limits of lisbon i. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we also need a coordinated industrial policy for the supply chains to defend the historical manufacturing production structure of our size in the world. finally, we must re-modulate and relaunch the social dialogue as an element of cohesion and of containing the dangers of longterm unemployment with which we are faced.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i cannot but express my regret, also on behalf of the whole committee on agriculture, which i have the honour of chairing, at the absence of any reference to the agri-food chain in the 20-20 strategy. it is absurd that the strategy for the next ten years proposed by the commission does not include the central theme of the challenge of food security, growth and employment in rural areas. madam president, how can we think of a green and sustainable europe if we do not take into account that 45% of the european territory is managed by farmers? how can we not take into account the almost 30 million people who work in this territory? these are workers who must be protected and protected. before we can deal with the new jobs, we must defend the existing jobs. i would remind you that agriculture provides a number of essential services, such as food, biodiversity, landscape and the environment, which are functions carried out for the social and economic vitality of rural areas. the spanish presidency also emphasized the need for a strong common agricultural policy. i am therefore concerned about this very serious omission which i hope parliament can correct.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the 13th session of the united nations human rights council is an extremely important occasion. i would just like to mention a few cases that are not dealt with very often. speaking of prisons, but not for terrorists, i would like to remind you of the really inhumane conditions in prisons in rwanda and libya, where the death penalty is practiced in the detention of people who are absolutely innocent. i would like to mention again the question of the saharawi, which has been unresolved for a long time, and i would also like to mention the rights of climate refugees who are being driven out of their country by dramatic climate change. these are all things that must be kept in mind, precisely because they are also the basis of our coexistence.
in writing. i have many reservations about the credibility of the unhrc as a whole. i hope, however, that the presence of a delegation from droi at the next council meeting will enable the community institutions to raise the urgent question of christianophobia. we know that we do not have to wrap the clock of history to encounter cases of serious anti-christian persecution: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we also know that the subject is delicate and that if it has not been adequately addressed so far, this has happened not only because of the diplomatic balance that the participants must maintain in bodies such as the unhrc, but also because of the anti-christian policy pursued by countries, if not enemies of christianity, at least traditionally tolerant of acts of christianophobia. let the eu and this parliament, therefore, on an occasion illuminated by the lights of world politics, promote in the international community a new approach to the question of christianophobia, so that it is universally and without delay recognized as a serious violation of human rights and freedom of religion, and so that the community takes action to stop its worrying spread.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, public opinion is divided on the goldstone report. in particular, the israeli armed forces are accused of deliberately causing the death of numerous civilians during urban guerrilla operations. this is a very serious accusation, which seems to ignore some undeniable facts, such as the distribution of leaflets throughout the war zone to explain that homes containing weapons and ammunition could have been hit and the telephone and radio warnings, also on hamas frequencies, before attacking structures of buildings identified as weapons depots. the 'knock the roof' technique was also used: if, after all these warnings, the air force still reported buildings full of people, small explosive charges would be launched, mostly noisy, which would be used to quickly evacuate the structures. the israeli army introduced warning signs for civilians in gaza that no one else had put into practice before. those who use all these precautions can in no way be accused of deliberately targeting civilians. yesterday, on the same day, i met two great political figures: in the morning, israeli foreign minister lieberman and in the evening, the president of the palestinian national authority, abu mazen. in both cases the meeting was calm and relaxed, in the hope that the arms would finally be abandoned and a path of peace would be found after struggles that have lasted for too many decades. europe, as both governments have also called for, must maintain its balanced role as an impartial judge, free from ideological positions which could only exacerbate the feelings of one or the other.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the un human rights council has approved the goldstone report by a very large majority. however, the names of too many of the countries that make up this large majority provoke our reflections and leave us puzzled about its composition: china, saudi arabia, pakistan, and so on. we are puzzled to read that it is these countries, which are not exactly exemplary in terms of human rights, that are calling on israel and hamas to carry out in-depth investigations into human rights violations during operation cast lead. we do not consider ourselves to be taking sides with either of the two contenders, preferring to maintain a balance of judgement, supporting the need to guarantee israel's security within its borders and the right to exist of the jewish and palestinian states, and opposing our opposition to the use of violence, terrorism and war in resolving conflicts. our christian culture and our conception of man and history lead us to wish that all violations committed should be punished in a firm and balanced way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the goldstone report is destined to remain a milestone whose possible future ramifications are perhaps not yet fully appreciated, including as regards the assertion of international legality to which we liberal democrats are particularly attached. we welcome the report's call for compensation for civilian victims of an unequal conflict and for referral to the international criminal court if the parties do not conduct genuinely independent and impartial investigations, as was requested last january by a number of israeli human rights associations. these are truths which may even be harmful to a state like israel, which seems to have ceased to be inspired by the extraordinary humanism of the great jewish culture of which we are all children. the truth is that violence remains a failed policy. hezbollah is stronger after the attack on lebanon and hamas is stronger in gaza today. anyone who has been to gaza after the conflict has witnessed the enormity of the suffering of the population. we as europe must say today, especially in gaza: let's just be human!
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the swedish presidency's report on beijing makes no reference to the situation of non-western women in europe. so the problem doesn't exist or you don't want to see it. yet today the position of women of islamic culture in the world, including europe, is dramatic. if western feminism is in an identity crisis, it is because the fashion for multiculturalism has led so many of us to avoid addressing these issues, which are at the heart of the struggles of so many muslim women in europe and around the world. let's leave multiculturalism and political correctness where we found them and take up the new challenge: the european parliament must now, and not later, stand by the muslim women of europe in their struggle for emancipation, and by doing so also help those movements in the world which are raising their voices against islamic fundamentalism. are we prepared to fight for women in europe to be free from the symbol of spiritual death that is the full veil? are we ready to discuss the deteriorating conditions of women in muslim communities in europe? if the spirit of debate on these issues prevails over silence, then we will also have the strength to support the cause of women's liberation in the world against the oppression of islamism.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, beijing + 15 is facing a financial, economic and employment crisis this year which is weighing on the living and working conditions of millions of women in europe and the world, but which can be an opportunity to review development models, the organisation of the labour market and social policies. the european union must put at the heart of the reinforcement of the beijing + 15 objectives, for women, policies for access to environmental resources and credit, including through microfinance, reconciliation between family and working life, including the adoption of the directive on parental leave, training policies and incentives for companies that employ young people and women, as well as the fight against human trafficking with a new directive, which we hope will be based on the resolution adopted at the last session in strasbourg. we must above all direct development cooperation support towards the empowerment of women in the poorest countries, and in particular in africa, building with women the prospect of a euro-african alliance. it would be nice - i am addressing the commissioner and the president - if the european delegation in new york were to promote and collect signatures for the campaign to award the nobel peace prize to african women, symbolically represented by the leaders of associations active in the countries most affected by conflict and poverty.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 23 february in villasanta, lombardy, an exceptional oil spill from a tank in an abandoned refinery caused a gigantic pollution of the nearby lambro river. the scale of the ecological disaster, with the release of thousands of cubic metres of oil, is undermining the ecosystem of the lambro river and the fauna, and is threatening to spread, despite the measures taken, to the po river, which runs through the entire po valley and empties into the adriatic sea. the exceptional nature and urgency of the situation, which have already led to a request for a declaration of a state of emergency by the lombardy region, are such that they require - and i am asking for a signal through the presidency - also the intervention of the european union, both from the point of view of the coordination of environmental initiatives in the areas at risk, of which the po valley area is certainly part, and in view of the scale of the financial resources that will be necessary for the absolutely necessary restoration of the environmental situation of this vast area affected by an ecological accident of epochal nature.
mr president, if instead of all these discussions we had had the opportunity to speak, perhaps we could have also done our constituents a service, since it is ten o'clock at night and we all knew we had to speak. here each of us comes to represent the demands of our constituents. a minute is already very little time and to cut the list is, in my opinion, also a little arrogant.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the excellent work done by mr valean reasonably supports some of the points i share. first, the need to ensure an optimum level of security for the data and information required by the proposal, i.e. those data which are sensitive to economic operators. secondly, the need to provide for the possibility of aggregating data also at a wider regional level, as the national level is sometimes not significant. thirdly, the notification should have a practical purpose, it should complement the analysis of the development of the european gas system. the commission should therefore be obliged to discuss its analysis with the member states and with the operators in the sectors concerned, a commitment which the commissioner has made to us here. we must also avoid duplication of work by operators, national regulatory authorities and member states in drawing up national plans to safeguard security of supply, with particular reference to gas infrastructure, and ensure that operators do not suffer any penalty if they decide to change their investment plans. i would like to conclude by drawing attention to article 1 (2) of the proposal, which deals with the time limits for notification. it should be borne in mind that many projects do not go beyond the design phase. the best result could therefore be achieved if notification were only for projects which have obtained the necessary authorisations and permits or for which a final investment decision has been taken.
in writing. i congratulate the european commission for submitting to the council the amendment of the regulation on investment projects in energy infrastructure in the european union. the report adds to the content of the report for two reasons. the first is the transparent information on the security and confidentiality of sensitive data which the commission must receive periodically for the effective management of energy policy. the report is updated in line with the lisbon treaty, which gives particular attention to energy policy, strengthening and coordinating its approaches and the investments needed in this sector. if the copenhagen summit did not satisfy the world's political leaders, it means that the lines to be followed need a change of strategy. the european parliament is following the matter with particular attention in order to guide energy investments in the construction, transport and storage of energy products, to satisfy the manufacturing and distribution industries and to protect the health of the consumer. the second reason is that, as the eu is short of energy products and as domestic demand grows daily alongside imports, eu energy policy must focus on diversification, security of supply and energy efficiency.
in writing. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a regulation on investment projects in energy infrastructure in the european community is an important instrument for promoting an effective energy policy at european level. i share the idea behind this proposal, namely the need to define a coherent and comprehensive framework for the development of investment in energy infrastructure in the community which will enable the commission to monitor the state of development of planned investment projects in the energy sector. monitoring is certainly essential to ensure the transparency of the policy followed in support of projects, but on condition that the administrative burden on small and mediumsized enterprises, the engine of the european union's economy, is minimised. i welcome the fact that a compromise has been reached to ensure that market operators' data is received and processed by the commission with the necessary confidentiality. the implementation of investment projects in energy infrastructure is essential to the implementation of a liberalized and therefore competitive energy market. to this end, i ask the commission to provide periodically, on the basis of the data collected, an analysis of the structural developments in the energy sector, with the aim of identifying the needs for improvement of the market and the obstacles to its optimal functioning.
acting president of the council. - mr president, the presidency also welcomes this debate in the european parliament, as it constitutes an important contribution to the broad consultation process of the green paper, and the european parliament's input should therefore be seriously considered by the commission when it subsequently draws up its legislative proposals. the council will also study all the parliament's views in detail, with a view to examining and subsequently adopting the legislative proposals under the codecision procedure. the green paper of april 2009 addresses several structural weaknesses of the common fisheries policy: overcapacity, unclear objectives, short-term decision-making, lack of sectoral accountability and poor overall enforcement. the green paper also outlined possible ways of tackling these structural weaknesses and addressed such important issues as differentiated regimes for industrial fleets and small and artisanal coastal fleets, discards, relative stability, individual transferable quotas, greater market orientation, the integration of the common fisheries policy into the general context of the maritime policy, public financing and the external dimension of the common fisheries policy. the member states, both individually and jointly in the council, are studying all aspects of the issues raised in detail. the first phase of consultations was completed in december 2009 and the commission has received 1 700 proposals and held over 125 meetings and seminars so far. the second phase, which will begin on 1 september 2010, will focus on analysing the contributions received and discussing the main ideas. in january the commission held seminars on the main aspects of the reform and on management based on fishing rights. a seminar on small-scale fishing is being held today. the impact assessment will be in the month of march. the european fisheries fund and the future financial perspective in april, the external dimension in may and discards and selectivity in june. the conference, organised jointly by the presidency and the commission, will be held in a coruña on 2 and 3 may and will deal with three key elements of the reform, namely governance, stock management and the differentiation between large-scale and small-scale fishing. on 4 and 5 may we will have the ministerial meeting in vigo where the ministers will discuss the outcome of the conference, and it is possible that the june council will include an informal discussion on a working document on the options for amendment as an item on the agenda. in the third phase, as i said earlier, which begins in the second half of 2010, the commission will present a white paper and then four legislative proposals: the basic regulation, the new common fisheries policy, technical measures and the new financing regulation. the aim is for the cfp to enter into force, with the new reform, on 1 january 2013. the council has not yet adopted a position; the council will only take formal decisions on the basis of the legislative proposals it receives from the commission in 2011, and will do so in accordance with the rules of codecision.
member of the commission. − mr president, since this is my first speech as a commissioner to the members of this house, i would like to thank you for giving me the opportunity to address the european parliament. i feel very honoured to be here with you and discuss the reform of the common fisheries policy, which is a core issue for the whole sector. i want to congratulate the rapporteur mrs neves on her hard work in bringing together different positions into a consistent document. i could not agree more that we need radical reform to turn around the structural failings of our policy. as you all know, the last reform in 2002 was not sufficiently successful. now we have to tackle all the past deficits, to achieve better results from an environmental, social and economic aspect. the public consultation has shown clearly that there is broad support for this reform. of course i will not be able to respond today to all issues raised in your report, which is due to be voted on. however, i bear in mind your compromise amendments on sustainability, over-capacity, small-scale fisheries, horizontal decentralisation, phasing-out of discards, new fisheries agreements and deployment in the fishing sector. i am very thankful for your constructive input. i would like to highlight two specific issues: first, public funding. i believe we have to focus our subsidies to achieve better results by steering them towards the objectives of our policy. for example, instead of supporting the building of new vessels we should support innovation for selectivity and greening and help producer organisations respond to the future challenges. secondly, i share your views on the social dimension: we want a fishery which creates attractive and safe jobs. today i am looking forward to hearing your proposals during this debate. let me also inform you of our next steps. we will prepare a summary report on last year’s consultation, which will help us prepare the proposals for the new policy. we are organising workshops to discuss specific topics with stakeholders, the institutions and the member states. together with the spanish presidency, a broad conference of cfp reform will be held in may. i know, and it has already been mentioned, that there is a technical workshop taking place in the commission at this very moment, with participants from all over europe. i am sorry that you cannot attend this workshop. this workshop was organised a long time ago. i will try if at all possible to make sure that meetings do not clash in future. on the basis of this input, in late 2010 we will start to develop our proposals to be adopted in the commission in spring 2011. this large consultation process will culminate in a very fruitful discussion with you. you, as co-legislators, will then have a major role to play in shaping the new policy together with the council. i am really looking forward to cooperating with you.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the council for its words and i thank the new commissioner, who is being baptized in this house today, and i wish her all the best for the work we are about to do. i think what we are doing is important and i hope that this green paper, which we are starting to discuss today and will be voting on later, will not end up as it did in 2002. but today the european parliament is in a different situation. we have codecision and the treaty of lisbon, so i think we should all make good use of them to achieve the objectives. the key points were outlined by our rapporteur, mrs patrão neves, to whom the ppe group would like to express our thanks for the work she has done, for the summary she has managed to produce and for all that she has managed to sum up. i only wanted to intervene and take the opportunity to go into the fisheries issue, but going beyond the normal green paper and the white paper which was announced for june, and addressing the needs that exist in the seas of europe, particularly in the mediterranean. today we need to give up the rules we have imposed on our economy and our fishermen for some years now. however, often and willingly, and very often, the coastal countries, perhaps those bordering europe, are not obliged to comply with these rules, and we find ourselves in the paradox of our fishermen being forced to do all this while others can do whatever they want. today the european commission has a different, stronger role, a stronger foreign minister and parliament. the hope is that in the green paper, and before the white paper, we can work with third countries, those who are not part of the union, in order to be able to arrive at shared and common rules so that those who are subject to the rule do not feel betrayed and neglected by the union and do not see the union as an enemy rather than as a friend.
in writing. we first of all congratulate the rapporteur, maria do céu patrão neves, on her excellent work so far and on the positive outcome of the vote. we hope that the green paper, which will be submitted to the committee shortly, will be the prelude to the white paper being presented to the house shortly. europe has always been attentive to the fisheries sector. we believe, however, that it is essential to provide for greater investment in scientific research, especially in the fisheries sector, also within the next framework programme. we also consider it essential to increase the culture of the rules by making the quota system more flexible and by giving greater responsibility for control and stockholding. we also want to see more intensive partnerships with third countries to combat illegal fishing and more cooperation with the mediterranean countries to regulate fishing more effectively in a sea such as the mediterranean, which has always been the cradle of different civilizations and cultures. finally, we agree with the provisions of article 23 on modernisation, especially of craft vessels, although we ask for more details on this. we want to see more clarity in articles 62 to 63 on the professional qualifications of operators in the sector, especially in relation to small-scale fishing, which would otherwise be the most penalized in the event of stricter fleet management rules.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the recent railway disasters in europe - belgium today, italy yesterday - require us to reflect on the failures of the system and on the appropriate measures to improve safety performance. for example, it is astonishing to think that the european union developed a dedicated rail traffic monitoring system rtms as early as 2000 and yet, ten years later, very few member states have adopted the system. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of rail transport is not compromised. it is true that the adaptation of railway infrastructure and the rolling stock of the european system involves technical and economic assessments and tasks which must necessarily be carried out by the companies in the sector. however, it must be noted that community legislation does not fix a date for the adaptation of national lines to the rtms system and leaves it to the member states to determine the equipment requirements for vehicles in circulation. it would be better to impose and set dates, to encourage investment and even to take it away from those who do not fit in with infrastructure projects or rolling stock purchases that do not use these systems. the other reasoning is that we must not delay interoperability and the completion of the internal market. today we have an independent national security agency, which should check the adoption of the appropriate security systems. it is important to emphasize that obtaining safety certificates is a precondition for obtaining a licence. i also stress that, with a view to a liberalised common railway market, the powers of the european railway agency in the field of controls must be strengthened at central level.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, following the recent train accident in brussels, which many colleagues have mentioned, the spotlight has once again been on railway safety. directive 2004/49/ec on safety on the railway generally provides that railway undertakings and infrastructure managers are to share responsibility for safety of operation, each for the part of their responsibility. in the specific case of the accident in belgium, it appears to have been a human error. we'll wait for the investigation, of course. however, it appears that the train did not have an automatic braking system. is the commission aware of which networks and how many trains within the member states do not have this safety device? and does it intend to put forward a legislative proposal to equip the entire union network with such a system?
the tragic train accident in belgium draws public attention to rail safety. in addition to safety in signalling technology, the safety of rolling stock must also be improved. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. unfortunately, the eu has done little to date to oblige freight transport operators to maintain their rolling stock at an acceptable safety standard. it is also important to bear in mind that dangerous goods are also transported by rail and that in the event of an accident, this can have devastating consequences. in view of this, i call for higher safety standards in rail transport.
in writing. - we approve this regulation today, given the greater weight that the treaty of lisbon gives to parliament in defining energy policies. it is certainly a good idea to pursue interinstitutional cooperation aimed at planning in an organic, rational and proactive way the eu's interventions in the design and construction of energy infrastructures: i am thinking of the possible benefits for ten-e planning and the launching of pilot projects for co2 storage, which are the future of energy. however, the disclosure requirements imposed by the regulation could lead to excessive political interference in the economy and undermine competition through the disclosure of project news. it is therefore important to ensure that data is collected and managed in a way that protects the confidentiality and business of companies. analysis of these data will certainly make it possible to better target investments. but the analysis must be accompanied by concrete financial measures to support these works and to encourage private investment in the sector. the marguerite fund for infrastructure, energy and climate must be strengthened. the initiative is valid and necessary, but it is necessary to fill this fund with eu resources already available in the budget and to link it to forms of financing guaranteed by the eib and/or other financial institutions, so as to be able to participate adequately in the equity of the individual ppps being implemented.
in writing. − the proposal is affected by the emergency situation in gas supplies which emerged in january 2009, when the commission identified the inadequacy of the union's energy infrastructure. the european commission's intention, which parliament fully shared, was to have a constantly updated picture of the energy infrastructure system. there is a great deal of uncertainty about the implementation of investment projects, which has been exacerbated by the economic and financial crisis. i believe that action is needed to remedy the lack of consistent data and information on investment projects, without which it is impossible to analyse the expected evolution of the union's infrastructure and to carry out adequate monitoring from a cross-sectoral perspective. furthermore, regulation 736/96, which this proposal repeals, is no longer applied consistently and is inadequate to the recent developments in the energy sector. the commission has therefore strengthened the existing system by this proposal, considerably improving the comparability of information and at the same time reducing the administrative burden. finally, i would like to emphasise that i voted against amendment no 81 (which was intended to include the whole nuclear energy chain among the infrastructures covered by the regulation), since there are already provisions governing these matters in the euratom treaty.
in writing. - the compromise resolution before our assembly unfortunately contains passages which do not allow me to express my support. the unhrc is a political body which is experiencing "extreme politicization", as the text of the resolution acknowledges. however, i believe that we could have done much more, especially since we are dealing with a sensitive subject which is dear to many of us, namely human rights. i read in the text an inappropriate weakness - perhaps not for the politics of diplomacy, certainly for the politics of values - a lack of determination in criticizing the well-known aspects that make the unhrc a very controversial body. we could have been more decisive, speaking out more forcefully against iran's candidacy in the next council elections. there is no specific reference to the worthless composition of a council with too many members who have little to teach on human rights, and who obviously have even less credentials to judge and indict anyone. i therefore vote for the following text: i hope that parliament will stop playing the role of diplomat, which is not its job, and will take up the fight for values and human rights with greater courage.
in writing. − first presented at the committee on budgets meeting on 25 january 2010, the maňka report has three critical points which led me to abstain. firstly, the sudden discovery, after the signing of the 2010 budget in december 2009, that the 20% ceiling for expenditure in 'heading 5' had been exceeded. the concerted shifting of the problem from december to january, the desire not to make the budgetary weight of the lisbon treaty apparent, and the question put hastily, without any room for any request for a more efficient use of the resources currently available, have given rise to a real distortion of the facts. secondly, i do not agree with the decision to use the reserves for housing policy to cover the new liquidity needs, a controversial issue which must be tackled in the coming months, with the certainty that the necessary financial resources will be available. finally, i think that the sum of eur 1 500 in terms of monthly allocations for members' assistants is in any case inadequate, since the minimum threshold for the recruitment of a new level i assistant is eur 1 649.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, whatever the assessments of individual members or political groups may be, i think it is appropriate that we should be able to express our views on such an important subject. we often discuss issues that are far from us, but that are relevant: this is a matter of concern to us, to our electorate, and i think it should be put on the agenda.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that the commission and the spanish presidency are very much speeding up the negotiations with certain countries in central and south america to conclude association agreements before the european union-latin america summit in may. i would now like to draw parliament's attention, also as vice-president of eurolat, to the fact that there is a risk of speeding up the negotiations with some of these countries, while neglecting important points concerning human rights and their respect in the various regions. for example, in colombia, the murders of trade unionists continue almost daily; in honduras, with whom we are also negotiating an agreement, there is still a government that is the result simply of a military coup last year; and in guatemala there are similar problems, not in terms of human rights but in terms of attention to certain aspects of the agreements that are being neglected. i think it is important that the commission and the presidency proceed with greater caution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, italy has recently suffered another environmental disaster. the lambro river and the po river. the court of justice of luxembourg has also recently condemned italy for the danger to public health posed by illegal waste disposal and for its failure to control the collection of waste in campania. the increase in leukemia in taranto across the ilva is in the news these days, as is the disposal of asbestos in schools in crotone and dioxin in campania. it's a continuous environmental disaster. i ask the commission what it intends to do to bring the italian government up to the standards of the european union directives, particularly in view of the ruling of the court of justice the other day, which severely condemned italy for failing to dispose of waste in campania: the city of naples has been exposed to public ridicule for many weeks and for many months around the world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, small and mediumsized enterprises, although they have become increasingly important in the european economic scene, still lack the appropriate incentives. the european commission has developed and implemented a series of measures specifically designed to assist these enterprises. the principle of 'think small first' is correct, which states that it is not only necessary but also appropriate to take care of the small in order to promote their existence in the business environment. reducing administrative costs, simplifying procedures and improving market access, thus increasing competitiveness, are the essential tools for overcoming the crisis. i welcome mr lehne's proposal to exempt micro-entities from accounting burdens, thus reducing administrative red tape. i am also in favour of giving the member states a fairly limited degree of freedom in the application of this directive. as the european union has not yet achieved complete harmonization in the legal field, i believe that the exemption must be achieved by means of intermediate steps. you see, thinking of my country, which is so famous for its excessive bureaucratic formalities, i think it is absolutely appropriate to simplify accounting procedures first, through online procedures, which do not require technical advice, or at least no additional costs, as is already the case in some regions. this could be a first for me.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today three measures relating to health and consumer protection, which we have already voted in favour of in committee and will do so in the house. we are on the side of the citizens who are too often harmed by decisions of european bodies: i am thinking of the decision of the european court of human rights to deny freedom to display the crucifix. the inability to target illegal immigrants effectively; the continuing flow of people from third countries who are taking jobs away from our people; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. the report also calls for the establishment of a european consumer protection agency, which would be responsible for the protection of consumers. it also stresses the need to harmonise the supervisory and control structures of the member states, including those of third countries. the thun und hohenstein report criticises certain attitudes adopted in the past, and calls for a sharing of responsibility between the member states and the commission. the buşoi report deals with the solvit network, set up by the european commission to assist citizens and businesses free of charge in asserting their rights vis-à-vis the union, especially in cases of disputes; it also criticises certain inefficiencies in the network and recommends better information for citizens and businesses, who are often unaware of the existence of this structure. we as legislators must first of all have regard for citizens and consumers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today we are voting on the own-initiative report on consumer protection, a very important instrument for which i must thank mrs hedh and her colleagues for the excellent atmosphere in which we have been able to work together. we have had many points of total sharing, others on which i hope we can work in the future: i am therefore going to start with the european consumer assessment framework promoted by the european commission, a very important instrument which, however, in my view, does not yet provide uniform data to enable us to make decisions with confidence. if we were a company and we were evaluating the future of the company on data that was not yet accurate, we could also make it fail. so in the future, i hope that we can work on a database that allows us to make informed decisions. the report also takes account of the great importance given to consumers, but i think, on behalf of the group, that a greater balance is needed in the future, because european citizens are not only consumers but also employees of companies operating in the internal market. the balance between the supplier of services and the consumer must therefore always be kept in mind, because that is what we want to achieve. an informed consumer is a free consumer so any initiative to provide more information is welcome but we said no to school programmes because we must not replace the consumer in his freedom of choice and we believe that the parent is the first referent of the youngest for what consumer education should be. the parent, by the way, also has control over the child's consumption, especially when he is in an early age. as far as adults are concerned, it is true that sometimes consumers have difficulty in obtaining legal protection in the appropriate legal bodies, which is why we are in favour of extrajudicial remedies, but we believe that more could be done, especially in times of crisis, to make what already exists work, rather than trying to increase the number of mediators who take on the defence of consumers. i conclude with the services provided by the public administration: i am sorry that no proper consideration has been given to the fact that the public administration, the municipalities, the bodies, the provinces, even the states are also a reference point for the consumer. i hope that more can be done in the future, because the consumer must also be able to be protected from those services provided by the public administration which do not work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, these proposals are intended to make it easier for third-country nationals legally resident in a member state to move around the schengen area with a long-stay visa of type d. in essence, the principle of equivalence between a residence permit and a c-type short-stay visa is to be extended - and this is a matter of concern to us - to long-stay visas. consequently, the long-stay visa will have the same effect as the residence permit as regards movement within the schengen area. in other words, it is intended to allow anyone who has a document proving his legal residence in a single member state to move freely within the schengen area for short periods of no more than three months each semester. we point out to the commission and the council the safety problems which may arise from this free movement. it is already very difficult to carry out checks in one member state: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the buşoi report because i believe that the service provided by solvit is of fundamental importance in the context of a clear and transparent relationship between the institutions, citizens and businesses, which is one of the foundations of the european union. solvit has proved to be a useful tool for solving the problems of citizens and businesses who want to exploit the full potential of the internal market. many countries in the european union still have barriers in their national legislation which need to be removed. i therefore believe that the allocation of additional funds, the recruitment of additional specialised staff and the improvement of the visibility of this service, including at the level of local authorities, where it could be very useful, should be supported.
in writing. − the use of the globalisation adjustment fund as a tool to deal with the consequences of the economic and financial crisis is a very good initiative that provides a concrete response in terms of financial assistance. it is important to remember that the mobilisation of this fund must be an incentive to relocate redundant workers. i hope that the demands of other countries, such as italy, which need to ask for the intervention of this special fund to support the employees of those companies which are paying the consequences of the crisis and are being forced to make cuts, will also be supported. in this respect, however, i would ask the commission to be more flexible in assessing the eligibility criteria for the fund, which should also be activated in the event of structural difficulties in small and mediumsized local industrial districts.
in writing. − consumer protection is closely linked to the market's ability to offer a wide range of high-quality products and services at competitive prices. it is clear that increased consumer confidence, awareness and responsibility will lead to demand for ever higher quality goods and services, which in turn will increase competition between suppliers who will be incentivised to improve supply while keeping prices at competitive levels. i agree with the importance attached by the commission and the member states to launching a communication strategy on consumer rights through web portals, awareness campaigns, information points, also promoting the use of the eyouguide website, while ensuring the reliability, credibility and impartiality of the bodies responsible for ensuring the management and organisation. the five indicators of the framework for the valuation of markets and goods identified in the resolution, although not exhaustive, will certainly also provide useful data to improve the regulatory framework if necessary, provided that the data provided by the states are complete and that their aggregation can be carried out on an easily comparable basis. i am voting in favour of the report, although i have some reservations about the establishment of the consumer ombudsman and the collective redress mechanisms.
in writing. - the solvit network has proved to be a very valuable tool for solving problems faced by citizens and businesses, without legal proceedings, due to the incorrect application of internal market law by public authorities. it must therefore be supported in various ways, through greater cooperation between the commission, parliament and the member states. first of all, it is necessary to promote greater awareness among citizens and businesses and to strengthen cooperation between national, regional and local authorities. the training of civil servants working in this field, such as the staff of the solvit network, which, as the commission's communication stresses, must also be strengthened through the european social fund, should also be given greater support. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that strengthening the solvit network can really help to improve the legal framework for the internal market which we are trying so hard to build. promoting data transparency with an interactive online database increases knowledge of the rules and speed of problem solving and increases trust in operators.
in writing. − the competition policy report shows how to improve the functioning of markets to the benefit of european consumers and businesses. particular attention was paid to the issues of 'cartels and consumers'. fighting cartels is essential to ensure that the benefits of a competitive regime reach the final consumer. the following are among the most serious infringements of competition law: it allows operators to raise prices, limit production and share markets. the commission's role is to impose sanctions, thereby prohibiting anticompetitive behaviour, and to fine cartel members, thereby discouraging any undertaking from engaging in or continuing to engage in anticompetitive behaviour. during an economic crisis the risk is to increase the level of protectionism. it is therefore necessary to avoid public intervention that would alter the conditions of competition in the internal market, but at the same time to recognise that sometimes the use of state aid is indispensable to deal with the crisis. i am voting in favour of this because an anti-competitive environment encourages the abuse of dominant positions to the detriment of smes and it is therefore essential that europe should work towards greater product guarantee and protection.
in writing. − having improved the transposition deficit of directives, reaching the 1% mark, it is now essential to focus on improving the practical implementation of internal market legislation in national legal systems. the commission, parliament and the member states must make greater efforts in this area and cooperate with each other. for its part, the commission must provide greater support to the member states during the transposition period, through dialogue and exchange of information to resolve problems before the transposition deadline, organise an annual internal market forum and seek new solutions to remove the barriers still preventing the completion of the internal market, including simplification of legislation. we members of the european parliament, as representatives of the citizens, must use every possible opportunity to inform them about european legislation by promoting studies, seminars, conferences and hearings. the national parliaments must be actively involved in the european legislative process in order to be informed in good time of proposed legislation, improving cooperation between national, regional and local authorities. in this sense, the treaty of lisbon gives the elected assemblies a more decisive role, which must be exploited to the full. for all the reasons which have been set out and which are well explained in the report, i shall vote in favour.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak on behalf of the alde group, my political group. on 5 march, the president of the italian republic, giorgio napolitano, signed an interpretative decree law, also known as the "salva liste". that decree effectively allows, as the election campaign begins, to change the rules of the game. giorgio napolitano himself, from the quirinale website, states that "from the draft decree presented to me by the government, in a tense meeting on thursday evening, the text subsequently elaborated by the minister of the interior and the presidency of the council of ministers did not present in my opinion any obvious flaws of unconstitutionality". article 87 (5) of the italian constitution provides that the president of the italian republic 'shall promulgate laws and issue decrees having the force of law and regulations'. the president of the republic may not participate in the drafting of legal acts or decrees. the president of the republic, his predecessor, carlo azeglio ciampi, considers this an aberrant episode of distortion of our democratic system. it's clear that the government is doing what the constitution forbids. that decree, mr. president, changed the rules of the game to an already elected competition, allowing those who have violated the law to perform, re-admitted to the electoral competition. i wonder why this parliament is always ready to take action against countries that break the law but does not realise that there is a country that is one of the 27 member states that breaks the law. (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, some time ago in this house, under false pretenses, shameful words were spoken against the president of the italian republic. i believe that the bureau of this house should not allow national policy issues to be brought into this house, especially when it comes to institutional and political matters of great importance. i remind you and all my colleagues that the italian republic is not for sale, that the president of the republic, giorgio napolitano, is the guardian of the italian constitution. on behalf of the italian delegation of the democratic party and the socialist and democratic group, i would ask the presidency of this house to be more vigilant about the topics of debate and the speeches that are made. i regret that president buzek did not come to the house to take up an attack on the president of the republic who was visiting the european parliament only a week ago. (applause from the left)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the roma problem is becoming increasingly complex and urgently requires effective and immediate responses. their representatives, institutions, the associations world and part of civil society call for their inclusion in the socioeconomic fabric but rarely focus on what is the fundamental point: the european union is a political union, a political union, a political union. without the real will of a part of the roma to accept the rules and culture of the countries in which they live and without the concomitant renunciation of all those conduct incompatible with civil coexistence, their inclusion will never be completed: in this case, we could continue to develop projects and allocate funds, but we will never see any tangible results. the challenge must be met with demagogy: we ask that the question be approached with the necessary pragmatism and with the awareness that the worrying economic and employment situation will be a factor that will make the issue of roma inclusion in the labour market more difficult. we believe that, as centuries of history have taught us, the difficulty of integration cannot be attributed solely to the host countries and that the responsibility for the lack of integration to date lies at least with both sides.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are talking a lot about transport planning at the moment and we will talk about it in the next few months. i think it's discouraging to start with the first package review seeing what's happened so far; so we need to have even more courage to try to reverse this course. i think that this can be focused on and confirmed by three fundamental points. the first, i believe, is the liberalization of rail transport, where it creates competition and stimulates competitiveness, of course with clear and transparent rules for everyone, as has already been said. the second focus would be on interoperability between states and between the various modes within rail transport. the third point is, of course, safety, requiring safety certification as a precondition for obtaining a licence. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the subject of the safety of nuclear installations. the european railway agency's powers must be extended to include more far-reaching inspection and control powers. i think that is the effort we must make in the next period, when we are dealing with the sustainable future of transport, with the revision of the tens, with the revision of freight transport, which is already under way in our committee, and, last but not least, with this revision, which we must take in hand and make sure that we reverse the course of what has happened so far.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i'm just telling you from personal experience. i live on a major railroad, the line across the brenner to verona. the italian state railways have been neglecting both freight and passenger transport there for years. now the austrian railway runs this route five times a day. but you won't find a timetable for this at italian railway stations, and you won't get a ticket. well, when you consider that this line is currently being rebuilt for about 20 billion euros and that the european union is also investing a lot of money here, you can see how absurd things are in this area in some cases. it's not always the big things, sometimes it's the little things that make it complicated. i therefore urge you, commissioner, to intervene, to find sanctions and to take decisive action to ensure that the commission's guidelines are respected.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i believe that there is an original sin in the matter we are debating tonight, namely the secrecy with which the negotiations have been conducted up to now. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter. the opacity of the negotiations is a problem we also encounter in other cases - we have talked about it in the korean agreement - and it is something that now, with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, must end. it seems to me that this original sin is also the child of a drift: the fight against counterfeiting should be used to fight other battles, as if it were a slogan in the name of which everything is permitted. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i come from a city that you know well, commissioner, venice, where the rules for counterfeiting products - i am thinking of murano glass, for example - were very strict (the penalty was death). so it's certainly something we have to take seriously in an increasingly global economy like ours. however, there are serious threats that this agreement is provoking, creating alarm in public opinion, and of course the commission must be aware of this. it is true that the issue, which should be a matter for the committee on international trade, is becoming less and less of a matter for the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. we are concerned about issues concerning freedom of information and expression through the internet, the right to privacy, the possible criminal and civil consequences for internet service providers: i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. on the more strictly commercial side, i would ask the commissioner to ensure that acta cannot be used to counter the trade in medicines which are more competitive, safe medicines, generic medicines which do not violate copyright but which are largely the fault of emerging countries like india and brazil and can disrupt the western pharmaceutical industries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe's ambitions to remain the world's largest economy must be increasingly linked to the strengthening of europe's competitiveness, the quality of its productive fabric and its ability to conquer new markets. in this context, the fight against counterfeiting and commercial fraud plays an essential role. the protection of trademarks, patents and intellectual property is not only a non-financial instrument for making the system more competitive: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. acta is a fundamental tool in the fight against a phenomenon, counterfeiting, which reaches an incredible 500 billion dollars a year, which has links with organized crime, which affects, by threatening them, fundamental human rights, such as health, if we only think about the story of counterfeit medicines. the timeliness of acta must be judged in the light of this global picture. on the other hand, we cannot but call on this treaty to respect, here too, certain basic, fundamental principles of coexistence inspired by respect for the rules. we cannot hide our concern about the legal basis of the treaty, the negotiating mandate and its transparency. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the negotiators of the executive committee must report to this parliament on the progress of the work and access to the papers and information is necessary to express a complete assessment. it is in the difficult but fruitful spirit of cooperation between parliament and the commission that the european union can best develop its potential. the resolution goes in that direction and as such deserves our vote.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the acta agreement is essential to achieving full harmonization of european trade defence measures against counterfeiting and piracy. the negotiations are concerned with sensitive issues of european legislation, such as the enforcement of intellectual property rights and the protection of data, and we therefore call for greater transparency. the commission must make a full effort, while respecting the level of confidentiality. the current negotiating texts should be made available to parliament so that it can follow up on the agreements and suggest any comments to the acta participants. the commissioner's words this evening give us hope, but we want to see action to follow the words. parliament has always fought to protect european consumers and producers from counterfeiting and measures to protect privacy on the internet, and it is therefore essential that the commission continue to be active in the current negotiations, calling for a greater number of participants, which unfortunately are currently limited to twelve. we hope that an increasing number of countries - developing and emerging countries - will be encouraged to reach negotiations and sign the final agreement, to allow for a broader vision. countries are taking on and fulfilling shared obligations to fight counterfeiting and piracy more effectively, an economic scourge that kills many productive sectors that operate within the rules. it is therefore necessary to guarantee clear rules for consumers, who are exposed to harm that is not irrelevant to their health, because, commissioner, in the absence of clear and applied rules, including for the internet, the internet itself becomes a boomerang of opportunity. and we must all work together to prevent this, because it is not just a matter of individual privacy, but also of the security of our countries.
author of the book. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, shortly after the establishment of this parliament we were confronted with the question of the suspension of the gsp+, in particular with the application or non-application of this mechanism, sri lanka and colombia. in the first case we have seen one of a series of mistakes, some of them serious, made by a country like sri lanka, which has the mitigating factor of having just come out of a very long civil war against a terrible terrorist organization. the commission has, in my view, acted in a certain haste in this case, which has led to the proposal to suspend gsp+. the council, on the other hand, did not have any sri lankan godparents, so to speak, and the decision was taken. as far as the european parliament is concerned, it has played no role: no one asked our opinion. in the second case, we have a country which is fighting a terrible internal guerrilla war and where there are serious human rights violations, including the frequent murder of trade unionists. the commission has not yet spoken about the need to open an investigation and is instead following the free trade agreement, which i personally support. in the council, we know that there are governments very active in protecting the interests of the colombian authorities and, once again, the role of the european parliament has been zero: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in both cases we have had no impact study on the employment and economic consequences of a possible suspension but, in all the inconsistency, there is this common element: the marginal role of the european parliament. however, these are primarily political decisions, not technical ones, and i find this unacceptable. there is therefore a need for a new regulation, taking advantage of the deadline at the end of 2011, as these two concrete cases demonstrate. however, in the meantime it would be good to discuss what is happening in these particular countries in recent months. it would be interesting to know, for example, what threshold of human rights violations the commission considers it would have to cross to open an investigation in colombia or another country, or what concrete steps the sri lankan government, such as suspending martial law, would have to take to avoid enforcing the suspension. what we are asking, commissioner, is this: a new proposal, possibly by june; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the signing and application of the 27 conventions of the international labour organisation in the beneficiary countries; the transparency of the rules for their conduct; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is an important occasion to reaffirm first of all the importance of the generalized system of preferences. both the gsp basic scheme and the gsp+ scheme, both linked to the everything but arms agreement, contribute to poverty reduction, in close alignment with the primary duty to respect human rights. it is the violation of these basic principles of coexistence that recently led the european union to withdraw the benefits of preferential tariffs from sri lanka, following a thorough investigation by the executive commission. the new institutional framework must, however, see parliament fully involved in the legislative process to amend existing legislation. we therefore hope that this will be a thorough revision, in accordance with the ordinary procedures of the legislation, which has many shortcomings, for example on the subject of investigations. hence the joint resolution. the effectiveness of the regulation depends on its credibility, the objectivity of the criteria on which it is based and the rigour with which it is applied. in a europe where the vast majority of citizens do not agree with the export of democracy at the point of a bayonet, trade and aid for trade are an essential vehicle for the spread of the principles of coexistence based on respect for fundamental human rights. this duty reminds us of the need not to indulge in culpable laxity but also to avoid falling into hasty judgments towards some, which sound like irrevocable condemnations: this is the case in colombia. that is why i do not share the rigid, almost one-sided attitude towards this or that state, but i strongly urge that monitoring of all problematic situations be strengthened, in the spirit of the legislation in force and along the lines of those we want to base the legislative revision we are calling for.
member of the commission. − mr president, several questions have been asked on sri lanka and on colombia, and on why in one case we decided to have an enquiry and take a decision and in the other case we did not. in the case of sri lanka, the commission’s attention was drawn to publicly available reports and statements from the united nations as well as to other relevant sources, including non-governmental organisations, indicating that sri lanka was not effectively implementing various human rights conventions, in particular the international covenant on civil and political rights, the convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, and the convention on the rights of the child. however, unlike colombia, sri lanka’s general approach was to deny the existence of any problems and not to cooperate with the commission at any stage of the investigation. in the case of colombia, the united nations and ilo monitoring results show that there are question marks on the degree of effective implementation of certain un and ilo conventions, but it is also clear that colombia has engaged with the ilo and the united nations bodies and has made substantial changes to its legal system, and that steps are being taken by the government to amend its legislation and improve its implementation on the ground. there is an ongoing dialogue in cooperation with the united nations and the ilo. with regard to the question put by mr moreira, i would like to say that in the review of the gsp regulation we are working to find a balance between the different requests that have been made here. we have been asked to do that as soon as possible, and will do so. we were asked to have an impact assessment and will receive the 2009 gsp data only in july this year, which will be followed, of course, by consultation of parliament. i would also like to recall the commitment i made to the committee on international trade at the time of my hearing and subsequently to provide a timetable for our legislative proposals that will be submitted to that committee in the coming months. as you will know, we are scheduled to meet tomorrow. we will try to work something out together that gives parliament the maximum possibility to discuss in all openness the different dossiers, including the new gsp new regulation and the roll-over system, which we should introduce as early as april.
in welcoming mrs ashton, i declare the sitting open. the agenda for the joint debate is as follows: the report by gabriele albertini, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the annual report from the council to the european parliament on the main aspects and basic choices of the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) in 2008, presented to the european parliament pursuant to point 43 of section g of part ii of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 (2009/2057 (ini)) (a7-0023/2010), the report by arnaud danjean, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the implementation of the european security strategy and the common security and defence policy (2009/2198 (ini)) (a7-0026/2010), the oral question to the council on the non-proliferation treaty, by gabriele albertini and arnaud danjean, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs (o-0169/2009 - b7-0009/2010), and the oral question to the commission on the non-proliferation treaty, by gabriele albertini and arnaud danjean, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs (o-0170/2009 - b7-0010/2010).
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, there is a need for a new approach on the part of the union, a joint effort to tackle global challenges. the new powers which have been given to parliament by the entry into force of the treaty mean that parliament is engaged in a frequent, collaborative and efficient dialogue with our first interlocutor, the new vice-president/high representative whom baroness ashton has the honour of representing for the first time. his mandate was subject to our vote of consent in january and on several occasions, as a parliamentary assembly, we were promised continued involvement by the council and the commission in all the most relevant issues of european security and defence. the high representative is therefore invited, as the report itself insists, to appear before the european parliament and to consult it frequently and regularly. with lisbon, the european union's external action takes on a new and important dimension, but to achieve this goal in practice it is also important that it has the necessary budgetary resources. the european parliament has a key role to play in ensuring the democratic legitimacy of external action. the creation of a european external action service will give the european union a diplomatic body and apparatus which could only be relied upon by national representation. of particular relevance and relevance are the following official representatives: the high representative shall be responsible for the appointment. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are not left behind in the process of democratization. the hope is that the form of double-hatting will gradually be achieved - except in the case of the special representative, which has a regional scope of action - and that economies of scale will thus be achieved, making the european union's external action more efficient and at the same time less burdensome. the report begins with an introductory and strategic section, and then deals with the subject of european foreign policy by subject and geographical area. the european union must, together with its allies in the international organizations, and above all in the united nations, be the highest guarantor of world security. it must be able to count not only on its seat on the security council but also on the staff and delegations that are the link between the two realities. europe, as the vice-president/high representative is asked to do, wants to become an active, strategic and independent partner of a great ally like the united states in responding to the global challenges of terrorism, finance, and the often difficult relations with industrial giants such as russia, china and japan. the report then proceeds with a geographical analysis of the desirable lines. in the balkans, the enlargement theme is mainly introduced by: the european union is present in kosovo with the eulex mission, but efforts still need to be made to ensure that the accession standards of many neighbouring countries applying for membership are respected. the chapter on cooperation with the east and the black sea regions deals with the security of supply and the european union's energy dependence. the section on russia calls for the signing of a new partnership and cooperation agreement. the european union calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information and communication networks, including the european information and communication network, and for the establishment of a european network of information and communication networks. middle east: the israeli-palestinian conflict, where the european union will need to play a stronger political role in order to relaunch the peace process following the council decision of 12 december 2009. union for the mediterranean: settlement of the turkish-cypriot conflict. asia: afghanistan, a critical period for the formation of the new government after the elections; pakistan's key role in the fight against terrorism; concern about the violation of fundamental rights in iran. africa: positive contribution of the somali coastal defence mission. latin america: the need to create a stable and lasting partnership for relations between the european union and latin america. i shall listen with great interest to the comments of my colleagues and reserve the right to reply at the end.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs ashton, in the context of president albertini's report, which is really excellent, there is a passage which seems to me to be politically important: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is not possible to control migration flows of such enormous dimensions by means of repressive measures and domestic policy measures alone. even the distribution of migrants among all the states of europe would not solve the problem, but would rather encourage new arrivals. a fundamental response to the control of migration is development cooperation policy, which is best coordinated at european level and aimed not only at economic but also at social and democratic progress. migration should be a choice, not a necessity. for this cooperation policy to be effective and reach those who really need it, it is essential to promote good local governance, without which there would be inefficiency, corruption, waste of resources and poor results. ensuring local governance and cooperation between governments is a foreign policy issue and cooperation must become an important instrument of european foreign policy: this is the message i would like to convey to high representative ashton in an area which is very close to my heart, cooperation.
i am sorry, mr president, but you spoke for one minute and 44 seconds, compared with the allotted time.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too take advantage of the excellent reports by mr danjean and mr albertini to come back to support the key role of the high representative. it is for the good of all that you, baroness ashton, should realise the importance of your role, defend it and be determined to claim that role in transposing the treaty provisions into concrete deeds, for example by strengthening the european union's relations with its strategic partners and consolidating its leadership in multilateral fora. in short, it is urgent that we come up with a strategy which finally identifies the real interests we are seeking to pursue, and it is important that the member states are involved in relevant objectives. it is also important that it should not be influenced by any interinstitutional disagreements on the division of powers. i am referring in particular to the future european external action service. we want you, you know, mrs. ashton, the lead. we want you to be the star in a non-bureaucratic way. so let me make this observation to you: i am really sorry that you have decided not to take part in our discussion today on cuba. i know that you can give formal reasons and that you will take part first in the discussion, which is also very important, on the arctic. but cuba libre is not just the name of a cocktail: it is the cry of democracy that so many in this parliament carry in their hearts. i hope, therefore, that you will find the time to be able to attend, to speak and to support with your strength and with the strength of your role the resolution of parliament. you're in the arctic debate, and you'll find that with a little ice, cuba libre tastes better.
mr president, the joint motion for a resolution on the non-proliferation treaty is a very important one, and the alde group and i are very proud to have contributed to its elaboration. the resolution is holistic because it encompasses all the disarmament matters, from the npt review conference to the issue of nuclear-weapon-free zones. this resolution calls for a middle east free of nuclear weapons and for the withdrawal of all tactical warheads from european soil, in the context of a brotherly dialogue with russia. this resolution also frequently refers to a nuclear-weapon-free world, a target to be achieved through a special convention and within an ‘ambitious’ time-frame – this means a short one. our resolution is the european answer to president obama’s proposal of the abolition of nuclear weapons. this document should be considered, therefore, as a step on the road to the total ban of atomic weapons. it means to end the paradox of the possession of nuclear devices by some countries, which is legal on the one side, and the complete prohibition of chemical and biological arsenals for all countries, on the other side. atomic bombs must be made illegal and their possession should one day be considered a criminal act. i am confident this parliament will continue in this direction with even more drive and more vision.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr high representative/vice-president, i should like to emphasize that we are discussing three excellent documents drawn up by parliament: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is an important fact that demonstrates the will and the capacity of parliament to play a central role also in the field of the cfsp/csdp on the basis of a dynamic reading of the lisbon treaty. we intend to use this role in the process of building the external action service, not only to ensure parliament's prerogatives, but also to help make the service a structure capable of ensuring the coherence and effectiveness of the eu's external action, while at the same time strengthening and progressively extending the community method. as regards the danjean report, i would like to stress that the concept of strategic autonomy is envisaged here in the framework of a multilateral approach and that it is a condition for strengthening the strategic partnership with the united states, as well as the fact that parliament is united in its call for an operations centre, and i appreciated that you, mr high representative, have declared yourself open to dialogue, in-depth study and discussion on this subject. on the non-proliferation resolution, i would like to stress the importance of taking the perspective of a world free of nuclear weapons and the clear judgment on the anachronism of tactical nuclear weapons and the value of the positions recently taken by some european governments in this regard. we are therefore receiving a clear, realistic and ambitious message from parliament, and we hope that the high representative will take it up and do just that.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i should like first of all to express my thanks for the contributions that have been made and say how much i thought this was an important and valuable debate in terms of our strategic direction. i want to say at the beginning that i agree completely with all honourable members who spoke of the value and importance of the scrutiny of this house and the role of this house, not only in terms of that scrutiny but also in terms of the expertise that i know exists within it. it is my intention to call upon that expertise and to hope to have as many occasions as possible where we are able to debate and discuss many if not all the important issues that have been raised today. i will be relatively brief at this point but i will just try to talk about a few of the key areas that i think honourable members are most concerned about. i shall begin by saying that i did not say ‘no’ to the barnier report. what i said was, on the basis of lessons learnt from haiti and now the support we are offering in chile, we wanted to look at how much more we could do, how we could operate more effectively, what we should have on standby and whether we should have something on standby. that requires us to consider strategically what we should be doing, and the barnier report provides the backdrop to do that. i am very grateful to michel for the contribution that he has made on that – it is the backdrop. on the non-proliferation treaty: a number of honourable members have raised the importance of the conference that is coming up in may, all of which i agree with. it is very important that we move forward now in terms of what the opportunity of may will afford us. i also agree that security begins with strong political relations. we have to consistently view our approach in the wider world as being about developing those strong political relationships in order to promote security, not only for ourselves but also for third states, for states with whom we are seeking to have that relationship or with whom we are in dialogue because of the concerns that we have. a number of honourable members quite rightly raised the importance of the balkans. i have indicated in my priorities that this is an incredibly important area of work. it is very important in the period building up to the elections in bosnia that we promote the importance of the european union and make sure that national politicians describe to their people the path that they plan to take to get closer ties with europe and ultimately to become part of europe. i agree on the importance of valentin inzko and the work he is doing in the office of the high representative. he and i are working together to think about the strategic approach – again for a future that takes us way beyond the elections to where we need to be in the coming months and years in order to retain the security. i take the point about the importance of stability: not only do we have to have it there, but we need to keep it there. there is concern in the region that we are seen to be moving forward and on occasions i feel we have got a bit stuck in what we need to do next. we need to take that forward. that is particularly true, as a number of honourable members have said, in kosovo, where i have met the government. i have had conversations with the government and with the prime minister in particular, to look at what we would do with them in the future. then there is serbia, which is pushing very hard to become a part of the european union. when i met president tadić and the government members, it was very clear there too that this is something they see as being their future, and they too understand the issues that we are concerned about on that journey. concerning the debate on cuba, i would have been there. it is simply that we have a clash. there is the council of presidents meeting to discuss the external action service and i cannot be in two places at once. that is what the european parliament decided in terms of timing. i must obey and be present at that. however, i think cuba is an important issue and i have no doubt that we will return to that subject. concerning the separate department for peace-building, my response is that it should be in everything we do and i am always nervous about separating out something, as if somehow it is separate from every bit of work we are doing. if you look at how we are going to operate the external action service, it is like an umbrella organisation that takes in clearly the responsibilities under the treaty but also is your servant and the commission’s servant. so when the commission is looking to do things on trade, on climate change, on energy security across the world, the external action service can be its tool as well, directly linking the work of the commission to what happens on the ground. all of that, i would maintain, is about a more secure, more stable world. so for me it is all about how we build in the idea that we are there to support efforts to ensure that we have peace and that we keep peace. on atalanta: i think the points made there are very positive. it is a very important mission, but it is a mission that has to be connected to all the other things we are doing in that region. i also take the point that we need to think about fishing and the strategy on that. that is very much understood. working groups: i think it is a very good idea for parliament to have them. i think senior officials are linking with them well at the moment and we need to continue to do that. on the operational headquarters: it is not that i have changed my position. what i said in january was that i remain to be convinced. we have now been looking at this, because, as i have been in the job a little bit longer, i am more engaged in the work that we are doing in terms of our missions abroad, whether in kosovo, whether in bosnia or whether in discussing what we are doing in atalanta or indeed what we have just been doing in haiti, and so forth. in my speech i said that we need to look at what is necessary and then decide how best to achieve it. there are different views, but those views, i believe, will converge around a common theme, and that is what we ought to do. so it is about being convinced one way or the other as to how we do it. on human rights: i want to describe that as a silver thread. the projection of our values and human rights is essential to everything that we do in the european union and in the wider world. it is about how we make sure that it is a thread that runs all the way through all our actions in terms of support for the work that we are doing across the world to promote the values of the european union. i want to look very carefully at how we do that, so it is not something that just becomes an add-on extra to a dialogue. it becomes an integral part of everything that we do. i agree as well about the strong relationship transatlantically with the united states. they are a strong partner with us on a whole range of things, particularly on crisis management, and it is very important that we build on that. i am also very keen to build on the work that we do with the us in areas of development, for example particularly in africa, where there is a potential – i believe, anyway – to do a lot more, certainly in the light of my experience with aid for trade as the trade commissioner. we also need to think about other big partnerships. i have been talking to the brazilian foreign minister about the potential of again working together on development where the economies of scale and the ability to collaborate enable us to release resources in a much more effective way to certain parts of the world which are in real need. i agree too on the cyber threats. this is a very important issue. it is here now. it is an issue we are going to have to keep looking at because inevitably the threats change all the time. just a little bit on the external action service. the geographical breadth of the european union has to be represented within the external action service. i agree with that completely, but it will take me time to do it. one of the things that i have said to all the foreign ministers and i say to parliament is: please resist the temptation to assume that, because the first four or five appointments i make are not from a member state that you might know best, it does not mean that i will not make appointments in the future from those member states. we simply have to build it stage by stage. remember, as honourable members know, it does not exist at all at the moment. i do not have a team or a staff for the external action service because. until the legal basis is done, we do not have anything. we simply have what we had before, trying to bring it together in a more coherent way. i will appoint on merit and nothing else. there are no favourites here. it is on merit. i want the brightest and the best and that is what i have said to member states and the institutions. i want the delegations on the ground to be an umbrella, able to support the work of the european union in all its different elements, as it is represented to third countries, as it works with third countries. it is essential that it does that as otherwise we will end up fragmented again. the question is how to do it, and that is why we are in dialogue with the council and the commission at the moment. if it were very simple, we would have done it by now. we just have to make sure that we do it properly and effectively. we will work that out in the next few weeks. in terms of resources, i am going to argue for flexibility. i am going to argue that, if you have a crisis in a particular country or if you realise that you need to be able to move resources, we should deal with it, but deal with it within the context of parliamentary scrutiny. and again we need to think about how to make that work, not just now but in the future. we absolutely must avoid duplication; otherwise we will have gained nothing except more bureaucracy, which is not what we want to do. we have to make sure that this is a cohesive service that runs well, operating as an entity within the european union, supporting and being supported by the other institutions. and, as i have said, we must remember that it does not exist yet. let us hope that we can get the work done in the next few weeks. with parliament supporting me i am sure we will, so we can get this into being. we can lay the foundation stones but it will take time to build it, and that is so important that i hope that every honourable member will understand. a couple of final points. on summits: we have lots of different summits. the question that we always have to keep in mind is the value and importance of them. i cannot go to all of them. there are simply too many. i will be at some. we were well represented at the morocco summit because both presidents were there. i honestly believe that if the presidents of the council and the commission are there, we have to start saying that is a strong eu representation at the summit. it does not always require me to be there as well, and they would agree with that. finally, honourable members talked about relationships with countries like japan, with countries important to us in strategic partnership like russia, the importance and value of the middle east, where i will travelling from sunday onwards, and the importance and value of the quartet, because i will travel through the middle east. i think i visit five countries and then i will end up in moscow for the quartet meeting in order to discuss and debate what we do next. finally, honourable members, thank you for noticing i am on the council side and there is no commission. i will change sides. until there is a seat in the middle, i will keep moving across. it will be your responsibility to remember which side i should be on as i come in. and, finally can i again thank mr albertini and mr danjean very much for excellent reports which have given me the opportunity to put forward my views today. (applause)
the rapporteur. - i thank the members who have spoken in such large numbers, both those who have - and here my thanks are very special - approved the main features of the report, praising its content and recognizing themselves in it, but also those who have expressed criticism and have done so above all with a will to overcome the unfortunately tragic events of the use of force and to dream of a world of peace. a great greek philosopher, plato, said that only the dead will see the end of war. but we do not accept this and we are trying to prevent this from happening, even if the reality of the situation requires us to use force even for peace missions. i am pleased with the high representative/vice-president ashton, whom i thank for quoting my report: i very much like his approach, this duality of his, which, however, seeks to be synergistic, between the tasks of the council and the commission. the very physical location of the president - which will be between the council benches in this chamber and the commission benches - expresses his willingness to play both roles. we must, i believe, as a parliament, support and promote this synergistic effort. the european commission has programmes for development, neighbourhood, stability, the promotion of human rights and democracy; the council shall develop peace and rule of law missions. this set of issues must be addressed by the european external diplomatic service: the commission's proposal is to be effective, efficient and equipped with the necessary skills and resources to play its role properly, and we will do our utmost to ensure that this is the case. i also thank the high representative for his forthcoming attendance at the foreign affairs committee hearing on this subject of the external service, which will have the opportunity to be dealt with in depth. our collaboration begins today, but it doesn't end today.
mr president, i apologize for this speech, but i felt it was my duty as a member of the european parliament elected in italy to address my respectful and respectful greetings from this house to the president of the republic of my country, mr giorgio napolitano, the guarantor of the constitutional values and national unity of our country. respect and deference are the only attitudes with which the president of the italian republic should be addressed by this house. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i did not support the lehne resolution - unfortunately, because it dealt with micro-enterprises, which are the backbone of the economy - but i believe that the resolution, as it is intended, will create differences in competitiveness between enterprises in the various member states, and that is not what we want, especially today in a time of crisis. the report also stresses the need to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented in a timely manner and that the commission's proposals are implemented in a timely manner. i think we should instead work to give microenterprises incentives to have real tax relief, to enable young entrepreneurs and family businesses to be really competitive on the market and to finally be able to obtain credit from the institutions, which until now, i believe, have been mainly concerned with large enterprises.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr lehne. the european union is looking closely at the business world - today it has shown this - and my group, the people's party, in particular, has always made support for small and mediumsized enterprises one of its priorities. for these reasons, i think that the measures we have taken to reduce bureaucracy and reduce the costs of micro-enterprises are very appropriate. this measure is a real help to small businesses in these difficult times. finally, i agree with the flexibility of the measure, which gives member states the option of transposing the directive at the most appropriate time: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the controls are not applied in the same way as in the case of the other member states.
mr president, it is time to become politically mature. the crisis has shown the need for more coordination and guidance by community bodies of high standing and authority, more resources for infrastructure projects, more attention to genuine support for small and mediumsized enterprises. a great effort is needed to implement the internal market fully and a common fiscal policy is urgently needed. many in the past have ignored the waste that american banks were placing on the world market, resorting to unnecessary formalities, even within the union. it is a time of responsibility and it is a time of courage. the resolution which i voted with my group contains some of these points, but i think that barroso, the council and parliament should be more courageous.
mr president, we abstained, but the main reason is that i am against the clear intention of the european union and the commission to introduce a tax, as is shown by commissioner šemeta's recent statements to european voice, that he is about to introduce a minimum tax on emissions. we are against the idea of giving the european union the power to tax directly, an unconstitutional prerogative in almost all member states, because it violates the principle of 'no taxation without representation'. we will oppose any attempt to introduce direct taxation, including the june 2009 ruling of the german constitutional court. i would remind you that president van rompuy has already given an advance when, in the mysterious meeting held a week before his appointment to the bilderberg group (which is not exactly the height of globalist transparency), he announced - and even committed himself to - the proposal for a direct european tax on co2, which would entail immediate increases in fuel prices, services, etc., thus a detriment to the citizens of europe. this proposed eu tax is unconstitutional!
mr president, i thank mr albertini for the excellent work he has done on this central issue of european policy. with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the union's powers in the field of common foreign and security policy have increased, and i believe that many of us here would like to see the institution of which we are a part take on greater responsibility and involvement in foreign policy. i particularly share the call on the cfsp high representative to consult the relevant parliamentary committee of the european parliament on the appointments to the posts of the european external action service and to ensure that the european parliament, as well as the council, has access to confidential information. i therefore believe that the path taken with this report is a first, important step towards a strong european foreign policy, determined to assert its role and political weight on the international scene.
mr president, i voted in favour because i wanted to stress that the wish for increased synergies and cooperation in the military and civil fields between the european union and the member states, albeit with respect for certain non-aligned or neutral positions, is a position that is broadly shared. i also think it is important to establish coordination mechanisms such as a permanent european union operations centre under the authority of the high representative for the cfsp, which will enable joint planning of civil and military operations to be coordinated effectively. this is to eliminate the problems, the dysfunctions and the delays which the present system unfortunately causes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think i can say without any rhetoric that today, and especially tomorrow when we vote, we shall be writing a page in the history of this parliament. we write it because for once, by putting aside the mutual prejudices of belonging to different sides, we can bow before the supreme mystery of a man's death and admit what is true. what do we write in this resolution? we write things that may seem basic and obvious but are actually very relevant. we write that there is no freedom in cuba; we write that there is no freedom in cuba; we write that life is life and that you must not kill. it may seem almost obvious, but it took us many years to overcome our mutual prejudice and to come to recognize a fact which does not offend the political beliefs of each of us but which simply leads us to recognize that basic element of truth on which alone dialogue can be based. we must not withdraw from dialogue with cuba, but must demand that genuine dialogue start from the truth, that is, from the failure to recognize the human person as the centre of reality. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. parliament has welcomed this opportunity and done well. the high representative did not receive her, and i remind her again, just this morning, that cuba libre is not the name of a cocktail: it is the cry we carry in our hearts, because we want democracy and we want freedom in cuba.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, once again the choices and behaviour of the cuban communist regime are placing our parliament in a dilemma: is it possible to continue dialogue with this regime? the european parliament has been calling on the cuban authorities for years to introduce democratic reforms to ensure respect for human rights. but the transfer of power between fidel castro and his brother raúl has led neither to democratic reforms nor to the release of political prisoners. the death in prison of orlando zapata, after 85 days of hunger strike, demonstrates the ideological and oppressive nature of the regime. over the past 10 years, the european union has provided assistance to cuba worth €145 million: i don't see the results as encouraging. in fact, this funding has helped perpetuate a tyranny. if we want to be credible, we must demand that relations with havana, including development aid, be linked to concrete and verifiable improvements in the human rights situation for all cuban citizens, starting with the immediate release of political prisoners and prisoners of conscience. it is not a question of issuing an ultimatum but of demanding change from one of the most oppressive regimes on the planet, the epigone of an ideology defeated by history and on the verge of extinction.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate is not a ritual but it is intended to be very concrete and to ask clear and precise questions - how many resources and where to get them - and i hope, and parliament hopes, that the answers will be just as clear and precise today and at the next councils on 12 and 25 march. we want to say firmly to the commission and the council that the european union, which has raised the flag of the fight against atmospheric emissions and the climate challenge before the world, has today a duty of consistency if it does not want to lose credibility. it must do everything possible to ensure that these objectives are achieved. we must be very aware that to talk about a low-emission economy means a kind of copernican revolution for the production system. it means changing a lot of things, having clear priorities, political will but above all the right resources and tools. we also know that this copernican revolution is essential if our production system, european industry, is to remain competitive. i mean that in many countries, in many research centres, in many universities, the intelligence is ready, the capacity is there, the will is there: now it's about starting this engine. everyone must do it. the commissioner and the council have said: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but i believe that the essential task of putting this complex partnership together lies with the european union.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the debate on the european union's energy choices, there is one certainty: the most important, cheapest and most sustainable energy source available to us is energy saved. for natural, historical, cultural and economic reasons, mountain regions are a model for reducing energy consumption, compatible with the needs of modern life, and lend themselves to large-scale experimentation with the use of low-carbon renewable energy sources. mountain regions produce almost all of europe's hydroelectric power. to give an example, the province from which i come in italy alone produces 12% of the hydroelectric power of the entire country. in addition, there is a long history of experience in energy-efficient building techniques in mountain areas. houses have been built that are completely self-sufficient in both electricity and heating and that even provide more energy than they use, using advanced technology, of course. the mountains are often pilot areas, so they are the ideal setting for experimenting with better use of biomass, solar, geothermal, heat pumps and, above all, renewing energy distribution systems. commissioner, the mountain is full of energy, clean energy: just take it. we therefore ask the commission to involve mountain regions in its strategy, to study their experience and to recognise their right to fair compensation for all the renewable energy already supplied by these regions. article 174 of the lisbon treaty recognises the role of mountains: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and we are therefore urgently awaiting an initiative from the commission to implement this article and to implement a european policy on mountains, including in the energy field. i therefore call on the commission to follow the recommendations of the durnwalder report in the committee of the regions and to integrate the energy problems and the productive capacity of mountain regions in terms of renewable energy and passive construction in the evaluation of european territories. mountains, which account for 40% of europe's territory and 90 million inhabitants, have hitherto been seen as disadvantaged areas: by implementing innovative and coherent energy policies, these regions can overcome this handicap and provide a key stimulus to achieve the objectives set out in the 20-20-20 strategy, demonstrating that energy self-sufficiency is possible, at acceptable costs, if there is a firm political will.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we can agree on two things from what i heard this morning: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. but it is not enough, ladies and gentlemen, if we do not tackle two other issues in concrete terms. the first is nuclear: we're afraid of the word, afraid of the subject. we do research and we try to be responsible about that research. the second, funding: we are afraid to talk about ppps - i heard this morning - it almost seems like something strange, something corrupt, something suspicious at the very thought that the private can participate in some initiative with the public. it is unavoidable, ladies and gentlemen, with the financial resources we have to refer to. and it's also a serious matter that the public interacts with the private, because the public has to learn to act in a corporate way and in a sustainable policy.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the alde group joins in the condolences for the victims of the storm xynthia, which has hit various parts of europe. we must react, and i have appreciated the serious statements made today by commissioner potočnik, whose competence i appreciate and whose commitment i must acknowledge. i would urge him to follow up on the necessary amendments to the solidarity fund, but i would remind him that this parliament has already approved the measure by a large majority since 2006. in the face of these situations, in the face of these deaths, we cannot but be reminded of the urgency of taking measures like this. but at the same time, mr president, we must act on several fronts and first of all review all the development and spatial planning plans and update them to take account of the environmental impact, including the assessment of the effects on the territory. large sums are also needed to establish long-term interventions to implement a disaster prevention strategy. this is not an optional choice, nor is it a choice of convenience, but it is a necessary choice if we want disasters such as those we are discussing today to have less dramatic effects. but there are also economic reasons, if we are to confine ourselves to this, which require the institutions to act in the field of prevention. if we are calling in the resolution for the commitment of substantial sums to repair the damage, we must shift our attention and our action to investments and initiatives to protect the land, reforestation and protection of vegetation, knowing that these represent a reduction in the cost of repairing environmental damage. disasters like this should teach us - should teach modern man - that not everything is controllable but that everything can be limited if there is adequate intervention. we must do so, mr president, also in memory of victims such as those who in recent days, in recent weeks, unfortunately, throughout europe have marked the existence of our regions.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i wish you a speedy recovery. i would like to express my immediate sympathy to all those affected by this natural disaster. sadly, the tragedies of large earthquakes continue. in situations like these, with extensive destruction of buildings and infrastructure and thousands of deaths, it is important to coordinate civil protection and rescue authorities ever better to avoid overlapping interventions and waste of resources. the european union has responded promptly in chile, but it is necessary to work with the local authorities to identify needs and coordinate aid effectively. this morning the press reported that half of the un aid to somalia had been stolen by local partners, some un officials and elements of the islamic militia. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. the generosity of the people must not be betrayed and a strict system of controls must be put in place to prevent dispersion or theft, especially when aid reaches countries that are very far away and whose institutions may be weakened by crises.
member of the commission. − mr president, we were all shocked by the scale of the natural and human catastrophe. through the rapid mobilisation of echo’s emergency response system and the eu civil protection mechanism, we were able to offer coordinated and practical help soon after the earthquake struck. as i have already mentioned, the assistance deployed or offered by a number of eu member states was also important. in addition to the humanitarian and other actions i have described, it is worth mentioning that on tuesday in luxembourg the european investment bank and chile – this was mentioned by an honourable member – signed a framework agreement to enable the bank to operate in chile. this development highlights the excellent state of relations between the european union and chile and our shared commitment to continuing to expand and deepen our partnership. it is also extremely well-timed because the eib can be an additional tool for the european union to work with chile in the medium- to long-term reconstruction efforts that are already getting under way. regarding the concrete question of the country strategy for chile and the committed eur 41 million. eur 25 million was spent in the first tranche; eur 15.6 million remains for the second. normally this should be divided 50% for social cohesion, 50% for innovation and competition. we have offered to switch this to reconstruction under review. no requests yet from the chilean authorities, but of course it could be directed under both headlines to reconstruction. the chilean authorities have not yet made any specific requests for the european union to help with reconstruction. as i mentioned, president piñera takes office today. he will surely give top priority to assessing and quantifying the damage and planning the massive effort that will be needed. the commission stands ready to consider any request that may be forthcoming. as i mentioned earlier, the fact that the european investment bank will now be able to operate in chile adds an additional instrument to choose from among those which are already at our disposal. it is also worth recalling what was mentioned too by some of you, that chile is a good example of development. it is actually a net creditor, unlike most latin american countries. the outgoing finance minister last friday highlighted the fact that, unlike during other tragedies that have befallen the chilean people, this time they and the chilean state have their own resources as well. so, to conclude, the european union – the people, regions and countries of the union – is standing shoulder to shoulder with chile in the face of this disaster, and that is how it should be in a civilised and human world.
ladies and gentlemen, before proceeding to the vote, i should like to make a brief statement, because today we are commemorating the sixth european day of the victims of terrorism. today we honour the more than 5000 victims in europe and express our solidarity with the many people who have been injured and have suffered the barbarity of terrorism. the bombings in madrid six years ago, on 11 march 2004, which killed 191 people from 17 countries, and the bombings in london on 7 july 2005 are among the worst acts of terrorism ever perpetrated on european soil. terrorism is an attack on all of us: it is a matter of the very fabric of our democratic society. that is why europe will always be united in the fight against terrorism, whether separatist, religious or political in nature. terrorism can never be justified in any way, for any reason. this european day gives us the opportunity to demonstrate that no terrorist or act of terrorism will ever be able to weaken or destroy our faith in key values such as fundamental human rights and democracy. (applause) i would like to thank
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for details of the vote: see minutes)
mr goebbels, it is past midnight. we've already got five minutes to wait. i think we can proceed to the vote. (applause from the left)
mr kelly, despite the fact that you did not register to speak before the first statement of the vote. he has a faculty of quite exceptional quality. next time, remember to sign up.
i just wanted to inform the president - i have already done so by letter - that the special committee on the financial crisis has unlawfully excluded the expert, the well-known demographer professor bourcier de carbon, without any justification, calling him an inappropriate person. i think we are dealing with a very serious case of exclusion for ideological reasons from a position of expert in a committee of the european parliament... (the president withdrew the floor).
understandably, in one minute we cannot say much, but for another minute i now give the floor to mr borghezio.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the ungovernability of the eurozone is growing every day, and this is a fact that we are all witnessing. the danger of sovereign insolvency has not been neutralized, but despite weekly meetings and summits of leaders and finance ministers, a clear solution has not yet been put in place. i wouldn't want it to be a mission impossible. the bailout of a member country may not survive a more than likely constitutional challenge in germany. these are all factors which we should take into account and which i do not think have been brought up in this debate. i would like to take this opportunity to remind you that the european union must, in the context of financial measures, give serious and concrete attention to the problem of the effective revival of the system of small and mediumsized enterprises which have been abandoned. how much of the huge funds given to the banks actually converges into the small business system, for example in my country, italy? how much of the structural funds? in some regions, only 1 to 2% of smes use it, as reported by the representative bodies of small and mediumsized enterprises. these are real problems, which concern the real economy, and which europe should deal with very seriously and urgently.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, if i were to be asked the question that is often asked in bars in the middle of italy, i would ask myself what europe is for, and the answer would come to me from the heart. what is europe for but to help greece in this situation? i don't think it's crazy to think that because it's in the dna, in the nature of our political project: solidarity is at the heart of our political project. but at the same time it strikes me that those who say they want to combat financial speculation are also trying to replace financial speculation with political speculation. how can anyone think of waging this battle against chancellor merkel? how can we think that the aim of trying to support greece in terms of solidarity is to attack another member state, because it simply reminds us that a policy of solidarity must be accompanied by a policy of responsibility? we have repeatedly called for this, and we have done so in unison, because we are aware that through solidarity and responsibility we can make the european political project accessible to all. we must be sure that what unites us is stronger than what divides us and, in the light of this, we must ask the commission, starting tomorrow, to be ambitious and to demand so much rigor from the member states that they are able to ensure solidarity with a project which in the long term will be able to translate the meaning of our european project.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the greek crisis is objectively the most serious problem facing europe and is undoubtedly caused by a lack of rigour in the management of public expenditure. but it is incomprehensible and unacceptable that the european institutions are acting so late to deal with this difficult time for a member state. and this delay has already produced negative effects: it has left room for speculation. the european council in brussels in december last year, in the context of the european council in brussels, called for the european union to take action to combat terrorism and to promote the peaceful and democratic development of the country. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it has also objectively undermined the fundamental value of solidarity, which is the basis and the foundation of the idea we all share of the european union. so we need to do this without any speculation. i would remind mr mauro that germany is without doubt one of the countries which has benefited most from the introduction of the euro and the relationship it has established with interest rates. we must act quickly to help greece, and europe must do so in the interests of europe.
member of the commission. − madam president, first let me tell you how impressed i was by the clear demonstration of solidarity and by the calls for responsibility from most of the speakers. this is exactly what we need at this moment, because it is very clear that a european problem needs a european solution. sometimes i wonder if we have not sufficiently learnt the lessons regarding the consequences of our course of actions, if we do not follow european solutions to european problems and try to find something specific even though we have to deal with it collectively. i think it is very clear that we are not just a group of countries. we are a european family, and if one of our family members has a problem we must definitely come to the rescue. the commission is therefore ready to propose an instrument for coordinated assistance to greece which will be fully compatible with european law, and i am sure that this is possible. i would like to thank all of you for support when it comes to the eu 2020 strategy. i cannot overemphasise how our citizens are expecting leadership at this moment, how they expect us to improve our performance and how they expect us to lead them after the crisis and set very solid medium-term strategies, as our international partners such as china, the united states, india and others do. the time has come for a decision. i was listening very carefully to the calls for better governance. i was listening very carefully regarding improved monetary and economic surveillance and that we have to do a better job of enforcing the stability and growth pact. this is exactly what the commission has in mind and these very proposals will come very soon. i would like to thank all of you who supported the commission on having very clear concrete goals for tomorrow’s european council conclusions. i think it is very important to have a medium-term strategy, but we have to have very clear indicators of where we are going and what our goals are. the commission therefore insists that the european council accept these concrete headline goals after the deliberations tomorrow and the day after. we need higher employment, we need a better gender balance and we need stronger education. it is very clear that we need to invest more in research and development, and it is absolutely clear that we need to fight poverty. therefore, the commission insists on solidarity, on responsibility and on having a concrete strategy for europe and european citizens. let me just express my hope that the positive spirit which was present here, which was clearly supporting solidarity and responsibility, will be just as present during our leaders’ deliberations tomorrow.
acting president of the council. - madam president, i think this was a very important debate: a debate on an issue which is at the centre of european interest at the moment - the greek issue - but, beyond that, on the economic situation of the european union as a whole. a debate which, by the way, mr audy, was attended by the council, as parliament has agreed: i represent the council presidency here. the council presidency has very clear ideas on the issue of greece, which is the most debated and the most referred to. firstly, europe is an integration of economic policies, we have integrated economies; secondly, europe is based on solidarity and therefore has a strong social content; and thirdly, europe is economic and financial stability. the three european features are clearly implicated in the greek issue. that is also why the three ways of looking at europe are taken into account and reaffirmed in the very important declaration made by the informal european council of 11 february 2010, one of the most important declarations that i believe has ever been made in the council, because it is a declaration that addresses the problem of greece by talking about solidarity and absolute political commitment to the financial stability of the euro area, the commitment to act when necessary to ensure that stability. i am convinced that this weekend's european council, which is the same european council that met on 11 february, will reinforce that stability, will ensure that stability. the european council will send a strong political message about europe, about strengthening its economy, about strengthening its currency and, therefore, about strengthening solidarity, because that is what the citizens expect, although it is true that some eurosceptics expect failure. that failure is not going to happen at the european council. you can be sure that this will not be a failure, but a reaffirmation of the political commitment to solidarity within the european union and the euro area. besides, he's going to look beyond. it's going to look at the short and the long term. there will be talk about how there will be a coordinated exit from the crisis, bearing in mind that there will be no withdrawal of fiscal stimulus at all until there is an economic recovery. and we shall also be talking about longer-term objectives, objectives of which i would like to highlight, above all, the element of economic cohesion, territorial cohesion, social cohesion, and ultimately solidarity. and where there will be a new form of supervision different from the lisbon strategy. there will be changes in this respect, clearly: the leadership of the european council was not in the lisbon strategy. the coordination of economic, employment and social policies that is in the lisbon treaty was not in the lisbon strategy. the importance of the commission's role in monitoring, monitoring, controlling and enforcing compliance with the objectives was not in the lisbon strategy. the incentive elements with the structural funds were not in the lisbon strategy. so there is clearly a very important breakthrough. finally, madam president, i would like to refer to the speech by mr garcía-margallo, which was the only speech he made directly to the spanish presidency, criticising, in his view, the way in which the european union is being run. i have to tell you, mr garcía-margallo, that the spanish presidency of the union, the council, is working closely, in a coordinated way, with the community method, with mr van rompuy, the president of the european council; it is working with the commission and it is working with the european parliament, also, closely, to get the essential objectives through. you have referred essentially to the economic issue. i would like to ask you whether you think that, for example, taking a decision such as that adopted by the european council, with the participation, of course, of the council presidency, on europe's political commitment to the financial stability of the euro area is not leading the european union. i would like to know whether you think that leading the european union is not contributing to a debate this weekend on nothing less than the europe 2020 strategy, which has, by the way, received the majority of support, in general, in the speeches that have been made in this parliament. and on governance as a fundamental element in that respect. i would like to know whether you think it is not leading the european union to have a negotiation with this house on the financial supervision package open at this moment. and i would encourage you, mr garcía-margallo, to work with this presidency so that we can reach an agreement as soon as possible between the council, which has taken a position, and the european parliament. we want to bring forward the directive on hedge funds during the spanish presidency of the european union and we want to bring it forward with the greatest possible agreement, with the greatest possible consensus. i do not think that should be criticised, quite the contrary. i also think it is the european union's responsibility to agree and work with the commission on the proposal that the commission is going to make on the coordination of economic policies in application of article 136 of the treaty of lisbon. or it is also to lead the european union so that there is a general policy for getting out of this debt, which is an essential debt in the european union in the face of the crisis and the social need to tackle the crisis and protect the most vulnerable people; an inevitable debt which must be tackled now, appropriately, in accordance with the treaty of lisbon, to get back on the path of the parameters of the treaty of lisbon. this is to run the european union according to the community method. that is to lead the european union, and to lead the european union is to have a european council this weekend which is clearly going to stand in solidarity with greece and with the greek government.
no, mr president, you cannot use the 'blue card' method, because it is reserved for members only, so the debate is closed with the minister's intervention. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the statements made by minister garrido and commissioner šefčovič. the new treaty of lisbon urges us to adopt rapidly a system of action in favour of the citizens' initiative, which is a testimony to the existence of a european people. it is well known that one of the strongest criticisms of the union is that it is not a fully democratic structure. the lisbon treaty sought to reduce the democratic deficit in many ways, including the provision that at least one million european citizens could submit a legislative initiative. the new institution, to be serious, will have to produce legal effects of a certain intensity. it cannot be the equivalent of an existing petition signed by a number of people. the difference must be clearly marked. it must therefore be governed by rules which prevent abuse and which nevertheless allow for the widest possible discussion, expression of informed and verifiable popular consent. but the most important aspect of the initiative under article 11 of the lisbon treaty is its symbolic meaning: the democratic deficit is countered not only by the decision-making power of the representatives of the people, but above all by the very existence of a european people which is not merely the arithmetical sum of the inhabitants of individual nations. so, the aspect that i consider to be of great importance in the discipline that we are prefiguring has two aspects: the first concerns the subject, which must be - as someone has already said - a european theme. the second is the distribution of the minimum number of subscribers in a significant number of member countries, with an appropriate proportion of each country's voting power. i hope that the new rules will help to make the french, the italians, the germans, the spanish and others, especially european citizens, heard.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am sure that this right of initiative granted to european citizens by the treaty will help to bring people closer to europe and to the european institutions, certainly more than the costly communication campaigns financed by the union, which have so far produced only modest results: and let's see the voting percentage to confirm that. this initiative is undoubtedly a further strengthening of democracy, because it allows citizens to propose laws directly. in other words, it is a form of direct democracy alongside parliamentary representation. this is an opportunity we cannot afford to miss. the commission must make this right of initiative simple, understandable and accessible, helping and accompanying citizens from the initial stage of the process, at the time of collecting signatures, for example in defining the admissibility of their proposals. a practical contribution to european democracy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today is a great opportunity: the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to assert a value, that of the instrument of democratic participation offered to citizens through the treaty of lisbon. the fact that this is being discussed after only a few months is in itself a value which must be safeguarded. i am convinced that a crucial step will certainly be to define precisely and precisely what is meant by a significant number of member states. we must use a criterion which combines, on the one hand, the desire of the citizens to participate in the institutions and, on the other, the desire to make this instrument democratically valid. the procedures are certainly simplified, streamlined, agile. i have been to a number of schools in recent weeks and have been given a great deal of time to listen, but above all i have become very aware of the growing role that young people want to play in this europe which is also changing through the treaty of lisbon. so transparency, objectivity, transformation to make this instrument a tool at the service of the community, but at the same time a tool at the service of the institutions, and parliament is called upon, in this, together with the commission and the council, to decide precisely on simplified procedures.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it is clear that china has no intention of negotiating or having a dialogue on tibet. china's involvement in international trade, the olympics, the changes that have happened in the past in leadership in beijing have not led to any substantial policy change. in the meantime, the battle between david and goliath continues, particularly with the very worrying demographic changes in the demographic balance in tibet and, when necessary, with military repression, as happened two years ago. in particular, what we consider to be a heritage of humanity, namely tibetan culture and spirituality, is being dispersed. certainly the chinese communist party understands very little about spirituality and cultural specificity. on this basis, if we accept what can be called a cultural genocide in tibet, we must be prepared to accept many more afterwards. we're not giving up. the first thing we ask of the chinese is to accept the tibetan world for what it is. they have accepted the specificity of hong kong as a country with two systems, let them accept that they have a country with three systems. china has the broad shoulders to afford it. we call on the european institutions, from mrs ashton to the council, also encouraging - as did the people's party colleague - the creation of the coordinator for tibetan issues, not to betray the expectations of the european citizens who have shown in so many ways their affection for the tibetan cause. it is a battle for freedom which therefore affects the identity of our continent. when it comes to whether or not to renew the chinese arms embargo, i think we should take this into account as well.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am appalled by the words of commissioner šefčovič: "we recognize the territorial integrity of china". this means that the commission recognizes china's right to occupy tibet, and this is very serious. as the tibetan people continue to be threatened, the dalai lama, in the 2008 memorandum and the related notes this year, confirmed the commitment to seek not separation and independence, but effective autonomy for the tibetan people within the context of the constitution of the people's republic of china: a policy of middle ground, mutual benefit aimed at preserving the tibetan culture of compassion and non-violence. the tibetan people are waiting for answers from the chinese government, such as negotiating with representatives of the dalai lama and accepting the request of the un high commissioner for human rights to send a visiting delegation to highlight the cruel reality. the european parliament should also listen to the tibetan community and, by increasing national synergies, could try to create a european coordination network to support the tibetan people, who, without strong intervention by the international community, risk being annihilated.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, sixteen convicted criminals have been elected to the italian parliament and in the last european elections italy exported three members who had been sentenced to life imprisonment. there is no law in europe that prohibits applications from persons who have been sentenced to a final sentence or are awaiting further sentences, but it is left to the discretion of the member states. the italian citizens have launched the 'clean parliament' operation. we therefore call on the committee on constitutional affairs to amend the act on the election of the representatives of the european parliament by direct universal suffrage by introducing, as a condition for eligibility for the european parliament, the absence of criminal convictions, even if they have not been proved. the chairman of the afco committee in the last parliament, mr leinen, had taken charge of this, but everything was deferred to his successor, mr casini, who has already said that the afco committee will not proceed. we would point out that it is not only the responsibility of the committee on constitutional affairs, but that the treaty establishing the european community itself, in article 190 (now article 223), provides that the european parliament itself must arrive at a uniform electoral procedure for the european union.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am in a listening mood this evening. i am listening to parliament’s priorities for 2011, just as i was listening to the guidelines the council accepted on 16 march. i can agree with the major points and i can agree that this is not the routine annual procedure for two reasons mentioned by parliament’s rapporteur. the first is that we are adjusting to the post-lisbon treaty environment. we have partly adjusted, but some work remains to be done. good cooperation between the institutions is needed more than ever, because of a single reading in parliament. what has been already agreed are some transitional period arrangements agreed at the november conciliation. a pragmatic timetable permitting predictability in the budget has been in place since 1975 and has also been confirmed. what remains are the modalities in the conciliation committee. this is essential now, given there is a single reading of the annual budget. therefore tomorrow, in the course of a trialogue, the commission is going to present the modalities for discussion and how we can agree the conciliation technicalities before starting the real procedure for 2011. the second reason for the annual procedure not being routine is that we are in a post-crisis europe where many member states are struggling with budgetary deficits and indebtedness, and many with even more challenging problems. therefore, more than ever, we should attach importance to sound financial management, to accurate forecasting and the rational implementation of a budget. the budget headings which appear to be under-financed are easy to detect. here i am referring to heading 1a and heading 4. it is due to this spirit of cooperation that we are able to modify the financial perspective four times in the course of a procedure, i.e. four annual procedures. our conclusions should be presented in the framework of a report on the functioning of the interinstitutional agreement which will be issued on the same date as the draft budget, 27 april, and sent to parliament. our rapporteur, not my rapporteur this time, but the parliamentary rapporteur, sidonia jędrzejewska, (my services are now being trained on how to pronounce the rapporteur’s name properly) rightly places youth and the opportunities for youth at the centre of her report. in other words the report on priorities is clearly upgrading heading 3. this concerns education and the place of youth on the labour market and is justified in this respect when we see the numbers of unemployed. but it is equally important that we should deliver promises of a recovery plan. that is also what is important for the citizens of europe. what is important is implementation. that should be at cruising speed by 2011. efficiency in administration is also important and in this respect i have to underline that the commission, despite the adjustment to the lisbon treaty, will not request any new posts this year. we are to adopt the draft budget in the college on 27 april and, as is the custom, present it immediately on the same day to the members of the committee on budgets in parliament. therefore i am looking forward now to starting the procedure for 2011. i am promising a good spirit of cooperation, which will really be needed this time, given the prototype procedures to be tested this year.
the 2011 budgetary guidelines are the first step towards the next european budget, a very concrete step. we have made a considerable effort in the committee on budgets to identify strong and recognisable priorities which give evidence of european action. the first priority is youth, not only because it is the resource to be used for innovation, research and development, but also because it is the fundamental starting point for long-term social policies. but it is also a strong priority for the 2020 strategy: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good example of the need to combat unemployment, climate change and, above all, the need to give real and concrete effect to this new strategy for the future, by providing it with adequate resources, without compromises and without cuts. but these guidelines are also a very realistic first step. the margin of manoeuvre of the financial perspective is very limited and this means that there are not enough resources to do what is most important: new shares. this is particularly sensitive on the first heading, the competitiveness, growth and employment heading. but there's another important theme: the budget also has a strong need for flexibility, to be able to respond quickly to the needs of citizens, to the needs of people, to changing needs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the appropriate resources, the sure implementation of future strategies, starting with strategy 2020, and then finally a definitive solution for a flexibility instrument which alone can enable us to respond to future challenges.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with the globalisation of markets and the serious crisis that europe is experiencing in the agricultural sector, one of the answers that the agricultural market can give is to focus on the quality of products. i believe that a good quality policy by the european union can increase competitiveness and add value to the economies of european regions, as it is often the only development option for many disadvantaged rural areas with limited production alternatives. by supporting the niche farming of these disadvantaged areas, we will create an economy and jobs in these areas. furthermore, a future quality policy must also be linked to the considerable potential of a modern, dynamic, rich and diversified agriculture such as the european one, capable of offering not only high-quality food products but also services of fundamental interest to a society in constant evolution. in my report i stressed the importance of keeping the three systems of registration of geographical indications separate, as they represent the link with the regional territorial realities of europe, representing its traditions, history, taste and exclusive knowledge handed down over time. i therefore consider that, by maintaining the two separate pdo and pgi systems, account is taken of the specific differences in the form and intensity of the constraints between the product and the geographical area of production. consumers often confuse the indication of the place where the food was processed with the origin of the agricultural product and are usually unaware of the functioning of the food chain. i therefore consider that only the mandatory indication of the place of production of the primary products can give the consumer real knowledge of the quality of the product he is buying, since it is subject to a production cycle which can strongly influence its characteristics in relation to quality and food safety. let us remember that it is our duty to protect what our citizens produce and eat, who voted for us. the other two points i thought it important to include in my report are: the importance of intensive consumer education and information activities to be carried out by the european union on the various european labels and the guarantee they provide, as well as the inclusion in international registers and the international recognition of the wto system of geographical indications. the latter point is of fundamental importance if we are to protect the counterfeiting of our high-quality products. i would like to thank commissioner cioloş for his presence, and remind him of the importance of adequately protecting the quality systems that are our future, and of the fact that the economy of disadvantaged rural areas can be revived by aid to the agricultural sector, which safeguards all those niche products that are typical of these areas and which keep the population linked to this territory that would otherwise be abandoned. this would support respect for the environment and the landscape and create, where possible, a tourism and food and wine economy linked to the various regional differences in culture and history of the european union. i would like to thank my colleagues for the support they have given me in the committee on agriculture and i hope that the european parliament will do the same tomorrow when it votes.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank the rapporteur, mr scott, on behalf of the ppe group, for his brilliant work and to stress that quality policies, in addition to having a great external value for what we can offer consumers, are also of great importance for what they can give producers. as you all know, competition can be exercised in a variety of ways in the markets. in a continent as large as europe, in a reality as complex as this, but with a cost of production factors much higher than that of the competition, it will be difficult to compete in terms of price and competition can only be exercised through product differentiation. it is precisely in the light of differentiation that we must see quality policy, which is able to offer a product and to bring to market a product different from that of the competition, which can be alienated even without a precise and specific reference at a lower price than that of the competition. we therefore support the continuation of this experience already started with community trademarks, stressing the need to maintain the distinction between geographical indication and designation of origin, but also stressing how, at the international level and in international trade negotiations, the union must play its part in defending designations and designation policies in order to avoid an inevitable policy of trademark switching which would otherwise harm our products. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fisheries policy is properly implemented. we have asked and will ask tomorrow, with a specific amendment, for parliament's vote on the possibility of indicating the origin of the raw material not only for fresh unprocessed products but also for single-ingredient processed products, that is to say those which essentially have the characteristic element in the raw material.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner cioloş, i thank you for the comforting words you have just said and i thank my colleague scott for the delicate work he has done on this important report. i believe that the report which will be voted on tomorrow is intended to protect and promote the crops and products typical of each territory and state of the european union. it is enough to think that i come from a state, italy, which has 4 500 typical products and this is a wealth of our territory that we absolutely want to preserve. we understand that the road to excellence is still long, but the message that needs to be conveyed is that only with the quality of european products will our farmers have the chance to compete meaningfully on the world market. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of agricultural products is not compromised. it is important to know what kind of processing is used in each crop and where the crop comes from. this is because it is right for consumers to know whether they are eating an apple grown, for example, in my own land in verona or in veneto and which has therefore, throughout the production chain, complied with community legislation, or whether they are eating an apple produced in china, where the only thing we know is that it has often not even remotely observed the rules and good practice observed by european farmers.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today a new phase of reflection has begun in europe on the subject of quality, understood not only as a guarantee for the consumer but above all as a lever to enable our producers to be more competitive in a much larger and more competitive market. our companies need to see the distinctive and qualitative elements of their offer recognised in the market. in this respect, as requested by mr scott's report - for which i am grateful - a step forward must be taken, first of all to ensure that more information is available on the origin, composition and characteristics of the production processes. at the same time, commissioner, it is essential that european legislation should enable the organizations designated to protect and promote quality products to plan their production and to adapt their production potential to market requirements on the basis of fair and non-discriminatory principles. we hope that the adoption of this report will mark the definitive consolidation of quality as the cornerstone of the european strategy for the agri-food sector and that the commission will give serious consideration to the proposals of our committee so that one of the main strengths of european agriculture can be turned into a valuable competitive advantage.
i have to say, madam president, the commissioner said today that these products with designations of origin are the tip of the spear. you're right about that. this is particularly true for products produced under difficult conditions, such as in mountainous areas, which require higher margins. this is why the 'from the mountain area' label is particularly important. i would like to make two points: i think that in the case of products like these, farmers should also be given the opportunity to organise themselves in interprofessional committees and in conservation consortia and to make market decisions there. this is not an infringement of competition, and if it is, it is certainly a much smaller infringement than the concentration of the retail chains in recent years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but the producers want and need these rules. we should bear that in mind in the debate and the vote tomorrow.
member of the commission. - madam president, i do not intend to go over all the issues raised here, especially since there will be a vote tomorrow, but i would like to emphasize certain points which have been raised several times in the speeches. i understand the concern of some members of parliament about the merger of the different geographical indication systems. i can assure you that my intention is not to destroy something that works, that works, something that consumers are attached to. the quality assurance system must be made more legible and consistent, especially as attempts are being made to secure recognition of these systems in international negotiations. so these systems must already be clear and simple to understand by our partners so that we can recognize them. so i don't intend to merge for the sake of merging. we will find a system whereby we can simplify without touching things that are already clearly identifiable by consumers. as regards the european quality logo, we must also discuss and see what objectives we want to achieve with this logo. is it only a matter of reflecting the respect of the basic standards that all european farmers respect and that imported products also respect? i would like to stress that all imported agri-food products must meet the same minimum standards of hygiene and food safety as our products. so we have to see how we can best differentiate our products from other products. should we have a european union logo or should we indicate the place of origin, the place of production? we have to see what the best mechanism is and we will think about it anyway. as regards geographical indications at international level, i should like to point out that my concern is to ensure that this system is recognised by our partners. we are trying to do this in the wto negotiations, but we are also trying to do this whenever we have the opportunity when we are negotiating bilateral agreements. we will therefore continue with this approach and, in addition, in my mandate, i would like to be able to strengthen the communication policy and the promotion of these quality signs at international level, since quality is an asset and can be an asset to strengthen our presence on the international scene. as regards the reserved words 'mountain', 'island' and so on, we are considering the possibility of introducing such systems. here too, we must see how to ensure that they do not constitute additional burdens for farmers who want to implement them. as regards inter-branch organisations and their role in the management of pdos, protected geographical indications, we have planned, particularly in the case of milk, since this is where most pdos and pgi concentrate, to carry out a study to see what the impact of the end of quotas will be on the proper functioning of these quality protection systems, and i hope that, on the basis of this report, we will see what measures will be taken if necessary.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you, commissioner cioloş, i would like to leave the ground very shortly. the land is where we harvest our products and which we must preserve for the future and for those who will have to do the same. so, starting from this simple thought, i would then move on to the producer, the one who works the land, who must also have recognition from those who will then benefit from the commercial product he will find in the supermarket or in some other store. it is therefore right to respect the land, the producer, the processor, if any, and above all the consumer. and for the consumer, i would make a proposal that i don't know if anyone will accept: why don't we ask the consumer what he wants to know? we will know what the label could be that the consumer can read and understand, perhaps making it much simpler than the complicated labels we have today. why should a consumer not know that he can choose between a litre of european milk and a litre of milk from brazil? he will decide whether brazilian milk is better than the milk supplied by the european community. however, i also want to and hope that this report will be useful for commissioner cioloş to give us further details to grow that chain of which i mentioned earlier: land, producer, processor, if any, and consumer; i think that the commission has a duty to ensure that the quality of the products we produce is not compromised by the quality of the food we eat.
in writing. the question of the quality policy for agricultural products was given an authoritative and unanimous answer by the european parliament's agriculture committee, thus bringing further completeness to the existing legislation. european agricultural producers are finally being recognised in community legislation on the quality of their products linked to the territory. it is a guarantee to protect them from the globalisation of markets and to ensure that the 'informed' consumer rejects those products without a mandatory geographical indication of origin, without clear certification, without compliance with marketing rules and protection against counterfeiting. the consumer will be able to make his purchasing choices in full knowledge of the rules accompanying the desired product. the european parliament will continue to fight for both agricultural producers and consumers to be protected. the quality of the products of some depends on the health of others. a further amendment on the protection of product specificities, which was approved by the committee on agriculture, recognises the regions' essential role as partners of producers, and in particular of traditional and organic products, and calls for the regions to be involved in the recognition and promotion of geographical indications, traditional and organic products. i am pleased to record the acknowledgement of this indication.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of the quality of agricultural products is of fundamental importance in order to inform the purchaser and the consumer of the characteristics of the product and to continue to ensure that the purchase of products from the european union is synonymous with high quality resulting from the different regional traditions of the community. over the years, the quality policy for agricultural products has evolved in a piecemeal way, with successive sectoral instruments. the globalisation of markets and the economic and financial crisis that hit europe did not spare the agricultural sector: the only way out is to focus on product quality and safety. the continuous pursuit of quality must be an essential component of the eu agri-food strategy on the world market. i also believe that the commission's proposal to introduce a european quality logo for products of european origin and manufacture should be given serious consideration. this logo would in fact represent a formal recognition of the efforts made by european farmers to maintain high production standards. finally, it is certainly desirable to simplify the legislation in order to reduce the bureaucratic burden on firms while ensuring that the quality standards achieved by european producers are maintained.
mr president, mr president trichet, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the king is naked! the gravity of the situation has been described in a timely manner, and now we must concentrate on the therapy, and the first point of this therapy must be european economic governance, without which the economic system will not grow and the debt will become less and less sustainable. greece must be supported and helped and a potential domino effect towards those european countries with economies characterized by a low level of competitiveness and high debt must be avoided. a genuine european governance must ensure three objectives: 1) a policy for growth; 2) the appropriate financial instruments to support this growth; (3) a policy for emergency management. i have heard many speeches this morning extolling the virtues of the euro. very well, i fully agree, of course, but why not think of the euro as a currency that not only saves us from inflation but, through a small virtuous and guaranteed debt, provides us with greater liquidity to launch a large european investment programme through eurobonds? as far as emergency management is concerned, i agree with the idea of establishing a european monetary fund, which would be a sensible solution. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be able to accept it. if europe does not show courage today, when will it have to?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in extraordinary times like the one we are living in, extraordinary measures must be taken. the budget for next year cannot be drawn up as if it were an ordinary budget. the economic crisis, unfortunately, is not over yet and we cannot ignore it. my group and i voted on the budgetary guidelines today, but in the near future we should have the political responsibility to take more important decisions. we must think about reforming the union's budget to enable europe to give a more decisive direction to economic policy. the internal market fully implemented, more resources for research and infrastructure, more investment in security and families must be the next objectives. the risk, otherwise, would be that the states would become increasingly conservative. in the end, we must be more european, less nationalist, and pursue a genuine european policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank mr scott for his work on this report. i believe that the protection and strengthening of a policy on the quality of our agricultural products is a priority for the european union, because it is linked to a number of other key issues at community level, such as increasing consumer protection, support for small and mediumsized enterprises, the protection of the cultural and traditional heritage of many european regions and the competitiveness of european agri-food producers on a world scale. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this vote has given us a tool for protecting consumers and for the proper promotion of agricultural products: a goal that has been sought for a long time. from now on, the origin must be clearly indicated on the label of meat, dairy products, fruit and vegetables, poultry and other products processed from a single ingredient. as regards animals, the place of origin may be given as a single place only if the animals were born, reared and slaughtered in the same country. this is an action which will give due recognition to agricultural producers and those who process agricultural products. we have shown that the european parliament is working on agri-food products with one objective in mind: ensure the quality and accessibility of information to the consumer. we have done a good job, and i congratulate the colleagues who have worked on this dossier.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr giegold's report offers some interesting insights into the current economic crisis, the worst since the european integration process began. i would like to point out that in my recent question to the commission i raised the question of the limits of the application of the stability pact, which in some exceptional cases, such as the implementation of public housing and social housing projects, could be exceeded. these works are intended for social purposes and are due to housing emergencies which are particularly acute in large cities and it may therefore be appropriate to address these kinds of problems by resorting to extraordinary measures. i therefore think it desirable that the commission should take a very clear position in order to give directives to the member states on the budgetary and spending limits imposed by the parameters of the stability pact on municipalities which, especially in the case of large municipalities, require major infrastructure investments.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this resolution refers to certain principles which should not be underestimated, such as the importance of combating discrimination against the roma and the need to integrate this minority through a comprehensive strategy. all these are good intentions, but unfortunately they do not take into account the state of degradation in which many roma communities in some member states, such as italy, are being plunged, often by their own choice. illegal activities (theft, pickpocketing, harassing begging, prostitution) increasingly aggravated by the exploitation of minors for these purposes, almost total lack of will to integrate and to live a civil life are the predominant characteristics of some roma communities in italy. these concerns should be addressed by fully implementing directive 2004/38/ec on the free movement of community citizens, which provides for the expulsion of community citizens who, after a three-month stay in a member state, do not demonstrate a certain income and refuse to embark on integration pathways offered by national and/or local government authorities. it is not enough to have a generic "integration", we need awareness programmes for roma communities on compliance with the law and social regulations and certain punitive rules for those who are called out of these paths. otherwise, the just call for respect for the roma minority risks turning into discrimination to the contrary, to the detriment of all those honest citizens who suffer the crimes and abuses of many roma. integration cannot exist without respect for the rules, and roma minorities are not exempt from respect for this principle. for these reasons i voted against the resolution, in disagreement with my group.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to european legislation which has set strict rules for the quality of agricultural products, the health of citizens, environmental sustainability and the specificity of crops, we can now proudly say that european agriculture is a model that is unrivalled in the world. and while we have to thank the farmers who have applied the rules with a great sense of duty, we must also ask why the european union sometimes tends to twist itself into bureaucratic labyrinths which risk obscuring this excellence and creating only great disappointment among the citizens. today our citizens start their day with a good orange juice without oranges, and at lunch they accompany the mozzarella pizza made with casein and a rosé wine made by mixing fermented red and white wine with added sugar. in the absence of affection, they can always fall back on chocolate without cocoa. even children are not immune to the consequences of schizophrenia that destroys our nutritional well-being: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's food safety is not compromised. citizens have the right to be protected: in order to enable the final consumer to make informed choices, we must insist that labels be complete and comprehensible and that consumer products, such as sterilised cow's milk or uht and dairy products derived exclusively from cow's milk, bear the indication of the place of origin of the raw milk used, in addition to other legal indications.
mr president, you have remembered the victims of the bombings in russia. recently, there have also been terrorist attacks in iraq, afghanistan and pakistan, countries which are also not members of the european union, like russia. i think it's only right that we remember those victims, too.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i listened with interest to the introduction by the president of the council and the vice-president of the commission and i must say that i am not convinced by the conclusions. i am not convinced by the conclusions of the european council in march because we are witnessing a weakening of the community ideal and method in the eyes of some of the protagonists of contemporary european history. and that is what concerns us in the light of what is happening in the world, indeed, in some respects it worries us. the greek story is just a paradigm of what europe should be, but in reality it is not yet. we therefore call on the european commission, the vice-president, who represents the president here, and the president of the council to take a strong political initiative, a legislative initiative: the commission must set the agenda and the council must ensure that we do not fall behind governments which are too often held back in their strength, in their incisiveness, by the impending electoral issues - yesterday in france and italy, tomorrow in the united kingdom and germany - which paralyse the action of governments. we need a role not only as a facilitator, mr president, but as a driver of this europe, and we appeal to your democratic and europeanist sensibilities so that this new impetus will be a harbinger of good for this europe. it is no longer enough to indicate the objectives, we must indicate the instruments. we agree on the objectives, as we agreed on the lisbon strategy. but what are the tools? do we want to get to a federal budget and call it that that is at least 2 percent of gdp? we want to use eurobonds, investments, european public bonds, to strengthen politically this europe without which we are going nowhere. in essence, we need to understand whether we can define the new europe and whether we can define - through a new relationship between the european political forces inside this parliament and outside - the real discrimination, the real borderline that exists in europe today between conservatives and progressives, between those who want a more politically integrated europe and those who want only a large enlarged market.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, economic policy coordination, growth, employment, innovation and social inclusion: these are the slogans of the new 2020 strategy, which, after the lisbon strategy, should lead europe to overcome the crisis that is lowering the portfolios and the spirits of europeans. ten years after the first dreamlike lisbon delirium, this is unfortunately the new recipe which is likely to become a slimming cure for the european economy. in fact, when we look at the main points of the new strategy, we find no new elements. if we have not yet realised it, the eu of the next decade will be the same europe whose failure we mourn today. and strategy 2020 is a failure because it is a failure of the modus operandi of this europe, which wants to imitate the planning management and statism that have long dominated national policies and that have penalized the spontaneous productive forces and local realities. today, europe is giving credit to the power of brussels and hindering the most direct and effective action of decentralized actors. i would point out, in the light of an opinion by the committee of the regions, that a truly innovative strategy should above all reverse the balance of power between the centre and the periphery. this is what europe needs: the commission has already made a number of proposals. this is the verdict that european history has announced: state centralism destroys wealth and social well-being when it wants not to support the economy, but to shape its face. beyond the chatter, the people, the young and small and mediumsized enterprises - that is, 99 per cent of the european productive fabric - do not want unrealizable community strategies for growth, but decentralization and freedom from the impositions of political and bureaucratic elites.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned. i would like to thank you, mr president, for your sympathy with the victims of the disaster that struck my region, my country, the autonomous province of bolzano-südtirol last week. the people of my region are indeed deeply shocked by this tragedy which has claimed the lives of nine people, mainly young people, and left many injured. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the railway companies are able to comply with the requirements of the directive, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take the necessary steps to ensure that the commission is able to comply with the requirements of the directive. mr president, thank you very much. i will pass on your words of condolence to the victims and to the people of my country. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to propose a brief reflection in this chamber, the democratic heart of the european institutions, on the final impact of european interventions on communities, territories and people. i believe that we must choose between pursuing a universalist and globalising vision or preserving the contribution and identity of each individual. i believe that the second option is preferable, a broad vision in which even the most particular dimensions arising from specific vocations and traditions have their place and dignity. consider, for example, the effects of the 2006 services directive, the so-called bolkenstein, on the italian bathing sector. i do not think that the culture and tradition of hospitality which has always characterized local communities should be sacrificed in favour of an allegedly more efficient global system. i believe that small businesses are the most genuine expression of the cultural identity of local communities at an economic level and that they should therefore always be safeguarded.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, allow me to react to the comments of the honourable members. i absolutely agree with mr leinen that the lisbon treaty brought in enormous changes. this was underlined by the rapporteur, mr szájer. i would like to assure you that we are fully aware of it and that we would use the procedure with the utmost respect for the legislator, because this is very important for our mutual relationship and for our good cooperative work. with regard to urgency and to urgent procedures, i would like to assure all of you that we will use it only in extreme, exceptional cases. we know that, if we abused this instrument, we would have a very difficult relationship, and it is definitely not our intention to do that. concerning the comments by mr coelho and ms lichtenberger, i would like to assure you as well that we will do our utmost to guarantee and to provide you with an early transcription of all documents at the same time as the council, and with all the necessary translations. we know the lisbon treaty introduced this very important change, that, when it comes to the legislative or financial matters, the european parliament is on absolutely the same footing as the council. moreover, we are planning to develop a new type of cooperation whereby the european parliament would be involved in the preparatory work of delegated acts, and we would like to do this on very solid ground. you will therefore also find the expression of this new relationship in the framework agreement that we are currently negotiating between the commission and the european parliament. moving to the comments by the earl of dartmouth and mr martin concerning the unlimited powers which this article 290 should bring to the commission, i do not think this is really the case, because it is you, the legislator, who will decide (or not) to delegate the power to the commission. it is you, the legislator, who will have the chance to revoke this power or to object to the proposals the commission will make. so i cannot accept that we are entering a grey zone, because i think the powers of the legislator are very clearly set out in the treaty, and the commission will, of course, respect that.
in writing. – firstly, i would like to thank mr szájer for the outstanding work delivered in so little time. the delegated acts will be of paramount importance for union law and the interinstitutional balance in the eu. therefore, it is fundamental that they are developed and decided upon in a fully transparent manner which effectively enables the parliament and the council to democratically control the exercise of the power delegated to the commission. to this extent, as advocated by the szájer report, some issues will be of utmost importance and require our stronger commitment. these include, inter alia, the possibility for the european parliament to revoke the delegation at any time and to make sure that parliament and council are conferred the same rights concerning their involvement in the process of delegation. finally, i would like to stress that it should be a priority for the commission to present all legislative proposals needed to adapt the acquis to the provisions of articles 290 and 291, including the aquis in policy areas which, pursuant to the lisbon treaty, are now subject to the codecision procedure.
in writing. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr leichtfried for the excellent work he has done on the report on rights for aviation security measures, which deals with one important point among many others: the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of consumers and passengers. there must be clear and transparent rules because if airlines charge passengers extra for security measures, i think it is appropriate that this information should be made available, making sure that passengers do not pay out of pocket. i think it is right that consumer protection organisations should be involved in the consultations so that they can check the real costs of the safety measures and compare them with the ticket price. this is the only way to ensure greater transparency and information for travellers.
member of the commission. − madam president, i am very grateful to the speaker and rapporteur. this is exactly what we have been looking for, so that is why i have on this point nothing to add because i think it describes exactly what is at issue. i will just concentrate on this measure revision, where we stand on it, because it is important to see it being the process. based on the green paper of april 2009, the commission has launched a public consultation with more than 300 answers and set up six expert groups, which help to work on the results of consultation in a new policy proposal. in a very short time, there will be a proposal to the college, a document that will outline the methodology for establishing the new trans-european transport network. so we foresee that this could be presented to the college on 5 may. then this methodology will definitely be presented to this house and the council. the commission will then engage in the preparation of the proposals for the new ten-t and its financing. so our expectation is that we will be able to adopt this in the college in the first semester in 2011. so i am very grateful to parliament for understanding the necessity for minor changes and i am looking forward to our having a very broad and strong debate on new outlines for the trans-european transport network in the months to come.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to express my gratitude to the members who, following the instructions of the rapporteur and also of the shadow rapporteurs, have made it possible to conclude the parliamentary procedure on this dossier quickly by refraining from tabled ing amendments which, although they were acceptable in substance, would have prevented the adoption of this text of codification. we are now in a position to give the commission the basis for the ten-t programming of the next decade. in order to facilitate a shorter time-frame, the rapporteurs agreed at the beginning of this dossier not to table amendments which had not been agreed with the council. the committee on transport has approved the technical amendments which have been studied by the legal services of parliament and the council, and the council has indicated that it can reach a conclusion at first reading if we vote in accordance with this line, which is fully acceptable. the few amendments tabled by the committee on transport and tourism are aimed at this end, and i think they are appropriate and useful in order to produce a coherent and correct final text. i therefore support the proposed amendments, whereas the amendment tabled by the green group, which was already rejected in the vote in the committee on transport, does not seem timely at this stage. the amendment, which is to amend a map of munich airport, is acceptable in content, but it may be put forward again when the ten-t review is discussed, which could happen before the summer because the work in the european commission is proceeding rapidly.
i have to say, madam president, the debate also touched on the brenner base tunnel and the new railway line from munich to verona. the fact is that this route is used today to transport about 50 million tons of goods by road and therefore this tunnel is urgently needed. but it has also been said in this chamber today that financing is difficult on both sides of the atlantic - both in austria and in italy. the italian side could easily finance this by shifting the toll revenue from the road, from the brenner motorway, to finance the railway line. but this requires that the concession for the brenner motorway is not put out to tender, as is now expected to happen under european pressure, but that the italian state is given the opportunity to extend this concession for at least another 50 years and not to give it to private suppliers. otherwise there will be no cross-financing and therefore there will most likely be no extension of the ten-t route on the italian route.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european shipping industry plays a key role in the globalised market. an importance which finds its foundation in the light of a significant fact: 41% of the world fleet is operated by the countries of the european union. however, as a result of the increase in state aid in the maritime transport sector from third countries, the competitive position of the european fleet is under increasing pressure. i therefore urge the commission to present as soon as possible the new rules on state aid, with a view to establishing fair conditions for international maritime trade. recent studies project that in 2018 maritime transport in the member states will increase from 3,08 billion tonnes in 2006 to 5,3 billion tonnes. i therefore agree with the report under discussion, namely that it is a priority to prepare european port infrastructure and capacity to support the growth of maritime transport. finally, i believe that maritime professions should be promoted more among young european citizens through appropriate information, which at present seems to be lacking. in my view, the growing shortage of professionals in the european shipping industry may contribute to its weakening over time.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disadvantaged. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's communication now proposes a new form of demarcation, based on eight different criteria, which should lead to a complete redefinition of these areas. the impact of these criteria is not known to parliament because the territorial simulations which the commission has requested from the member states were not available for this work and we have not had any insight into these simulations. i would like to sum up what we are proposing in this report: we believe that a uniform demarcation is both useful and necessary to ensure uniformity within the european union. we also believe that the compensatory allowance - which is the most important result of this demarcation, so to speak, because this demarcation is made primarily so that the compensatory allowance can be paid in these areas - is a very important element of agricultural policy and makes agriculture possible, above all, where it would otherwise be very difficult, in less-favoured areas and especially in mountain areas. but we cannot really assess the quality of these criteria, that is to say, whether they are working or not, because we do not have a simulation of the area at the moment. however, there are very real doubts as to whether the proposed criteria will be sufficiently precise. it is also necessary to clarify whether these criteria, which the commission is now proposing, really should be treated in this way, i.e. criterion by criterion, or whether a cumulation of these criteria may also have to be taken into account. disadvantage is often linked to several factors at once, and it seems to us quite reasonable to consider whether a combination of these criteria might also have to be taken into account. it is also necessary to consider whether subsidiarity should not be taken into account in this matter, that is, whether it is not necessary here too, that we should provide a rough framework with new criteria, but then give the member states and the regions the opportunity to make a fine-tuning. in conclusion, i believe that it is urgently necessary to consider transitional periods. this demarcation will result in some areas falling out of the demarcated areas and for this a sufficiently long transitional period is needed. i would like to sum up - and i believe this view has been echoed in the report - that the commission's present communication clearly needs to be refined and that it needs to be carefully reconsidered before it is implemented, because it will have far-reaching consequences for the farmers concerned. i would like to conclude by thanking the members of this house and the commission staff who have helped to draw up this report over the last few months.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank you, mr ashworth, for this excellent report. the common agricultural policy is a successful policy, but we sometimes cloud that success with excessive bureaucracy. this applies to the first pillar of the agricultural policy as much as to the second. but this is particularly true in small firms, where the ratio of the input of bureaucracy to the output of money is sometimes simply not the same. in the course of the review of the agricultural policy we will have to think about a small producers' scheme, about how we can find a very simplified method for such holdings, to which we often give premiums of a few hundred to a few thousand euros in total through various budgetary chapters, without losing sight of the objective and causing vagueness in the granting of contributions. it must be possible, and we must strive for it.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the situation caused by the volcano has been handled with delay and inefficiency. the first real operational meeting was held yesterday, monday: the volcano erupted starting thursday morning, so four days to make an operational decision. there have been perhaps excessive restrictions, it is true, safety first. but why ban flights to belgium when the cloud was in norway? why ban the flying of small single-engine piston aircraft at 500 metres when the ash was over 8 000 metres? the rule that we airmen have known for years has perhaps been applied, that the safest flight is the one that the pilot sees at the bar and the plane in the hangar, but this is not the way to deal with emergencies, so i think that, in order to ensure the safety of passengers and crew, these measures are fine, but they have been taken, precisely, too late in relation to the situation. so we must take account in future of the needs of safety first and foremost, but also of the needs which, in conjunction with safety, do not simply entail an indiscriminate blocking of flights, but measures which take account of the real situation, not the statistical situation, in order to allow a vital sector for the whole economy, because the consequences, the negative economic repercussions will not only be felt in the air transport sector, in the tourism sector, but in the whole economy, as we saw when the attacks of 11 september 2001 took place. the call is therefore to act quickly, to act seriously, to act with awareness.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commissioner and the spanish presidency minister for their speeches and for the work they have done. i think there is no question that the priority in this emergency was to ensure safety, and safety was guaranteed, because the balance sheet of this disaster, of this unforeseen and natural event is that no aircraft has been involved in an accident dictated by the presence of the cloud. the safety objective has therefore been achieved and we can only be satisfied with that. the problems remain today two: the first is timing. could it have been done sooner, could it have been done sooner? could it have been done sooner to intervene and reopen the area where air traffic was safer, given the enormous economic fallout, the economic impact of this disaster on air traffic and airlines? couldn't you have done it sooner? that would require answers. the second question: there are thousands of passengers stranded, forced to stay in hotels, to change... (the president withdraws the speaker)
in writing. president, the news has accustomed us to natural or man-made disasters that bring a nation's structures and society to its knees, creating emergencies in transport and supplies. funds from the community budget and coordination between various civil protection bodies are already operational, thanks to the experience gained. but an emergency like the one caused by the icelandic volcano had never been seen before. our citizens will not forget the airport signals with 100 percent of flights cancelled, the days of lockdown in transit areas, and the endless lines at stations, car rental companies and taxis. the airlines suffered the greatest financial losses. the citizens are being mocked: in addition to inconveniences and unforeseen costs which are difficult to recover, a possible increase in air fares as a compensation for the damage suffered. this assumption must be avoided. the european union will have to respond, as in the case of natural disasters, to the compensation of citizens who incur unexpected expenses to mitigate the inconvenience, and to airlines, avoiding the risk of configuring it as state aid, therefore illegitimate. the citizens must first of all be assured that the european union will assist them and protect them, directly and indirectly. many, so far, cannot admit it. we call on the european parliament, decimated by the absence of many members who were unable to attend, to adopt urgently a european action plan for coordination between national governments and institutions and a framework for the protection of citizens. this would provide a rapid response to the needs of the citizens which governments have not been able to meet individually today.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, enterprises, especially small and mediumsized enterprises, which make up 99% of the european production fabric, need four basic elements: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. we appreciate the work done by the commission to streamline european legislation by repealing 1 600 pieces of legislation during the last legislature, and we share the proposals put forward by the high level group led by edmund stoiber. another important factor for the competitiveness of enterprises is the situation of international trade. at this time of crisis it is important that the european union's trade defence system be strengthened. companies cannot compete with the social and environmental dumping strategies of some emerging economies such as china, where labour costs are very low, social protection and related costs are lacking, and environmental standards are high. another area where the commission should be more aggressive is the fight against counterfeiting and the protection of intellectual property rights. finally, i do not see any initiative in the commission's work programme to implement the guidelines laid down by the lisbon treaty in the area of cohesion policies. for the first time, article 174 of the treaty recognises the specific role of mountain regions, which represent 40% of our territory and over 90 million european citizens. i therefore ask you to include in the next legislative programme of the commission a proposal for a framework programme to support the development and safeguard of mountain areas and to exploit all the possibilities for the use of renewable energy that the mountains offer.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thanks also to the concreteness shown by the commissioners, much has already been done, certainly, and i think i can also say that we cannot be satisfied with: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the time of extreme emergency is probably not over yet. as the first day is spent starving, thirsty, and starving, more than a million people on the island have been left homeless and will soon have to deal with the rainy season and cyclones. what, then, is needed? as the commissioner has already said, we must intensify coordination between the institutions and link this coordination to a more fruitful relationship with non-governmental organizations, especially those which, by acting on the ground, are able to enhance the value of the haitian people, to involve the sense of responsibility of the haitian people. we all need to be aware that being the reference point for haiti and its people means somehow making them understand that we want to see the value and dignity of every person reborn, it means for them to see a hope for happiness reborn in the immense pain brought by the earthquake.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i look forward to the outcome of the donor meeting because the large sums made available are a good result but, more importantly, it was the main guideline for the use of the funds, that is, not just rebuild, but rebuild better. haiti must emerge from this crisis stronger and with more advanced public infrastructure and private housing than before the earthquake swept them away. we cannot think that reconstruction involves the restoration of the slums or of socioeconomic conditions as they existed before. this certainly requires money, but it also requires - the huge resources made available by the national and european institutions are only a first step - a long-term plan and strong and authoritative coordination. that is why, after having also criticised in this house some initial delays in which europe, in its delegated representation for foreign policy, did not shine with efficiency and immediacy, we today instead welcome the excellent work that our institutions are doing in terms of coordination, and we hope that along this line and on this commitment a long-term plan will be pursued, which through the authoritative presence of our institutions can be brought to fruition.
president of the commission. − i could never suggest that the commission go against the treaties, because it is its duty to ensure that the treaties are respected. what i am really asking member states to do is to respect the treaty, and all the institutions have to respect the treaty. the treaty strikes a balance and that balance has to be respected. it represents progress compared to the past, where we had completely different institutions to deal with what is in fact a very important common interest – namely the defence of european values in the world. i consider it possible, in full respect of the treaty, to achieve exactly what the treaty aims to achieve. that can be done in a spirit of good cooperation between all institutions and in full respect, of course, of our member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i come from the south of italy, and our economy is based on small and mediumsized enterprises, the textile, clothing and footwear manufacturing industry and agriculture. this type of industry is now in serious difficulty because of the invasion of products from china and asian markets. to produce a shoe in our country, in southern italy, costs 13 euros. when it comes from china, it costs 5.50 euros for the finished product. a baby's pajamas made by us costs 4-5 euros, when it comes from china it costs 1 euro. businesses are moving to survive or closing down, and when they do, thousands of jobs are lost and a consumer crisis is created, as well as a depletion of the territory. when i meet with entrepreneurs, they ask me: what are you waiting for, putting on the duties, putting on the taxes? because in china, production costs are low because children from the age of 12 work 10 hours a day, without social security, without health insurance, without health rights. i know that protectionist measures are not welcome, but what is the solution? president, when i meet with businessmen, what do i tell them about what europe is doing in the face of an irreversible crisis in which so many companies are failing, so many jobs are going up in smoke and entire sectors of europe, such as the poorest sectors, the south of italy, are in a serious and irreversible crisis? i wish i had some answers, mr president, and i would like to hear them from you.
president of the commission. − the issue of employment, as you know, is dependent on the overall economic situation. let us be completely clear about it. we cannot restore the levels of employment that we had before the crisis before we come back to more growth in europe. that is why we are concentrating our efforts on the new sources of growth and, in fact, trying to restore this growth that is critically important for the european union. that is our priority now. that said, there were some measures that were taken specifically for employment. we have some proposals in our eu 2020 strategy for new skills, for new jobs, for programmes for youth, but the basic thing is to restore the conditions for growth, including confidence in our economy. when it comes to the greek situation, as you know, a lot has to do with the confidence also in the future of the greek economy. that is why it is so much dependent on the correction of some fiscal imbalances.
president of the commission. - all the problems you have mentioned, mr. member, are addressed in the 2020 strategy. decent work, i had already spoken about in my political guidelines, as well as the existence of a real industrial policy for europe, not the old industrial policy, but a policy that aims to provide europe with a sustainable industry, a more modern policy, more oriented towards sustainability. as far as young people are concerned, we have at least two of the flagship initiatives devoted to them, namely youth on the move and new skills for new jobs. we have highlighted some of the objectives, for example in the field of education, the fight against poverty and the fight for social inclusion. this dimension is present in the 2020 strategy precisely because we consider that the fight against unemployment is now the first priority. i believe that the development of this strategy will enable us to achieve important results in the fight against unemployment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, unemployment has increased in all european countries in recent years, albeit with different elements, and is set to increase further. all economists agree that it will take at least two years for the tentative signs of recovery that have been seen here and there to become uniform and that, in any case, for at least 10 years the recovery will be so limited that no additional employment will be created. this means that we will have an increase in unemployment, with the loss of jobs of those who are currently employed, and at the same time we will have generations of young people who are not or will not be able to enter the labour market. i ask you whether you do not think it necessary, in the face of such a situation, to promote action to protect the uniform income in europe for all those who lose their jobs and to treat the issue of children as a kind of emergency and, therefore, to imagine a specific training measure that applies to them for as long as they remain outside the labour market.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union and latin america have long since developed a strategic partnership aimed at developing a fully-fledged bi-regional partnership. i would remind you that bilateral summits have been held regularly since 1999 and this year will be no exception to the rule. a new eu-latin america meeting is planned for madrid in may. it is therefore with pleasure and full support that i speak today in favour of mr salafranca's report. i join in the congratulations, the congratulations that have come from all the speakers, from most of the speakers, congratulations that are absolutely shared and justified: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as a member of the committee on agriculture, i would like to emphasize this last aspect of the economy, citing some data which show us how this is a major and rapidly expanding area of interest, with 600 million consumers and producing essential raw materials. recently, agricultural commodity prices in latin america have benefited from slight weather disturbances which have allowed a steady and abundant supply in many producing countries in the area and the general return of many investors. i would also remind you that the european union is the leading investor in latin america and the leading donor of development aid, with an investment forecast of eur 3 billion for the period 2007-2013. finally, mr president, i would like to mention the issue of climate change, which has recently been discussed in the committees responsible with the adoption of important reports, and to repeat here a part of this resolution which i fully support. we are therefore calling for dialogue and cooperation with latin america on the fight against climate change in order to accelerate the achievement of the copenhagen objectives, and cooperation with the major developing countries is essential for the achievement of the climate objectives that europe has set itself.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place in the first part-session in may. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on kyrgyzstan.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam high representative, there is a beautiful final page in the kyrgyz epic of manas (which is no small thing, 20 times longer than the odyssey and the iliad put together, which also gives us an insight into the history of this country), where the wife of the hero who embodies the whole people wants to safeguard her memory from foreign aggression, wants to protect her grave and decides that in the end the name on her grave must be that of the wife, instead of the hero manas, precisely to protect its integrity from enemy attacks. this kind of dedication to the collective good, to the people, should be what we expect from the new kyrgyz ruling class, which is not so new after all. of course, i would advise the high representative to adopt a constructive attitude, i would say a positive, albeit cautious, attitude towards the interim government, but to demand a series of reforms, a series of measures which must be clear. not only the international commission of inquiry into what happened, not only a clear road map for the restoration of democratic rules - since this interim government, by definition being interim, has no legitimacy sanctioned by the popular vote - but also reforms to fight decisively and effectively against corruption and to finally establish an independent judiciary in kyrgyzstan, which is far from being there. also, it is related to both the question of the judiciary and corruption, to reduce what is a bureaucratic nomenclature, a public administration that is absolutely oppressive. in fact, this is the first real test bed in a critical, emergency situation, such as the one kyrgyzstan is currently experiencing, of the new strategy for central asia of the european union. we must not allow this country, where the united states now has very little influence, to end up in the somewhat suffocating embrace of present-day russia, and i think that is therefore an opportunity for all of us to engage.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in kyrgyzstan is very important for the stability of central asia, a region in which europe has particular interests in the supply of raw materials and energy. after the riots of 7 april, conditions must be restored to bring about a democratic regime, compatible with the local situation, through free, legal and rapid elections. the fact that a large quantity of weapons has been stolen by criminal gangs is a matter of concern, with all the risks of fuelling lawlessness, armed conflict and terrorism in the region. europe could help with others, including the osce, to accompany the country's evolution towards stable, functioning, less corrupt and more democratic institutions, including through an election observation mission for the next elections. we must not, however, be under the illusion that a new constitution or a parliamentary system will be sufficient to achieve genuine democracy, which inevitably requires the political growth of citizens and a widespread awareness of the common law and the rights of each individual. we must take action in this area for a long time to come.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam high representative, the situation in kyrgyzstan is alarming to say the least, especially when we consider the statement by the former foreign minister that kyrgyzstan's destiny seems to be increasingly bent towards russia's economic and customs space. a week after the fall of the government of former president bakiyev, who fled his country by plane on 15 april, the country's final destination and future political intentions are unknown. what is clear, however, is the russian defense ministry's help in facilitating the evacuation of former president bakiyev after the population took to the streets to demand his resignation. a large number of weapons are in circulation in kyrgyzstan, a small country with a population of just 5.3 million, but the only one in the world to host both a us and a russian military base. the tensions are now spreading to neighbouring countries too, and the priority and opportunity which now presents itself and which the european union must take up is first of all to dispel a possible civil war and help the country on its way to a democratic parliamentary republic with a stable presidency within six months. all this, mrs ashton, you said, will be possible if we can make our practical contribution on two fronts, one diplomatic, but also - as you said, mrs high representative - on the concrete and material front, and our timeliness in providing aid that reduces and reduces any phenomenon of social tension will be decisive. mrs ashton, let us do it quickly and well, because this will be another important test bed for europe. this is not haiti, this is kyrgyzstan. at least here we try to get there on time.
vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, today i sit in the commission’s space as well. the honourable members have made a number of important points and i will try in the short time i have to capture and address as many of them as possible. mr brok, with mr tannock and others, talked about the importance of this being one of the poorest countries in central asia and, of course, one of the main recipients of eu assistance per capita. i could not agree more that social and economic development is essential as part of the strategy that we need to put forward. mrs swoboda talked too about the importance of making sure that what we have before us is a genuine political reform. we are working very closely with the un and with the osce. together the people who have been in the region in the last few days have made this point consistently that we need to see the importance of reform as central to what happens next and i agree completely about the political stability of the region. it is very important. we need to look again very carefully; there is a strategy for this part of central asia, it will be reviewed but i am looking at it in the context of the external action service and what we should be doing within this region to pull together the different elements of commission and council support. mr rinaldi and others too i think rightly described that we need to be cautious, positive and constructive in our attitude and i would agree too with a number of honourable members who talked about the value and importance of the rule of law. it is core to everything that we will do in the country to make sure that there is indeed the rule of law in operation and that applies in the legal system of course but also in the political and constitutional reform that is so essential. mr lunacek talked about the elections falling – i think that the actual words were used in the briefing i had – significantly short of the standards that we would wish to have internationally. and i think the elements which i would put into the mix of things would include financial support, of course, and i have mentioned the rule of law, political and constitutional reform and the elections and the link that we want to make economically too. one small example of that of course is that it is one of the great water-rich countries in that region, and it provides water to the regions, as honourable members will know. we have been assisting them with their water management for more than five years, and i hope that we will be able to return to that work which is so essential as soon as the crisis is overcome and we have a legitimate government firmly in place. those are just some of the elements that i would include. i think that we are probably right in the level of presence in the region. pierre morel has been there for several days. he has just come back. he will be briefing mr borys of the afet committee on 27 april to bring the committee up to date with all the events. we are in touch by text every few hours and we have spoken several times and he has been in touch of course with colleagues too. we have had a strong presence in him, i pay tribute to him and to his team for the work that they have done. the importance of democracy, as mr provera said, can never be underestimated, in my view; we have got to get beyond some of the issues that ms vaidere talked about: the instability, rumours, insecurities, the issues, which are clearly of enormous importance and as i have indicated we have set out what we wanted to do over these first vital few days which i hope honourable members will feel has been responsive. i think that the final thing that i would say is this that some of the current members of the government in formation are the former human rights defenders on the opposition who were oppressed by the former president and who were supported by the european union including of course members of this house. so, although, i do not have any illusions about the nature of politics in this country and indeed in the region i think that we have to try and give this government a chance to form itself properly, to agree to do the political and constitutional reforms, which are going to be so essential, to hold the elections it says it will have and if it is willing to do those things to support it now into the future. and on that basis i am very grateful for the comments which have been made and we will pursue the strategy as i have outlined.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place in the first part-session in may. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the popular uprising that broke out in the kyrgyz capital in recent days marked the beginning of the so-called 'tulip revolution' which in 2005 had opened up the hope of democratic change in the former soviet republic. the european parliament is following with concern the political crisis in this country, which has a crucial geo-strategic position not only for russia and the united states, but also because the eu has an interest in the stability of central asia, its political and economic development and interregional cooperation, also in view of the importance of central asia for our energy supply and economic and trade partnership. the risk of civil war and a 'second afghanistan' is to be avoided. we are following with confidence the diplomatic mediation efforts being made by the presidents of the united states, russia and kazakhstan, as the osce chairman-in-office, towards the interim government of kyrgyzstan to stabilise public order and constitutional legality, in order to bring about free elections and to settle the country's problems. as the chairman of the eu-central asia delegation, i hope that, also in the light of the recent ethnic clashes, all efforts will be made to contribute to national reconciliation and a lasting return to democratic life in kyrgyzstan.
the agenda includes the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the eu-canada summit.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam high representative, i think that the debate in this house will give great strength to your action in view of the summit in may. there is no doubt about the views that everyone has expressed: the importance of relations with canada, the importance of partnership, the shared values, a great democratic country with which we have a strategic need to relate. but there are some issues that have been raised which, in my view, on the basis of the mandate given to you by this house, are issues that must absolutely be addressed and possibly resolved, because it is the solutions that count, not the battles. the first is the need to insist on the principle of reciprocity with regard to the free movement of canadian and european citizens. i am not a czech, a romanian or a bulgarian, other romanian colleagues have spoken before me, but as a european citizen i feel equally deprived of my rights if european citizens cannot move freely in canada - i speak fast because you understand me, mr president, you say for translation, right - but i feel equally deprived if other citizens of other european countries cannot move freely in canada, while canadian citizens can move freely in all european countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have the opportunity in this parliament to say what we think, and i think we must move from emotion or emotion to action. relations with a great democratic country like canada must also allow us to raise problems and ask for moratoriums. i thank mrs ashton for what she intends to do and then report back to this parliament after the summit in may.
vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, this has been an extremely useful and valuable debate for the preparations for the summit. honourable members have covered a wide range of different topics and i shall not least be making sure that the two presidents – the president of the commission and the president of the council – who of course will be leading the european union at the summit, are fully aware of the issues that have been raised. i am very grateful for the helpful way in which members of parliament have given me information, and put questions on areas i have to confess i do not know very much about – for example on air transport, which i will have to find out about for them. i would like just to pick up on two or three of the key areas that were discussed. in the context, there seemed to be a general view among honourable members that this is an important relationship. perhaps some of the frustrations i felt in the chamber were because we recognise the importance of canada and the importance of the shared values that we hold. the frustration of those honourable members from the countries particularly affected on the visas question is therefore completely understandable. let me begin with trade, because quite a lot of the different contributions focused on that. we are right to go for an ambitious trade agreement. this will not be easy and from the very beginning – and i actually launched the trade negotiations – we recognised that, because of the particular interests of the eu and canada, this was never going to be an easy negotiation. however, we should be very ambitious on both sides. one example is intellectual property rights, where i am very concerned that canada needs to make sure it has a proper regime in place. i know that it is looking at that and that the discussions and the rounds so far have been extremely positive and constructive and things are moving at a good pace. i agree that we need to keep the committee on international trade fully informed and, as mr bradbourn said, those with a particular interest in canada also need to be clearly in the loop on that. there will be an impact assessment, which is already being worked on at the present time, and, of course, parliament will play its role in giving assent or not to the agreement when it is finally put forward. there is a very clear and key role for parliament there. all i would add to that are two things. one is that a good trade agreement actually benefits our citizens. that is what it is for. it is to make sure that for consumers there are greater choices and for workers there are greater opportunities. we need to ensure that all our trade agreements provide genuine opportunities across the european union. on the point on small and medium-sized enterprises, which i agree is very significant, i am reminded that one of the statistics that always struck me as being very interesting is that only 8% of our small and medium-sized enterprises actually trade, and only 3% trade outside of the european union. i have always felt, and continue to do so, that if we were able to increase those figures and provide opportunities – and government procurement may indeed be one of the areas where that is a possibility – then that is an opportunity in both directions for our small and medium-sized enterprises to benefit. a number of honourable members talked about the arctic, and we have had discussions about that in recent times in parliament. i accept that this is a very important issue, not least because it links to the other important issue i wanted to raise before i mention visas, which is climate change. as far as we are concerned, canada did belong to the group of countries that, in the copenhagen negotiations, did not, in our view, take us anywhere near far enough. we can debate copenhagen further – and no doubt in other conversations with the commissioner responsible there will be opportunities to do so. we were interested that, in the speech from the throne on 3 march, the canadian government stated that it fully supports the copenhagen climate change accord. that is significant, and what we want to do in the context of the summit is to encourage and urge canada to be ambitious, notably in increasing its mitigation target for 2020. the international carbon market is key in shifting investment towards a low-carbon economy, and part of what we are able to do in our bilateral relationship is to push forward on those strategic questions of investment, of green technology and of collaboration, in trying to support all the measures we need to take to mitigate the problems of climate change. the final issue – and there were many, but i just want to pick on three – and one which i of course wanted to raise, is the whole question of visas. this is extremely important and, as member states represented here through their meps have mentioned, there are three member states who are actually affected. there is a lot of work going on to try and resolve this matter. we have had a lot of dialogue with canada, a lot of the issues are well known and there are issues for canada to resolve in terms of the legislation that it needs to put in place for the future. honourable members were quite right to raise this question and it will be part of the discussions. the second expert working group meeting took place in prague to look at the issues particularly relevant to the czech republic, and that has been facilitated by the commission, so the commission is fully involved. i did pick up on, and will take away from this debate, the frustration of honourable members who have raised the need to work quicker and further to address this problem and to recognise what is absolutely the most significant point of this, which is that this is not a bilateral issue, but a european union-canada issue, and we need to address it as such.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place in the first part-session in may. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have heard that solidarity is the reason for this measure. in my humble opinion, one leg is missing, the leg of security. but, just talk to those who practice these issues, for example the police forces i am lucky to have made the trip on this occasion with the staff of the police forces, the carabinieri of the escort office of turin, i want to remember their names, romanini and tavano and they said to me: i am pleased to note that in many cases these asylum seekers present false papers, documents, there are cases reported by various police forces, various bodies. we are not going to be able to do that. i do not think that the security aspect is strongly emphasized in this document, but it is very important, because we must avoid contaminating a principle, an important institution of great humanitarian value such as the right of asylum, with the dirty interests of those who traffic in illegal immigrants and often use the asylum instrument to infiltrate people who have no right and have no relation to the person who is really being persecuted. second point: article 2 of the regulation states that the office will facilitate cooperation between member states for a better implementation of the common asylum system, including with regard to the external dimension. article 7 should specify this, but it does so only very vaguely, it says only that the office may establish forms of cooperation with third countries on technical aspects. i think we have to go a long way further and i wonder why we are not talking about it, why we are not looking at it. what's stopping him? i think it would be very important to filter, also to lighten the work and the situation of the countries that have to deal more directly, someone has spoken of the need for these countries, but these countries must be supported, and i believe that the establishment of offices in third countries, for example in north africa, in the sub-saharan area where there are many requests and many applicants. we should filter through there, with interventions that would also involve, perhaps by using our european union's external diplomatic service, the responsibility of certain third world countries, we should make them responsible for the asylum question. i think that these aspects are very important and we must not ignore them, nor must we forget the needs of the european mediterranean countries which are affected by these needs, not by words, not by sending some officials, bureaucrats we already have in italy, we need money, means, real support to deal with this situation. someone said: sweden is doing very well, yes, sweden, but very far from the needs of malta, italy, france, the mediterranean, that's where the problem is, and that's where it has to be addressed and the european union countries have to be held accountable honours and burdens, i mean, we who have the burdens should also have the means.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we must not be lenient in an office which has to support a procedure to ascertain the real conditions of asylum seekers. we believe that this is an important and useful fact, but it must ensure that asylum is granted more quickly to those who are actually entitled to it, and it must also ensure that those who want to abuse this instrument without having the right to do so are firmly punished, because it is obvious that not all those who are entitled to it do so. i would also like to recall very briefly what mr borghezio said: there are certain countries, italy, the south of italy from which i come, which are naturally the gateway for immigration and which see their territories, which have historically been dedicated to welcoming asylum seekers, as particularly committed. europe must take responsibility for this and those territories which are closest to the host must be territories on which the european union's commitments and efforts, including economic ones, are also concentrated.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too share the appreciation for mr kirilov's report, and i am sorry that he is not here today. the fact that the mechanisms relating to the regional development fund, the european social fund and the cohesion fund are being simplified further is a good thing, it is good for spending. at a time when these are also funds that are being used for anti-crisis measures, it is necessary to put the granting bodies in a position to spend everything, but this measure also removes an alibi. takes away an alibi for who? the regions, which are the ones spending the cohesion funds on the ground, for example, and which often fail to spend everything because they are not able to do so, but blame the far-reaching and excessive bureaucracy of european procedures as the cause of the lack of spending. today this alibi is dropped, today all the bodies which disburse the european funds are put in a position to... (the president withdraws the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i come from the south of italy. my region, our regions, base their production on mediterranean crops, oil, arable land and vegetables. the attention paid to milk and livestock farming has always attracted much of the attention of europe, of the commission, and attention must also be paid to mediterranean crops. i assure you that in our areas, in our regions, we are witnessing a phenomenon of abandonment of the fields, here we are talking about combating climate change, desertification, and for us desertification is substantiated by the weeds that grow where previously vegetables and fruit were grown, where there are olive groves that are no longer tended, land that is no longer ploughed. i will tell you that in 1995 olive growers were paid lit 170 000 for their olive oil, and at that time the euro was not in existence, which was around 90 euros. this year the olives were paid to the producers at 30 euros per quintal. 13 or 14 years have passed, and the price has dropped by a third. the oil is bought in bulk from our producers at 2 euros per litre, and this is revenue that does not even cover the costs, the farms are indebted to us because they are below cost. then we witness a strange phenomenon: wholesale oil is bought at 2 euros and we find it at retail, in the big distribution, at 2 euros or less. it is clear that the system of checks must be strengthened, and i shall be glad to meet you to raise the problem of updating regulation (ec) no 2568/1991, there are new systems of checks, we must fight against sophistication and adulteration, also to the benefit of consumers and production. we cannot think of nationalising aid in the next cap, we cannot think of reducing direct aid, because without direct aid or with a reduction in funds for direct aid our agriculture, that of southern italy, that of the mediterranean, is going into crisis. i would like to conclude by saying that those who now own land do not own it because they won it in a lottery, but because their father or grandfather left it to them, that they cultivated it, worked on it with blood and sweat and left it to their son. today, if you leave your farm to your son, you're likely to leave him a bunch of debts: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on swift.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i take this opportunity to stress the validity of your statement that the european parliament must not forget the role and significance of the importance of the italian language, of the use of the italian language, which has given so much to european culture. turning to the subject under discussion, it must be said that finally, after that strongly desired punchline by the european parliament, which on that occasion perhaps seemed not to fully appreciate the urgency, the drama and the need not to weaken in any way, for any reason whatsoever a fundamental need of the west and europe, that of defending itself against terrorism. it is absolutely true that there must be a balance, a proportionality, that the rights of citizens, the right to privacy, must not be sacrificed to an excessive extent and that this new formulation by the commission, which has accepted many of the most important remarks of the european parliament, must be guaranteed, as is the possibility for citizens to be able to appeal, both in administrative and judicial proceedings, against any decisions taken on the basis of the swift system. the guidelines of the negotiating mandate adopted by the commission on swift are therefore, in my view, to be considered as being substantially valid, both in order to ensure, as i have said, effective and necessary cooperation with the us authorities on the control of financial transactions in order to counter and prevent the terrorist threat - this is of course in the bilateral interest, because europe too must remember that it must defend itself against terrorism, we have had too many, even extremely serious, evidences of this - and in ensuring democratic control of the flow of data entrusted to the european parliament, which is therefore the most serious protection that can be configured for the personal data of european citizens and the protection of their rights to take their seats at all appropriate occasions, and in the acceptance of many instructions given by parliamentarians, and this speaks volumes about the longstanding and important role that the new european treaty gives to the european parliament. we must also remember that the agreement provides for reciprocity from the united states in the event that the european union succeeds in putting into operation a european programme for the control of financial transactions in the fight against terrorism. europe must take action, but it must not always be a laggard. it must take action and give urgent input and guidance itself. the same reasoning applies to the pnr system, which will be discussed later: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat terrorism.
in writing. the commission proposal provides member states with the means to combat crossborder vat fraud effectively by supplementing and amending the current regulation, creating a legal basis for targeted cooperation to combat fraud, namely eurofisc. tax fraud has serious repercussions on national budgets, undermines the principle of fiscal justice and can distort the conditions of competition. we must not forget that the public authorities are obliged to compensate for the resulting loss of revenue by increasing the tax burden on companies that comply with their tax obligations. the fight against tax fraud throughout the eu must be aided by action by the states. the aim of the proposal for a regulation is not only to enable the correct assessment of this tax but also to ensure that it is applied correctly, in particular in community transactions, and to combat vat fraud. the proposal introduces a number of improvements to the exchange of information in general, by better defining the cases in which member states may conduct an administrative enquiry, and by specifying the measures to remedy a refusal to carry out an enquiry.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that the estimated financial impact of the irregularities, although established, has decreased from eur 1 024 million in 2007 to eur 783.2 million in 2008 (the decline affected all sectors, except direct expenditure and the pre-accession funds). i wholeheartedly support the work of the commission and would like to stress that the fight against fraud and corruption is a specific duty of the european institutions and of all the member states. in view of the particular economic situation affecting europe as a whole, i agree with the need to safeguard the financial interests of the union and to combat organised crime, which, according to national indicators, is strengthening its capacity for collusion within the institutions through fraud against the community budget. i therefore believe that it is essential to establish an effective legal instrument to improve administrative cooperation against harmful tax practices and to allow the internal market to function properly. in this connection, i support the proposal for a council directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation, stressing the importance of extending the responsibility of the member states to the quality of the information contained in the databases.
in writing. - i congratulate the rapporteur and colleague david casa on the important work he has done so far. my group has always been committed to supporting small and mediumsized enterprises, which are the real engine of the european economy and which we politicians have the task of reviving. i particularly support the possibility, proposed by the commission, of granting the supplier/provider of services the right to pay vat only when payment for the supply has been made. i also agree with the principle that electronic invoices should be treated as paper invoices. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the community's small and mediumsized enterprises, and i am glad that the commission has taken this step. i therefore hope that these measures will be adopted as soon as possible within a wider framework of support for small and mediumsized enterprises which need to operate in a more favourable economic and fiscal environment.
in writing. − airport safety and transparency of charges to consumers, to raise standards and levels: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the rights of passengers in respect of aviation security measures. the current systems for covering aviation safety costs, which are regulated at national level, are not always clear to end-users, who are often not even consulted before the establishment of rights or the modification of a system of charges to be borne by them. the report suggests, among other things, that passenger and consumer protection associations should be involved in the discussions between the safety management body and the airlines, so that the cost of safety measures can be set correctly and compared with the price of the air ticket paid by the end user. i welcome another point in the report: the commission has also proposed that the directive be applied only to airports in member states which de facto impose security charges, and not to those where no such charges have been imposed. for these reasons, i am voting in favour of the report.
in writing. the european regional development fund, the european social fund and the cohesion fund have proved to be very useful instruments for territorial development and for dealing with the consequences of the economic crisis which has been raging for some time now on the european and world scene. in this connection, i welcome the proposals to simplify the procedures for the release of funds and to facilitate payments to beneficiaries of the various programmes implemented with the funds. i also support the provision of an additional prefinancing allocation for 2010 for those member states most affected by the crisis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr szájer's report, and i would like to thank him for the excellent analysis he has carried out in the light of the new features introduced by the treaty of lisbon. given the wide and varied implications of 'delegated acts' in the legislative procedure, i find it particularly welcome that parliament should wish to subject these delegated acts to very precise and clear conditions in order to ensure that they can be subject to effective democratic scrutiny by this house. i think it is also necessary, and above all, to verify in practice how this new system will work, and if necessary to make corrections.
in writing. the eu's maritime territory is the largest in the world. the maritime economy employs five million people and 5% of community gdp comes from industries and services directly linked to the sector. the data and facts clearly show that the sea is a crucial resource for employment and growth in the member states, especially when one considers its international dimension and therefore the level of pressures it is called upon to withstand in terms of global competitiveness. in this respect, the report is very positive in calling for national incentives for the maritime sector and for greater regulatory coordination at eu level, which could lead to a streamlining of bureaucratic procedures that would improve the competitiveness of the whole sector. i share the approach of the report and will therefore vote in favour of it.
in writing. − the collection and preservation of the artistic and cultural heritage of the member states of the european union through the implementation of a multimedia platform which, by collecting images, sounds and videos, represents a library, a museum and an archive together: this is the aim of the europeana project, which was launched in 2008 and which today connects europe's artistic heritage, thanks to the contribution of over a thousand cultural institutions. although it still has many weaknesses, including the publicity and communication of the project itself, the problem of networking orphaned or copyrighted works and, last but not least, the heterogeneity, both in terms of objects and materials made available, europeana takes advantage of new technologies to achieve the large-scale digitisation of europe's cultural heritage, drawing not only on resources at community level but also at national and private level. the preservation of artistic memory and the preservation of the cultural manifestations and specificities of the individual member states are fundamental issues in order to ensure that the new generations maintain their identity. that is why i am in favour of the draft report.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report emphasizes the importance of the new common agricultural policy for all the member states. the protection of areas with natural handicaps will be one of the main points of the policy that the eu will implement together with the regions of the member states, thus applying a real subsidiarity, which the eu commission must take into account, especially when identifying the parameters that will delimit these areas. the commission must not overlook the fact that the recovery of the lessfavoured areas will help farms affected by the great and serious crisis of this period and the maintenance of the environment in good condition. i would remind you that this must be not only theoretical but also real and practicable by allocating adequate funds for the protection and rehabilitation of these areas. in this way we could recover and encourage the economic development of agriculture in all those areas which have the potential to grow and produce market-driven products, such as the agricultural production of local foodstuffs and the protection of the landscape and the environment. i thank mr dorfmann and congratulate him on the excellent report.
in writing. − making the european knowledge society the most competitive and dynamic in the world was one of the ambitious but unfulfilled objectives of the lisbon strategy. the adoption of the 2015eu agenda, which is synergistic in content with the eu2020 strategy, aims to put the citizen-consumer at the centre of community action to ensure that all citizens in the member states have adequate computer skills to ensure access to the main information and communication technologies available today. the digital literacy path of european households, students, businesses and public administrations will be linked through different types of interventions, addressing both the issue of the definition of digital rights and the implementation of infrastructure for the enhancement and extension of broadband, especially in rural areas. i am in favour of the report because i firmly believe that the future of training must necessarily be accompanied by the strengthening of digital training and the interoperability of computer skills.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which i share both in spirit and in substance. i believe that, by its approval, the european parliament has given a clear signal of political leadership in creating a digital agenda, a real coherent and comprehensive european plan, a fundamental step for the europe of the future. digital development, on the one hand, represents a great opportunity for growth, but on the other hand, it is also driving major social change, significantly affecting the behaviour of citizens. the important thing is to ensure that this change can lead to a more democratic, open and inclusive european society and to a prosperous, competitive and knowledge-based economy of the future. this can only happen if, as the report points out, 'the individual is placed at the centre of political action'. it is important to focus on the deployment of broadband and the application of digital technologies in key market sectors such as energy, transport and health. but this policy action must set adequate safeguards to avoid a further gap between: large enterprises and smes; public authorities and the private sector; between areas of high population concentration and rural, island and mountain areas; between national and cross-border electronic commerce.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, europe remains a world leader in advanced information and communication technologies (ict). the world wide web, the gsm standard for mobile phones, the mpeg standard for digital content and adsl technology are all european inventions. maintaining this leadership and turning it into a competitive advantage is a very important policy objective. over the past four years, ict policies have confirmed the driving role of these technologies in europe's economic and social modernisation and have increased europe's resilience in times of crisis. all eu member states have developed ict policies and consider their contribution to growth and employment at national level to be essential in the context of the renewed lisbon strategy. despite this, in the first decade of the 21st century the eu is lagging behind in ict research and innovation. it has therefore set up ambitious research programmes to make up for this backlog and to support forward-looking research and development activities. i therefore wholeheartedly reiterate my full support for these actions, convinced that europe can once again be the leading and driving force in this very important area.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report with a reservation, which is also a welcome sign for the situation of the so-called tango bonds, which casts a shadow over relations with argentina. the determination to promote relations with the countries of latin america could be a way of resolving the whole issue of the rights of european investors in a respectful manner.
acting president of the council. - mr president, i would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that the european parliament, through my dear colleague and friend, mr íñigo méndez de vigo, agrees with the view of the european council that the proposed reform of protocol (no 36) to the lisbon treaty - which is essential for the members to be able to come to this house before the next elections - does not require the convening of a convention, since it is a small reform. it is paradoxical in this case, because mr méndez de vigo and i were part of the convention which drew up a constitution for europe. in this case, the aim is to avoid this procedure, since we are dealing with a very small - indeed, formal - reform of the treaty of lisbon. i am glad that in this way - if the european parliament approves the proposal put forward by the rapporteur, mr méndez de vigo - 18 members from 12 countries - the united kingdom, slovenia, poland, the netherlands, malta, latvia, italy, bulgaria, sweden, france, austria and spain - will be able to come as soon as possible after the intergovernmental conference and the ratification procedures in the 27 parliaments of the countries that make up the european union have been completed. and so the citizens of these countries will be even better represented in the european parliament. i am therefore very pleased that there has been this report by mr méndez de vigo and that it has been adopted in the committee on constitutional affairs in the sense that it proposes. i hope that this too will be widely accepted by the house and that we can see as soon as possible here in this european parliament those 18 members who are not yet here and who meet the requirements of the treaty of lisbon.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank mr méndez de vigo for an excellent report. i am also happy to be able to inform the european parliament that the commission adopted a positive opinion on the opening of the igc that will examine the necessary treaty changes that would endorse an additional 18 meps. the european council had requested the opinion of the commission acting on the proposal from the spanish government and, since the spanish government’s proposal reflects the long-standing political agreement to bring the additional 18 meps into office without delay, the commission has recommended opening an intergovernmental conference as soon as possible. in line with the spanish proposal, the commission has also stressed in its opinion that the igc should be limited to dealing with the issue of the additional meps. i was very glad to see that that report by mr méndez de vigo was supported by a strong majority in the committee on constitutional affairs, and we hope that it will be the case in parliament’s sitting tomorrow. i would also like to express the hope of the commission that the limited treaty changes to be discussed at this igc will be agreed quickly and the ratification by member states will allow the additional 18 meps to take up their mandate as soon as possible.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, very briefly, because the committee i chair has found a very broad agreement, which coincides with what has already been said, so there is no need to make the debate too difficult. the problem that arose and that we discussed in committee was above all this: both the 1976 electoral act and the lisbon treaty provide that the members of this parliament must be directly elected by the people of the various nations. this is a problem in cases where the electoral system by which the members of this parliament have been elected does not allow candidates who have not been totally successful but who have been successful enough to be admitted later to this parliament. some electoral systems allow this, others seem to not: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. after long discussions, my committee felt that this was the right position: so let's stick to the things that have already been said. i should like to say that i myself tabled an amendment which provided for the appointment of observers in the interim period before the possible election of new members of this parliament: although this amendment is still under discussion, we shall have to vote against it - even though it is my amendment - because the compromise amendment provides for the rapid, immediate integration of this parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a mystery how the council could have taken such a light-hearted approach to such a subject. i hope that this unpleasant incident will not be a source of unpleasantness and that it will not jeopardize the credibility of our institutions and our project. let me give you a very concrete example. italy is called upon to elect a member of parliament in a possible by-election. but is it more serious to go to an election round where we will probably have a turnout of no more than 5% of the voters or to proceed to reconsider the ranking of the last election in 2009 to sanction the election, however, of a deputy who was elected by universal suffrage? in any event, there is no need to aggravate the situation further: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. i too would stress the importance of all 18 members coming together to the european parliament, so as not to upset the delicate balance between the nationalities present in the house. it is a question - i repeat - to be resolved immediately: i find it unthinkable that new members will not be elected to parliament for the remainder of the 2009-2014 term. it is therefore urgent that the recommendation and the report in question be adopted so that the amendment of protocol 36 to the lisbon treaty can be given the green light, without going through the convention, but by proceeding directly, as the rapporteur proposes, to the convening of an intergovernmental conference. we must take the shortest route, because at this point there is little to discuss: we must turn the page and start anew in a constructive way from an event that, unfortunately, is very negative.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 6 may 2010 at 11.00 a.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that we are here discussing and examining the content of this 2020 strategy, while workers are dying in athens and a country, a people, is on the verge of collapse, offers a rather significant, i would even say grotesque, picture of european politics. it is very strange that in a situation like this the commission does not feel the need to make a profound self-critical reflection, because it is not that it does not see that this crisis situation, which has now reached what i would call dramatic levels in some respects, is the result of many serious mistakes, as the failure of the lisbon strategy shows. a lot of mistakes and a defendant named euro. you say in all your statements that greece is an isolated case: but you will also tell us when - we hope not - there will be a similar situation for example for spain, will it be another isolated case? we're a little tired of hearing the justification of isolated cases: there were also isolated cases of subprime mortgages. it is hard to believe and very difficult to accept the commission's indications, when the european union has not yet decided to clean up european banks and tell savers, producers and the real economy how much crap there is still in european banks, in order to make a strategy. let us bear these points in mind and remember that a serious strategy must start with the real economy, with the small and mediumsized enterprises, and must of course give workers a role, through participation, a role of responsibility.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in order to tackle the employment problem in a constructive way, there are three key words in community action: we need to react, evolve, protect. to react, that is to say, to abandon the celebratory tone of euro-propaganda in order to tackle the problems affecting the citizens of the european union in a concrete way, ensuring a direct link between the world of training and the needs of the market and the territory, by re-skilling the perception of manual professions among young people. to evolve, i.e. to make the eu 2020 strategy a positive synthesis between the demands of enterprises and those of workers, in favour of a labour market in which the flexibility of contract forms responds to the instability of market demand. protect, that is, give jobs to those who have lost them, first of all to our citizens: the member states must therefore evaluate their immigration policies in the light of the real need for immigration and, with 23 million unemployed, the possibility of blocking immigration from outside the community for a few years should be considered. i see no other way to protect our jobs, our social system. it takes concreteness, courage and decentralization.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must confess my concern about the june summit, because i do not see anything new in the debate that could make a positive correction to the recommendations of the spring council. those recommendations were already disappointing: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. disappointing also because they ignore the crisis: 10 points are indicated generically, without a logical connection between them; i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. and here we are again. nor do i see any real will to choose priorities. europe's problem is its level of competitiveness in the global system. it cannot therefore ignore social cohesion, one of the fundamental factors of competitiveness. without cohesion, no country - and even less so supranational aggregates - can stand on the world market, because they would have conflicts within them that would cause them to lose competitive positions on a daily basis. on the other side is the theme of innovation: it is not enough to invoke it, we must set precise targets, which are not there, on the amount of resources to be allocated to innovation, both in terms of products and processes. only quality, both in civil life and in work and, on the other hand, in the production of goods and services, can restore europe's ability to compete after the very heavy effects of this crisis. i would add, finally, that there is a problem that is never brought up: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the member states do not talk about this, they have removed the theme: the poor management of the greek crisis is there to prove it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is beginning to outline a new alternative scenario to conventional vehicles: that of electric cars. i thank the spanish presidency for this, for having included this important subject in its political agenda. i also thank commissioner tajani for the things he said. many member states are investing and pushing towards this kind of clean technology but it is clear that europe needs to rethink infrastructure, the setting of safety standards, charging systems and interoperability. much progress has already been made to reduce co2 emissions from cars, and i hope that innovations will soon make electric cars affordable transport for the general public. new technologies need to be supported, especially when the challenge is to have a low-carbon economy. however, any facilitation should not penalise the traditional car system, which has done and is doing a lot for sustainable mobility.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr under-secretary, dear friend tajani, thank you for your report. the electric car project dates back to 2006: all the institutions agree on its validity. the european parliament already expressed its views on this in 2008, the commission launched a communication on the smart car in 2006 and today our commissioner is taking it seriously and concretely in order to make it effective in the coming period. i heard president zapatero, when he presented his programme, mention the electric car as a fixed point of the spanish presidency's six months. i would like to stress that in the face of such availability, there must also be concreteness: concrete for propulsion, concrete for equipment and concrete for charging, which are the elements that make the electric car work and make it work for the future. the advantage of electric vehicles is that they can move around easily in traffic and do not require the construction of large infrastructures, which is why i consider this matter to be strategic. the commissioner also takes account of the fact that hydrogen-powered prototypes are no less important. hybrid cars are already on the market today, and hybrid is both electric and hydrogen: hydrogen with methane and the others with the traditional diesel or petrol components. alternative fuel cars are the winning idea. the evidence is that in 2008 their market share almost doubled. but we're still at 1.3% of enrolments. we are on the right track, but the times are tough for innovation for the environment and for jobs.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i will be very brief because i agree with what both commissioner tajani and president garrido have said. i shall not even be speaking at all, because you, mr president, have set the tone for what should be developed in the european union. let me get this straight. i also leave out the environmental issues, the electric car, the employment problems. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the debate on the future of the european union, but that it should be involved in the debate on the future of the union. the real issue for the european parliament to debate today is what kind of europe and what kind of confrontation we want between the european countries. when i see, especially in my committee, the tendency among european countries to compete by lowering the tax burden, i say that we have probably not understood anything about what europe should be. thank you, president garrido, thank you, commissioner tajani: the european union is a major player in the world economy.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, last april the commission adopted the communication on 'clean and energy-efficient vehicles', or the european strategy to encourage the development and deployment of 'clean and efficient vehicles' with low carbon and pollutant emissions. the commission considers that the measures under assessment are proportionate and appropriate to the objective pursued. it is clear that the majority of the vehicles of the future will continue to be powered by internal combustion engines and that this should not be penalized but accompanied in its positive developments. i therefore believe that attention should be paid to certain factors of interest to the european industry in this field: pursue leadership in the process of infrastructure standardisation, especially in terms of timing compared to our competitors china, usa, japan, korea and avoid the proliferation of actions to favour privileges for electric vehicles in terms of available funds, urban access and public procurement. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today, 5 may, is the day against paedophilia and child pornography in italy. it is an important moment of reflection, established by law 41 last year, on a phenomenon that is unfortunately widespread and increasingly important, because today the pedophile is not the elderly man who patrols the child in the park but a person who moves within an internationally organized structure and uses the most modern technologies, such as the internet. so today young people, children, girls, are no longer safe even within the walls of their homes. i therefore hope that the european union will also want to dedicate a day to this important reflection and that is why i have submitted a written statement, calling for the establishment of a rapid alert system which will enable the police forces of the individual member states to work in an organised manner and exchange a rapid flow of information. i hope that this initiative will be supported by the majority of my colleagues.
in writing. the effort is planetary. however, despite continuous improvements in knowledge and advances in treatment, the fight against cancer remains an open challenge. we must continue to meet this challenge by bringing our best resources together, because the effects of this disease are devastating in terms of mortality but also in the psychological, social and economic aspects involved. it is clear that the approach must be comprehensive, both in terms of research and treatment and in terms of prevention. critical mass must be created, creating the conditions for the result of one to become the common heritage. this is why it is important to create a european partnership against cancer that facilitates the exchange of information and coordination between individual member states. it is not just about networking in research and health, but also in education, nutrition, communication and the environment. seeking the participation and contribution of civil society, including with the aim of disseminating healthy habits and lifestyles. only by applying this methodology, supported by adequate financial coverage, can the commission's ambitious target of reducing the burden of neoplastic diseases by 15% by 2020 be realistic.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report which we are debating tonight and voting on tomorrow is part of the great work of implementing the 20/20/20 package, which i believe will remain one of the most far-sighted and significant achievements of the last european legislature. if i were to be told what i have to salvage from the previous five years, i would definitely put the 20/20/20 package at the top of that list. i think it is also important to say that there has been a lot of work on this report, both by the european commission - there is a communication and a recommendation on the basis of this report - and also by the itre committee and others, who have enriched the initial report with many suggestions, additions and amendments that enrich our work. i think there is only one point on which there is still some disagreement in parliament - which i hope will be overcome by tomorrow's vote - and that is the more or less binding nature we want to give to the contents of this report, and i would like to stress the work that has been done with great agreement and unanimity. information and communication technologies (ict or tics) are an important sector, even as a weight in the european economy: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. they are also very important not only for what they represent but also for the contribution they can make and the significant and essential role they can play in trying to achieve that transition of our economy towards an economy which is still developed but which emits less and emits less carbon and therefore is less polluting for our future and for the future of the new generations, and which can, in short, constitute, not in words but in concrete deeds, the changes which can lead to the way of producing, the way of living, of moving and of consuming in our reality, to that industrial revolution which for many will characterize the very future of social and economic life, not only in our continent but in the whole world. how can icts make such a major contribution to the transformation of our economy? first, by changing the sector itself: the report wants to show how this industry can first look inward, to see how you can make communication devices, microelectronics and so on, consuming less energy, that is, being more efficient inwardly. then they can make a very important contribution in the large sectors, housing and transport, two sectors - i repeat the commission's data - where increased efficiency, according to the european directives and the target data, even from 20/20/20, can lead to a reduction, since today transport consumes 26% of energy in europe, 40% is consumed in homes for heating and cooling, depending on the season, and these emissions are also very high and can lead to very significant efficiency ratios. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am thinking of the entire banking sector, the public administration's reporting sector, the entire e-government and all the services, in essence, that can see, by applying these technologies, savings in carbon emissions but also savings in time, with the consequent improvement in the quality of life of citizens and the quality of social life. so a significant point: but i think that this report will be all the more significant if parliament approves it as binding tomorrow. i would like to give just two examples, mr president, if i may. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the data. just yesterday, in this house, 700 mayors from europe, in the presence of our president and the european commissioner, made a new pact that wants to work on the efficiency of cities, where 70% of european citizens live, which can therefore make a great contribution to efficiency and better economic and social development.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when the treaty of lisbon is making europe's role in the lives of millions of citizens more significant, the challenge of transparency and legality is becoming crucial. the report we are presenting is therefore the result of a strongly united effort. the work was measured first against the scenario outlined by the court of auditors for 2008, in which the financial impact of irregularities decreases from over eur 1 billion in 2007 to eur 783 million in 2008. the decline is in all sectors except direct expenditure and preaccession funds. criticism also remains in the structural funds. but absolute amounts and values alone do not tell us where emergencies are lurking and where the situation is under control. the analysis and meetings held in recent months have led us to give priority to two needs: on the one hand, it is urgent to give member states greater responsibility for detecting fraud and irregularities, and for sharing the information needed to combat fraud, waste and distortion in spending and revenue collection. on the other hand, it is important to put forward proposals and working hypotheses to make the implementation of interventions in the member states more effective, with administrative procedures and management strategies that focus on the quality of projects and their impact on the living and working conditions of european citizens. to achieve these objectives, we propose that parliament should insist on certain priorities: first of all, we propose that olaf draw up 27 files, analysing with due care the strategies followed by each member state in combating fraud and irregularities in the use of european resources, with a precise map of the authorities responsible for controls in each country and data on the quantity and quality of the controls carried out and on their effects. secondly, to reduce irregularities and to improve regulations considerably. we are embarking on a programme of legislative and regulatory simplification: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. the fight against corruption, financial crime and distortions in public procurement must also be stepped up. in this year's report we are making progress on this point, which is shared by the whole committee. the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the implementation of the programme. from the relationship between the eu and tax havens to databases on beneficiaries of eu funds, the report makes a real contribution to increasing the transparency of spending and strengthening anti-fraud and anti-corruption strategies. finally, as regards olaf, it is essential to ensure its full operational independence, the full cooperation of the member states and an adequate human resources strategy, which it desperately needs. the debate and the debate in europe must be kept alive and open in order to give life to a single european prosecutor's office. in conclusion, i believe it is crucial that we fight together for transparency and efficient management of european resources. we must avoid any form of exploitation in this respect: the commission has also been active in the field of the environment, and has recently launched a new initiative to combat pollution. we must instead look with clarity at the problems and distortions which still persist in the various sectors of community finances and make further progress on these issues, with determination, by improving the efficiency and transparency of financial management. i believe that by making this effort the various community institutions will really take a step forward towards building a stronger, more integrated union that is better able to meet the needs of its citizens.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we know how difficult it is for the different religious communities in nigeria to coexist peacefully, particularly in relations between christians of different confessions and muslims. as the resolution we are voting on recalls, the situation is very serious: more than 14,000 people have been killed in religious or ethnic clashes since the end of military rule in 1999. there's been over 500 deaths in the last three months. nigeria is not the only country where clashes and tensions between religious communities are unfortunately taking place, and it would therefore be desirable to have an annual report from the european parliament on religious freedom in the world, which would deal in a structured way with a problem which is crucial for the stability of many countries. i refer to a statement by commissioner rehn, to which i renew my personal esteem. he said nigeria is a very poor country: nigeria is a very rich country, but it is plagued by a corrupt and incompetent ruling class that has plundered the country's resources, impoverishing millions of its citizens. so the real problem is this, and the social and economic renewal of this country, like many other countries in africa, is through a new ruling class that is attentive to the needs of the citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, violence does not solve conflicts but only increases their tragic consequences. violence, even before it is wrong, immoral, unjust, inhuman, is not appropriate: it's not convenient. it is the least effective means of finding a solution to the problems affecting an entire region, because if the element that triggers violence between the christian minority and the muslims is not only religious fundamentalism but the lack of economic development that leads to resentment and tension between different ethnic groups, what the european union, together with the african union and the entire international community, must make clear to a federal government in nigeria, which is responsible in many ways for this situation, is precisely that promoting civil and peaceful coexistence between the different ethnic groups and communities in the country is a factor of convenience for the collective, for the convenience of all the people. in addition to the establishment of an appropriate system of investigations, as many have called for, and the repression of those responsible for the immense bloodshed of the last few months - or i would even say of the last few years - it is necessary to take every possible initiative to support inter-ethnic and inter-religious dialogue on the one hand, and the formation of a new ruling class on the other, as many have called for. with this resolution we want to make it clear that the resolution of conflicts, especially in a country as rich in raw materials - especially oil - as nigeria, would require better access to resources and a better redistribution of resources, and i believe that the agreement signed on 12 december 2009 between the federal republic of nigeria and the european commission will be able to give a great boost in this regard. security is therefore at the heart of the country's many problems today, and the main threat is not the conflict itself but the reasons that created and generated the conflict: this is where action is needed to guide nigeria towards genuine economic and democratic development.
in writing. for too many years, we have been hearing from this land, rich in natural resources as well as humanitarian tragedies, news of mass killings and ethnic clashes arising from economic and social reasons. i would just like to recall, however, the words of a catholic missionary who lived and worked in nigeria: father piero gheddo recently pointed out that only 20 years ago relations between muslims and christians in the central and northern parts of nigeria were certainly difficult and marked by forms of anti-christian discrimination; but never before has there been such mass violence as we have seen in the last decade. the cleric said that if the situation has worsened in recent years, it is also because "the influence of islamic extremism expressed by the ideology of al qaeda has spread throughout the nigerian federation, particularly in 12 northern states that have adopted sharia as state law". we therefore agree that the different ethnic groups in nigeria find in their different religious affiliations the ideal pretext for unleashing mass violence against each other. but let us remember that the populous african state, which has also suffered from political instability for years, has been the scene for years of a wave of islamist extremism that we must not ignore.
mr president, this is an oral amendment to paragraph 13, which calls on the commission to examine the current situation: the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the situation is not further aggravated by the situation in the region.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, climate change is a real threat which we must be prepared to face, despite the differentiated impact it will have on our territories. the deterioration of ecosystems will have a serious impact on the health of our economies and the health of european citizens. we have called for climate diplomacy and climate justice in the past: now we have to build them, speaking with one voice. i am convinced that the european union must maintain a leading position in the fight against climate change and that any delay in taking action will increase the environmental, social and economic costs immeasurably. first of all, we must recognise the central role of local and regional authorities and the need to coordinate with them the ecological and economic innovation facilitated by technological progress. with the adoption of the white paper, we call on the commission and the member states to promote public-private partnerships to help finance all initiatives related to adaptation plans. every square metre of our territory will have to be treated to conserve the soil, to retain water to prevent erosion, and then to feed the groundwater, including by direct reinjection of surface water. a systemic approach, including renewable energy, will be needed for adaptation to be possible. finally, i would like to thank all the colleagues who have contributed to the success of this report. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, yesterday we did well to conclude the first reading of the dossier on the tens. however, in the face of this reformulation, this codification, there is a very important aspect which concerns the entire reprogramming of the ten networks in the next decade. this reprogramming must be completely re-thought, simplified and rationalised within europe, so that interoperability is really implemented and then, as we are living in an unfavourable economic time, we must think about the implementation of this network, or part of it, and not just with the budgetary resources at our disposal, but think about a different path, and make sure that we can get the economy going again through these networks. so today it is more urgent than ever, beyond the step taken yesterday, to try to commit ourselves to this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european regional development fund, the european social fund and the cohesion fund have proved to be very useful instruments for territorial development and for dealing with the consequences of the economic crisis which has been raging for some time now on the european and world scene. in this connection, i welcome the proposals to simplify the procedures for the release of funds and to facilitate payments to beneficiaries of the various programmes implemented with the funds. i also support the provision of an additional prefinancing allocation for 2010 for those member states most affected by the economic crisis.
mr president, i voted in favour of mr szájer's report, and i would like to thank him for the excellent analysis he has carried out in the light of the new features introduced by the treaty of lisbon. given the wide and varied implications of delegated acts in the legislative procedure, i find it particularly welcome that parliament should wish to subject these delegated acts to very precise and clear conditions in order to ensure that they can be subject to effective democratic scrutiny by this house. i think it is also necessary, and above all, to verify in practice how this new system will work and, if necessary, to make corrections.
mr president, i voted in favour of parliament's resolution on the new european digital agenda because i believe that ensuring easy and affordable access to broadband for all the population must be a strategic priority for the european union. the use of the internet is to expand and develop the freedom of expression of citizens, to encourage participation in democratic life and to enable the dissemination of knowledge and innovation. i would like to stress that the spread of broadband in europe would guarantee much greater freedom of information. we must not forget, as eurostat points out, that there is also a two-speed europe, perhaps a three-speed europe, when it comes to the spread of the internet. and italy, especially in some of its regions, as well as greece, romania, bulgaria and portugal, are the least developed countries in this respect. it is no coincidence that in the ranking of press freedom for 2009 compiled by freedom house, italy is listed among the partially free states, last in western europe together with turkey, seventy-second in the world together with benin and india and preceded by the tonga islands. i also hope that, thanks to these resolutions and the principles they set out, the italian government will decide to unblock as soon as possible the investment of 800 million euro which was planned to reduce the digital divide in italy and which, according to the statement by the under-secretary for the presidency of the council, mr letta, is not a priority at the moment. i would point out that the quality of service in italy is insufficient for today's needs and for years consumer associations have complained that access costs are among the least competitive in europe.
mr commissioner, water is a commodity for all and cannot be a commodity for just a few: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the italian delegation to italy of values felt the need to vote in favour of the text because it represents our values, those values which lead us to affirm the necessary inseparability of the public nature of water with respect to its use. that is why i would like to remind you that we have already proposed, in recent days, a collection of signatures for a popular referendum against the privatization of water, which is gaining a lot of support in our country.
mr president, we are about to ban cyanide extraction techniques because - as my colleagues said a short while ago - they have caused and are causing serious environmental damage and serious health risks to people and animals. our vote was intended to express the clear will of the italian delegation to the alde group of the italian values committee not to negotiate fundamental rights such as the health of citizens and the natural environment, by subjecting them to the economic interests of a few plant manufacturers. in this connection, i would like to say that since these are gold mining plants and certainly not potatoes, the companies that own them could well allocate adequate economic and financial resources to research into technologies compatible with the environment and the protection of health.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and in particular mr peterle, the rapporteur, on the work they have done. this development of a partnership in the fight against cancer, on such a sensitive subject as the one we have been discussing, is a credit to the whole of parliament. according to the world health organisation, about 2 million european citizens die of cancer every year, and about 10% of these deaths are caused by exposure to carcinogens at work. i am convinced that the target of reducing new cases by 15% by 2020 is also to be achieved through joint action with the member states. europe must also show that it is united in this area. i believe that article 66 is a response to this fundamental principle, which can guarantee the availability of medicines to everyone in every country. that is why, mr president, i voted in favour of the report.
mr president, i am voting in favour of and supporting the excellent work carried out by mr vittorio prodi, as a culmination of the important work done by the european commission. i represent the southern part of italy, a region in southern europe, part of the mediterranean basin. our people have given us their trust and deserve not to be unprepared for the effects of climate change in our regions, in our lands which live mainly on agriculture, fishing and tourism, and which are largely made up of the weakest communities and social groups. so i think that solidarity between the different countries and regions is essential, also in response to this new strategy we are putting in place. obviously it's very difficult to talk in this confusion, but i'll conclude: i welcome the implementation of the solidarity fund instrument, of which i am the rapporteur for the epp, as further support for a timely and effective response to the effects of climate change. it's really impossible to talk.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the two reports drawn up by mr mendez de vigo. my satisfaction is twofold: the committee i chair has moved swiftly to reach a general consensus which has enabled the agreement to be adopted today in plenary by a large majority. i therefore supported the idea of a vote against paragraph 5, which i introduced in committee with an amendment of my own, to emphasize that the appointment of the new 18 members must be as consistent as possible with the provisions of the 1976 electoral act, which requires direct elections by european citizens. it is therefore necessary to give preference to an automatic method which allows the entry into parliament of the candidates who were the first to be voted out of office in the last european elections. however, if the national electoral system does not allow this calculation, a designation by the national parliaments may be used.
in writing. − the political crisis in kyrgyzstan is yet another episode of destabilisation in central asia, an area which we know is crucial for europe given the importance of the issue of energy and raw materials supply, and for the usa and russia given the country's strategic position. unfortunately, this is the disappointing outcome of the 2005 revolution, which had raised hopes of a concrete change in the political dynamics of the small former soviet republic and which, together with the events of the same years in ukraine and georgia, seemed to herald a more serene geopolitical future for the whole area. unfortunately, today kyrgyzstan is reaping the bitter fruits of a change that has not come, and the resolution we are voting for contains the necessary and appropriate indications that this parliament must give to the community bodies which will be directly concerned with the kyrgyz question in international and diplomatic fora. the hope is that the commission and the council will work consistently on these indications, and above all with a timeliness which, in other circumstances, also recent, has unfortunately been culpably lacking. i am voting in favour of the joint resolution, with the best wishes that european action will have a positive impact on the stabilization of kyrgyzstan.
in writing. - the impact of the measures discussed must be assessed by analysing the statistics recorded by the commission. in fact, in 2007, 72% of the european population lived in urban areas, which are the key to growth and employment. cities need efficient transport systems to support their economies and the well-being of their citizens. about 85% of the eu's gdp is generated in cities. urban areas today have the task of making transport environmentally sustainable (co2, air pollution, noise), competitive (congestion) and social (demographic change, inclusion, health). meeting this challenge is also essential for the success of the eu's global strategy to combat climate change, achieve the 20-20-20 target and promote cohesion. nine out of ten citizens in the eu believe that the traffic situation in their area needs to be improved. i am convinced that coordinated action at eu level can help strengthen the markets for new clean vehicle technologies and alternative fuels. this can encourage users to eventually opt for cleaner vehicles or modes of transport, to use less congested infrastructure or to travel at different times. i am convinced that these initiatives are aimed at improving our habits in the medium and long term, in line with the economic and industrial development of the union as a whole.
in writing. − in july 2002, the commission adopted a block exemption regulation on motor vehicle distribution agreements, replacing regulation no 1475/95. the main objective of the commission's competition policy is to allow the firms concerned to benefit from a safe zone by adopting block exemption regulations, with the aim of ensuring effective market surveillance. block exemptions therefore contribute to legal certainty and the consistent application of community rules. i would like to point out that the importance of this discussion is, in fact, to outline the basic guidelines of the future legal framework which, after the expiry of the regulation, should govern agreements relating to the distribution of motor vehicles and the related after-sales service. therefore, in defining the appropriate scope of the block exemption for the automotive sector, i urge the commission to take into account the conditions of competition on the relevant markets and the need to make a basic distinction between the markets for the sale of new motor vehicles and the markets for repair and maintenance services and/or the distribution of spare parts. i would stress the importance of supporting such proposals which discourage individual initiatives in favour of competitive competition from retailers and repairers and encourage the development of the sector.
in writing. − the importance of new information and communication technologies (ict) is due to their crucial role in triggering a real revolution in the world of science, not only bringing about the knowledge society but also making a sustainable approach to the use of natural resources accessible. in the light of these considerations, in the specific case of new techniques for energy efficiency, it cannot be ignored that icts are an important resource to ensure that progress goes hand in hand with respect for the planet, ensuring that the cost-effectiveness of savings can benefit both the private and the industrial sphere. the energy saving policy will determine the sustainability of the european social model, which is why i have decided to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. − the european union has for some years now been setting itself important targets in terms of energy saving and reducing carbon emissions. the information and communication technologies (ict) sector is undoubtedly a means of improving the energy efficiency of individual member states. ict can help to control and manage energy consumption, provide new applications and technologies to improve the use of natural resources and cleaner production and industrial processes. the large-scale public consultation launched by the european commission has clarified how icts can contribute to energy efficiency. the european commission has calculated that ict-based systems are capable of reducing energy consumption in buildings - estimated at around 40% of total european energy consumption - by up to 17% and carbon emissions in transport by up to 27%. an urban organisation with the help of ict can substantially reduce its energy impact. the dissemination of good practice and the awareness of local decision-makers about the potential of icts should therefore be promoted.
in writing. − the european union has reaffirmed its commitment to reduce carbon emissions by 20% by 2020. it will be difficult to maintain this commitment without exploiting the full potential of icts. ict can in fact reduce co2 emissions considerably. ict is responsible for 1.75% of carbon emissions in the services sector in europe and produces 0.25% of emissions related to the production of ict-based equipment and consumer electronics. the remaining 98% of emissions come from other sectors of the economy and society. it is therefore desirable to harmonise the methods of measuring and quantifying energy performance in order to have data to develop innovative energy saving strategies and to avoid the phenomenon of 'green misinformation'. in this context, i would like to highlight how icts can play a key role in achieving key objectives, as they are present in almost all sectors of the economy and contribute more than 40% to productivity growth. for these reasons, i reiterate my full support for this strategy which combines adequate economic/industrial development with an eco-sustainable strategy.
in writing. − the european commission's white paper on adaptation to climate change contains a number of issues on which it is and will be necessary to focus to limit this threat linked to global warming. i also think that the report's passage in which it stresses the importance of integrating the adaptation dimension into all the european union's policies, whether agricultural, fisheries or forestry, with a cross-sectoral and inter-sectoral approach that can ensure the consistency of the measures that will be put in place from time to time, is particularly welcome.
in writing. - i have expressed my support for the whole of the resolution on the commission's white paper entitled 'adaptation to climate change: towards a european framework for action' as i believe it is of particular interest to europe as a whole and to italy in particular because of its geo-climatic peculiarities. there are, in fact, obvious difficulties in the management of our country's water resources, as is shown by the frequent cases of drought in the south during the summer months, but also by some flooding episodes, as happened last december with the serchio river in tuscany. in italy we also have the terrible problem of summer fires, so there is an absolute need to improve the safety conditions. although the draft white paper is a starting point for the moment, i believe that it is certainly a significant contribution, especially in terms of emergency management. at the same time, it outlines an overall strategic approach to increase the eu's capacity to respond to the impacts of climate change.
in writing. − i am pleased that the estimated financial impact of the irregularities, although established, has decreased from eur 1 024 million in 2007 to eur 783.2 million in 2008 (the decrease affected all sectors, except direct expenditure and the pre-accession funds). i wholeheartedly support the work of the commission and would like to stress that the fight against fraud and corruption is a specific duty of the european institutions and of all the member states. in view of the particular economic situation affecting europe as a whole, i agree with the need to safeguard the financial interests of the union and to combat organised crime, which, according to national indicators, is strengthening its capacity for collusion within the institutions through fraud against the community budget. i therefore believe that it is essential to establish an effective legal instrument to improve administrative cooperation against harmful tax practices and to allow the internal market to function properly. in this connection, i support the proposal for a council directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation, stressing the importance of extending the responsibility of the member states to the quality of the information contained in the databases.
in writing. - i take this important opportunity to comment on the vote on the general report by the eib in luxembourg to reiterate, as i have already done through a number of questions, the importance of strengthening the financial envelope of the european investment bank's financial instruments in support of the urban development and regeneration plans. existing instruments such as the jessica fund are one of the few financial engineering instruments that a region or municipality can use to finance urban development projects. the measures also cover public housing only in respect of the complementary project areas and the renovation and energy improvement of buildings. in this connection, i would like to take this opportunity to stress that in my view the jessica fund should also be extended to finance new construction (which is of course environmentally friendly), as this would help local authorities to respond to the housing problem in our cities.
in writing. − the eib's role grew in 2008 as a result of the financial crisis. in a context of liquidity crisis, the eib continued to lend to the public and private sectors for projects of european interest, using financial markets and its own resources. in addition to stimulating national economies, the eu adopted a decision on the european economic recovery plan, which envisages an important role for the eib, especially in increasing finance for smes, renewable energy sources and clean transport. in response to the crisis, the eib has significantly revised upwards its objectives: in order to help businesses and encourage economic recovery, the eib has significantly increased the volume of its lending activities. the amount paid out exceeded the amount planned by 10 billion; in particular, loans to smes increased by 42%. the bank also developed new risk-sharing financial instruments, simplified lending procedures and accelerated the implementation of projects in the member states and sectors most affected by the crisis. the report highlights the positive effects of these measures, but calls for a careful examination of the real effects of the sme support programmes.
in writing. the joint resolution we are voting on on the recent interethnic atrocities in nigeria seems satisfactory in terms of the premises and the indications which our assembly wishes to give to the other community institutions dealing with the eu's external action. we need to act for the political stabilisation of nigeria and for the creation of a solid basis for economic and social development: we know very well that the premises are not lacking, considering the wealth of natural resources in nigeria. the solution of political, economic and social problems can make the environment peaceful, less prone to inter-ethnic tensions and capable of rejecting the violence that we have seen tragically frequent in the last decade. along with the recognition that the responsibility for the mass violence between christians and muslims is shared by both ethnic groups, we should perhaps have pointed out that another factor of concern, which also has to do with the incidents of violence that have occurred, is the gradual penetration of radical islamism in nigeria, which is most clearly expressed by the adoption of sharia as state law by 12 of the 36 states. however, for the general reasons i have outlined, i shall vote in favour of the joint resolution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, just to remind you that this morning in afghanistan two italian soldiers of the taurinense brigade were killed in an attack. the european union plays a difficult role in the context of peace and war, and i ask, at the opening of the session, that our parliament should join in our condolences and support for the families of the victims at this very difficult time.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i asked for a minute to express the same concerns as mr mauro, and i therefore join him in expressing his condolences, which i believe unites the whole house, for the two italian soldiers killed in the attack this morning. i believe that the condolences must be accompanied by indignation, solidarity with the families, closeness to the wounded, rejection of all forms of terrorism, but also by renewed action by europe alongside that of the national states, so that the peace mission can be even more effective and take place in a more secure environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that whatever we discuss and decide here in thailand and in transdniester, it does not change anything, so there is no point in travelling.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to stress once again the importance of the written declaration on corruption which i proposed with four other members and which was approved by half plus one of the european parliament, so as to commit the council and the commission to really effective legislation on corruption. i have just returned from a visit to greece on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, and one of the reasons for the greek structural crisis is certainly the waste of public money, a situation which is also occurring in italy: italy is corrupt, as it is becoming clear these days; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat corruption, including the illegal management of public funds, the relationship between a section of politicians and a section of businessmen, and organized white-collar crime. it is important that the european parliament puts all its pressure on the commission, on the member states - that member states which do not comply are sanctioned - and that the european institutions which must control corruption and fight organised crime are strengthened.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if there is still a gap between men's and women's employment, we know that this gap is even more marked in the selfemployed sector. in fact, women are too often forced to sacrifice their professional ambitions in the name of assuming the role and workload that comes from the absurd presumption of dedication to the family. to solve this problem i think it is necessary to provide for measures such as those contained in the directive we are discussing but keeping our eyes fixed on the family's north star: only this can give meaning and hope of success to these very measures! the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens is a very good one. putting the family at the centre, otherwise any package of measures will be a disorderly set of interventions, which will be useless in the end.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, before i speak, allow me to join in the sorrow already expressed by this house over the deaths of two european soldiers who were killed this morning in afghanistan as a result of a terrorist attack. ladies and gentlemen, the commission has started the review of textile labelling legislation in the context of the 'better regulation' initiative. the main objective of this proposal is to improve the existing legal framework and to simplify the procedure for adopting new textile names. the proposal therefore aims to promote innovation in the textile sector. the new regulation is therefore intended to enable manufacturers, users and consumers to obtain more rapidly innovative products containing new fibres, a subject which is of great interest to european consumers, to the textile and clothing industry and to national administrations. i should like to begin by thanking the committee on the internal market and consumer protection for approving the report on 8 april. i would like to thank in particular the rapporteur, mr manders, and the shadow rapporteurs for the thorough and detailed work on this proposal which has resulted in a lively and constructive debate on textile labelling. as this is a proposal for legislative simplification, the commission's original text deviated from the provisions of the directive, which the regulation now under discussion will have to replace. that said, the commission agrees with the vast majority of the amendments proposed in the report adopted by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. we are aware that some amendments, particularly those proposing to extend the scope of the regulation, will be discussed in the council. we will do our utmost to facilitate the interinstitutional debate and to ensure that acceptable compromises are reached. one of these amendments concerns the 'made in' mark of origin, which was not included in the commission's original proposal: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the directive on the protection of consumers. the amendments proposed in this connection refer to the commission's proposal submitted in 2005 on the origin marking of many categories of imported products, including textiles. i will support these amendments, as i have already had the opportunity to stress at the meeting with the committee on the internal market. i shall take the same approach with regard to the amendment proposing the labelling of non-textile parts of animal origin. i would also like to make a few comments on other amendments. as regards amendment no 19, the commission proposal already provided for the exemption of traditional tailors from labelling. however, extending this exemption to all textile products delivered to the consumer as a single product would allow a possibly excessive number of clothing products to be exempted from labelling. the latter sector is one of the main axes of development of european clothing products and these products would thus be exempted from labelling and the exemptions risk becoming excessive. as regards amendment no 63, which aims to remove toys from the list of products excluded from labelling obligations, i would like to remind you that the fundamental issue for toys is safety. the legislation, which is sufficiently detailed, was thoroughly reviewed in 2009 with extensive discussions in the council and the european parliament. as the safety element is already addressed in the ad hoc legislation on toys, our concern is that the addition of such a burden on manufacturers may be disproportionate. as regards the request to examine other possibilities for labelling textile products and clothing, i am committed to launching a broad and open debate with the interested parties on all the other issues that have been raised in the discussions in the european parliament and the council. i thank you for your attention and i shall listen carefully to the comments that will be made during this debate.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, textiles are one of the key sectors of our european market. the proposal put forward by the european commission already provides a good basis for improving and simplifying the regulatory framework currently in force in the member states, especially in terms of transparency and flexibility of legislation in relation to technological developments in the textile industry. the work we have done so far in parliament has indeed enabled us to extend the original scope by introducing rules on other labelling requirements which we consider absolutely essential. i would like to draw your attention in particular to the rules on the indication of origin. we have proposed two different labelling systems in this case: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a regulation on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. in general, the systems serve two purposes, the most important of which is to know the actual origin of the product. consumers must be able to make an informed choice when purchasing textile products. the proposed criteria for the attribution of origin are designed to prevent labelling from containing false or misleading information, which is certainly harmful to consumers. the new regulation also aims to protect small and mediumsized enterprises which have decided to continue their activities in the member states. the choice to go to the vote in plenary was made in the hope of expressing a strong position of the european parliament on these issues, especially in view of the political agreement we have managed to reach between the three largest political groups. i would like to say that the work with the rapporteur and the other shadow rapporteurs has been really excellent. although we had different political views, we were able to find a genuine common synthesis, which was the best choice for protecting the interests of the european citizens and the european union itself. i therefore hope that we shall have a firm vote on this report tomorrow, to give a strong political signal to the council for the work we are going to do on the second reading. i really thank you all for your cooperation.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we must congratulate mr toine manders on this resolution and report, which attempts to put some order into the growing cacophony of the global market. i am particularly interested in the question of compulsory origin marking, on which i am working with the rapporteur, mrs cristiana muscardini, as shadow rapporteur for the liberal and democratic group on the committee on international trade, which is my committee, and of which this report by mrs manders is in some way a small preview. in fact, in the global market in which we operate, we have regulations for mandatory origin marking in the united states, china, australia, mexico, japan and many other countries, which creates an asymmetry that is heavily constraining both producers and consumers on our continent, with anomalies that need to be corrected. this is particularly true of textiles, which have a safety problem which has already been mentioned, but which also have, as it were, a suggestion as to their origin, i would say almost a kind of poetics of origin, which is particularly significant. today we are moving in a foggy situation, in the sense that we have products on which the origin marking is included because it is convenient for the producer, sometimes it is not included because it is not convenient, other times it is included but on regulations that are from other countries, because the product is also exported to the united states and japan and then you also think about those markets. we therefore need european standards in this area. in this respect, the european parliament's effort is through the report by mr toine manders now, and as we are doing in the committee on international trade, we are trying to, so to speak, draw our canvas for greater clarity for the consumer and the producer.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs, commissioner tajani and vice-president tajani for their timely and precise answers to the most important questions. eighteen years ago, the university of barcelona did a study in which it said that textiles would disappear from europe by the year 2000. it's 2010 and this dire prophecy hasn't come true, it hasn't come true for one simple reason: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the proposals which have been put forward by the rapporteur, mr von wogau, and which have been approved by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. i think it is useful to imagine a future, vice-president tajani, in which the protection of safety and health is also ensured by a european observatory, an authority which protects this originality. i think that is the positive aspect of this report which we must all agree on.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we all share the approach of the proposal for a regulation under discussion today, particularly as regards the aspects of simplification of bureaucracy, the promotion of a more innovative industry, and clarity - i think i should stress this aspect - with regard to the consumer. it is in this sense that i would like to emphasize the point concerning the place of origin, because i believe it is an essential trait: the consumer today wants to be informed and certainly the place of origin is one of the most sensitive aspects of all the data we can provide to the consumer. if we go to any market, i think, in any city in europe, we see that people are interested in buying what they are buying, in knowing what they are buying, what that product is made of and where that product comes from. it is certainly a very sensitive and important fact, and it is important because the european union is now an added value, the european union is a guarantee of safety and consumer protection. we know, consumers know, that in non-eu countries there are - we regret to say this, but we know that there are - there is no point in hiding behind a finger, ladies and gentlemen - less careful rules, less careful legislation, less sensitive to many of the aspects that many colleagues have already mentioned: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. too often news reports have brought to light cases of allergies in children, in women, we talk to doctors, we talk to paediatricians, we talk to gynaecologists and we know that there are cases, unfortunately widespread, of products and substances used that are harmful to health. the last thing i want to remember: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a decision on the labelling of foodstuffs, and whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on agriculture and rural development.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking because i want to take part in this debate, because i think we are about to vote on a very important measure: the directive on the protection of workers from the risks of exposure to chemical agents. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. buyers must know what they are buying and quality is what buyers need to find! but it's also about knowing how socially sustainable what we buy is. i would like to know whether a particular product is made in a place where there are protections for workers; i want to know if that product, behind that product, there is child exploitation. i want to know if that product is the result of unfair competition! i am glad that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce this measure, and i hope that it will soon be extended to other sectors of production and craft industries, because i believe, and i conclude, that this measure will bring europe much closer to the citizens, and i thank the rapporteurs who have brought this measure to life and the commission and commissioner tajani for the impetus they have given to this measure.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in thanking the rapporteur, mr manders, the shadow rapporteur, mrs comi, i would like to make a slight distinction between what mrs rühle said, with great respect. you say that it is wrong to include in this regulation rules on 'made in', and where should we put these rules that for years, for too many years, consumers and small businesses operating in europe have been waiting for? we should, with this regulation, open up to new fibres, to innovation, to faster coding, but conceal the place of origin, because the europe of fear, the europe that hides, the europe that does not make things clear, the europe that does not say where things are produced, must speed up the introduction of new fibres onto the market, but it must not tell consumers where textiles are produced. what's the point of this double speed? why should we still be encouraging the idea of a europe of bureaucracy, of lack of clarity and, even worse, of fear, which must not be clear? we want, and we want soon, also the rules on 'made in', and we want them for a simple reason - i conclude immediately, mr president - because if it says 'made in europe' on a textile product, it means that the product, with the wording, was not made with toxic or environmentally harmful solvents, was not worked by children reduced to slavery, or by exploited women, was not made with exploited workers, with grueling working hours and without health, social security and wage guarantees. the 'made in europe' label is a guarantee to the consumer and also a guarantee on how a product has been made. we must be proud of this and we must see to it that it is introduced immediately! that is why we support the proposal as formulated by the committee responsible and we thank commissioner tajani for the significant assurances he has given to this house in this regard.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i too share the view of those who say that this proposal for a regulation is certainly technical in nature, but also of political importance: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are not applied in the same way as in the past. we are doing the citizen a service because, through what is the prevailing opinion in this parliament, in favour of labelling, we are giving the opportunity to know what kind of product the citizen is buying and thus to guarantee his health, to guarantee also rights which must always be respected. i agree with the issues raised by mr gebhardt in his speech, but also by mr figueiredo in his speech. we are also committed to defending the european textile industry: we must not forget that this sector has lost many jobs, sometimes also because of unfair competition. we have a duty to defend the competitiveness of our companies on the world market, we have to prevent dumping within the european union. the protection of the textile industry means the protection of thousands and thousands of jobs, and at the same time we are also defending the rights of the citizens. so there are a number of interests to be protected by approving this text, interests which i believe will always respect the values of our european union. i think mr kelly is right and i would like to reassure mr dartmouth, who has called for the superstate, even though he has left the house. i do not believe that the european union is the modern leviathan of hobbes, it is only an institution which recognises itself in the principles of solidarity, subsidiarity, which defends human rights, which is committed to protecting the social market economy and the market is an instrument for making social policy, so no action that seeks to restrict the freedom of anyone but only to defend the rights of half a billion european citizens living within our union. commission position on amendments by parliamentmanders report (a7-0122/2010) the commission can accept amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 10, 15, 17, 18, 20, 22, 23, 26, 29, 33, 34, 35, 39, 41, 42, 43, 44, 46, 52 and 61. the commission can accept amendments 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 21, 24, 25, 27, 28, 30, 31, 32, 36, 40, 45, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 62, 64, 65, 66, 67, 69, 70 and 72 in principle. the commission is therefore in favour of the amendments. the commission cannot accept amendments nos 19, 37, 38, 63, 68 and 71.
in writing. the european union's textile industry, in response to the major economic challenges facing the sector in recent years, has embarked on a long process of restructuring and technological innovation. the report under discussion, by allowing for the harmonization and standardization of aspects of the labelling of textile products, in my view makes it possible both to facilitate the free movement of these products in the internal market and to achieve a high and uniform level of consumer protection in the european union. i therefore share the call on the commission to submit a report to the european parliament and the council within two years of the entry into force of the new regulation on any new labelling requirements with the dual aim of simplifying the labelling of textile products and providing consumers with accurate and comparable information on the properties, origin and size of textile products. in pursuing these objectives, i believe it is necessary to ensure that the extension of the labelling obligation does not lead to an increase in the burden on businesses, in particular small and mediumsized enterprises. there is currently insufficient evidence to demonstrate the effects on human health of allergenic or hazardous substances used in the manufacture/processing of textile products, so i urge the commission to undertake a study to assess the effects.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the economic and financial crisis has highlighted the key role of public procurement, which is intended to develop major projects, stimulate innovation and certainly encourage competition within and outside europe. we believe that it is essential to simplify the rules and to provide greater legal certainty. this would certainly increase transparency in the composition and work of the advisory committee on public procurement, for which the commission is responsible. we welcome the role of institutionalised public-private partnerships in facilitating access for the small and medium-sized enterprises that are the backbone of our economy. efforts must be stepped up to prevent discrimination which often affects smes themselves in europe. i congratulate my colleagues on their work and i will support them tomorrow.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the intention to define a framework of coherent measures, with the aim of expressing effective solidarity between the member states, represents a step forward in the coordination of community policies on migration flows. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the granting of international protection to refugees. the involvement of civil society can be useful in this process, but this measure seems to be closely linked to the forthcoming activation of the european support office. it is necessary to establish immediately a list of priorities and objectives to be achieved, with timetables and concrete incentive measures, with a specific financial allocation to increase the number of members, now only ten, who join the programme, without forgetting the need for health protection to supplement social protection for people who are often worn out by a condition of extreme weakness. a computerized register will also allow traceability of each step and ensure family unity in the resettlement process. in this context, cooperation with the member states to ensure the smooth and agile procedures can be decisive. we want a fairer and more realistic european union, which takes account of the efforts of the southern european member states in particular. it is also essential that the european union should take on the task of drawing up cooperation agreements with third countries, as italy has also recently done with libya and niger. we believe that this is the way, the only way, to go from solidarity, which has so far often been very often a facade, to a genuine solidarity of the member states of the european union in the complex management of migration flows.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, providing europe with a common asylum policy and a resettlement strategy means guaranteeing human rights and at the same time curbing illegal immigration. i would like to thank the rapporteurs and commissioner malmström because we now have a valuable instrument, especially for those countries bordering the mediterranean: the european convention on the law of the sea. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these policies must be supported by adequate budgetary resources, but also by serious checks on the programmes implemented, by appropriate follow-up and by the identification of good practice. conclusion on human rights: the most vulnerable people, the children, the women who are victims of trafficking, exploitation and violence, including the victims of genital mutilation, must be given priority, but i know that commissioner malmström is very careful about this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the outermost regions are areas with socioeconomic and structural characteristics, due to their great distance from markets, their insularity, their small size, their difficult topography and climate and their economic dependence on certain products. in particular, three agricultural sectors are of particular importance: the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the proposal. the economic system of these areas depends on the proper functioning of the production system of each of the above sectors, but much must be done to restore the equilibrium that has been lost over time and to ensure the necessary derogations for the application of the appropriate market instruments. mr president, commissioner, we are very concerned to learn of the negotiations with the mercosur countries: i 'm not . the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the effects of the crisis.
a fair and realistic immigration policy, mr president, necessarily implies the adoption of a common european asylum system and must also provide for an effective, solid and sustainable resettlement programme. i would like to stress here that resettlement is not only a humanitarian objective but also a political and economic one, namely to relieve third countries of the burden of taking in large numbers of refugees and, not least, of sharing the costs and financial responsibilities. we believe, however, that a single budget line and financial support are not enough. we therefore urge member states to promote the creation of additional private funding mechanisms, encouraging public-private partnerships with ngos and other social partners, such as religious and ethnic organisations, in order to help promote volunteering in this area. in the context of the new financial perspective, for example, we think it would be appropriate to provide for a specific ad hoc financial allocation, perhaps in the form of a new fund dedicated to this. we therefore propose that all parties concerned make a strong effort to provide refugees, especially the most vulnerable, with access to adequate housing, education and language courses, health care, psychological support and access to the labour market, which is essential to ensure their effective integration.
i voted in favour of the ashworth report because i believe that simplification and reduction of bureaucratic procedures relating to the cap, the common agricultural policy, is not only desirable but necessary to ensure that european farmers can fully benefit from it and do not incur, as often happens, administrative difficulties and delays. i also think that the desire to ensure clearer and more comprehensible legislation for both the competent authorities and farmers, to eliminate all superfluous rules and to promote the exchange of good practice between the member states and local authorities is widely shared.
so, as regards the ţicău report, i voted in favour of the common position for updating the directive on energy efficiency in the building sector, because the objective is to have all newly built buildings with a zero energy budget by the end of 2020, and this must be pursued vigorously by the european institutions. there is a common commitment on the part of europe, a strong conviction that in the near future we will not have to produce more energy but use it better. energy saving and energy efficiency are indeed a source of energy production, we do not have to wait ten years to move in this direction, member states should commit themselves immediately to achieving energy efficiency targets using those financial resources currently allocated to producing more energy. i am particularly reminded of the vicious launch of the nuclear programme in italy, which has damaged and endangered the health of citizens and the environment, with a huge expenditure of public resources and the production of energy in no less than 20 years' time that we would not need if we were to invest the same resources in energy efficiency right away. green investments, not radioactive waste for our children! i now turn to the explanation of vote for the rühle report.
i voted in favour of it because i think it is important that parliament should support the simplification and rationalisation of the rules on public procurement. this will make it easier for both administrations and firms, and in particular for small and mediumsized firms, to participate in tenders. i think it is essential to refer to the use of public procurement as a tool to encourage sustainable development pathways through the introduction of environmental and social criteria in calls for tender. i also believe that it is the duty of this parliament and the european institutions, especially in the field of public procurement, to insist on increasingly complete and wide-ranging transparency in the use of public money by all possible means, especially the internet. citizens' control is a key element in the use of public funds in the real interest of the community and in the fight against, as the committee on regional development reminds us, the high level of corruption in local and regional authorities.
madam president, the report by my colleague clearly shows that there are still considerable differences in the way serious breaches of social rules in road transport are dealt with in the various member states. i therefore support the measures proposed in the text in question with regard to the harmonisation and equalisation of infringements and the related sanctions at european level and the possible establishment of a coordination instrument at european union level.
in writing. − we are convinced of the added value that the european asylum support office will bring to the development of mutual trust, and the sharing of political and economic responsibilities. eu member states have yet to reach a final agreement on the treatment of refugees, the profile of those granted refugee status and, above all, the reservations of some governments on the question of possible costs. the office will be responsible for providing specialised assistance and will have a role in coordinating, exchanging information and taking action on the resettlement of refugees. it will run training programmes for national managers in the sector, contributing to greater harmonisation of different national practices. the fundamental prerogative of us members of parliament to appoint its executive director will be a fundamental one. i think it is important to stress our call for the necessary changes to be made to the budget of the european refugee fund in order to ensure adequate funding for the new agency. the major political issue remains the relationship between human solidarity and financial burden sharing: the eu is called upon to effectively support those states which are most affected by migratory flows and by high numbers of asylum seekers, with specific pressures which are often disproportionate to their national size.
in writing. - i support the proposal to set up a european asylum support office. this office, initially financed through the european refugee fund, will be responsible for providing the specialised assistance needed to implement a common asylum policy and will coordinate the exchange of information and actions relating to the resettlement of refugees. in accordance with the principles of transparency and democratic control, the european parliament will appoint its executive director. intra-community solidarity will be implemented on the basis of an agreement between the member states and with the consent of the person concerned. i also welcome the establishment of the consultative forum, which was set up at the instigation of the members of this house and is designed to ensure close dialogue between the support office and the various interested parties.
in writing. − while voting in favour of this report is a due act, as the entry into force of the lisbon treaty has required some adjustments to the legal basis and delegated acts, i would like to stress the importance of energy efficiency in the field of buildings in achieving the eu's 2020 target of a 20% reduction in energy consumption and co2 emissions and a 20% increase in energy production from renewable sources. in urban centres, energy efficiency and emission reduction targets depend primarily on improving the energy efficiency of existing buildings and those under construction. however, i believe that the directive sets very ambitious objectives which the local authorities will find it difficult to achieve without the contribution of financial instruments, including those from community sources. i am thinking in particular of the enormous work of energy recovery in existing buildings such as public housing, whose energy renewal (which would help households to reduce their energy bills) will require a considerable economic commitment on the part of the municipalities.
in writing. − i support the recommendation to improve the energy performance of buildings. energy efficiency means not only energy savings, but also reduction of co2 and greenhouse gas emissions. to achieve this, energy dissipation in buildings, which has increased due to technology shifting energy costs from construction to maintenance, should be limited. research in the construction industry is moving towards green building. the major projects are concentrated in the temperate countries, where the spread of these technologies already makes it possible to envisage "sustainable cities" in the near future. in the mediterranean countries, new technologies are not spreading as rapidly. although the problem of heat dissipation is less relevant in these areas, the buildings do not have a greater environmental sustainability. the increasing use of air conditioning systems, which are becoming more and more common in homes, is a major source of energy consumption. the european union must therefore carry out information campaigns and take action through the use of community funds, incentives and information campaigns, the use of and research into new production techniques.
in writing. - madam president, by voting in favour of this report, europe has taken a step forward towards a common asylum policy. this will make it possible to guarantee human rights better and at the same time to curb illegal immigration. the eu will have to make its voice heard on migration and integration by taking on the burden of defining european rules and contributing to the costs incurred by eu countries affected by migration flows. however, resettlement cannot and must not be done without joint action to combat illegal immigration, which can be carried out not only in agreement with the border countries but also directly in those countries from which the 'illegal immigrants' come.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the refugee problem is a european problem and cannot be left to the national governments to deal with, also in view of the geographical and economic differences. i therefore welcome the creation of a fund at european union level. the creation of this fund must have a twofold value, both in support of the refugees who arrive in our countries, often on our shores, in search of help, and in support of those states which, given their geographical position, are the main recipients of these desperate people. the problem is and must be a european problem and cannot be left to the management of a few states. i hope that the fund is only the beginning of a process which will bring the whole issue closer to europe and to solidarity.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my full support for mr coelho's report. the schengen information system has proved to be an excellent and valuable management and control tool within the european union. however, in the course of its development and also in view of the additional needs identified, an adjustment and an adaptation became necessary. the rapporteur's proposal is in this order of ideas: migration to the second generation system is no longer deferrable or postponed. we need effective and efficient tools for coordinating data and for controlling those who enter and travel within the schengen system. i therefore, like the rapporteur, stress the need for the commission to implement the new second generation sis as soon as possible.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to express my support for mr tavares' report. as has been stressed in connection with the creation of the european refugee fund, european action and approach to the problem are needed. i think that the harmonization of the procedures for granting refugee status is therefore more than appropriate. we cannot have differences at european level on this definition. a common concept would both prevent the 'migration' of refugees within european states and provide for more appropriate management. so a joint programme seems to me to be going in the right direction. finally, an effective eu resettlement programme should provide protection and durable solutions both for refugee situations that are protracted over time and for the need for rapid and adequate responses in emergency or unforeseen emergencies.
in writing. − my vote in favour of the report on the implementation of the 'education and training 2010' work programme is motivated by the fact that the report contains some very important steps which i hope will be put into practice in the context of community policies and subsequently fully transposed by the member states. i am referring in particular to the points concerning vocational training and the link between training processes and labour market needs. in this respect, it is therefore hopeful that the future of our education system and of our economic system, which is composed almost exclusively of smes, will be marked by the recognition of the need to strengthen the link between institutions, especially those of vocational training, and the business world. the idea that partnerships should be encouraged between national and local producers on the one hand and the training sector on the other is certainly a positive one: this would enable the school to coordinate its training programmes more successfully with the real needs of the territory and the economic world which expresses them, without taking into account that this would help the school to mitigate the annual problem of finding adequate resources to offer young people a quality training and immediate professional affordability.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the recognition that education and training are essential for the success of the knowledge society and the economy of tomorrow is no longer a myth. these represent the foundations of our society and the foundations for our future and that of future generations. quality education (pre-primary, primary, secondary and higher) and vocational training are essential to meet the challenges facing europe, including under the eu2020 strategy. i agree with the outline of the communication which mentions several strategies that could be implemented, such as supporting the development of teachers' skills, updating assessment methods and introducing new forms of learning organisation. i would like to express my support and congratulate the rapporteur on the sensitivity she has shown in drafting the text.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i support the report by mr lehne. the recent financial crisis has shown the need to analyse issues related to the remuneration policies of company directors. i agree with the rapporteur's approach when he suggests a method based on binding measures with the aim of preventing the variable part of remuneration (bonus, stock, etc.) from leading to investment policies which are too risky and far removed from the development of the real economy. in this respect, legislative action is needed to address the problem of disparities in national rules on corporate remuneration, particularly in cross-border mergers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. uniform and comprehensive guidelines should be put in place to this end.
in writing. - mr president, i supported the report by my colleague because i am aware that the consequences of the economic and financial crisis have already reached and affected the social fabric and particularly young europeans, exposing them to worrying unemployment rates. i therefore believe that it is the duty of the european institutions to draw up a well-defined strategy which can, on the one hand, exploit the existing training and mobility programmes (such as comenius, erasmus and leonardo da vinci) and, on the other, increase the correspondence between the training supply, skills and demand and the needs of the labour market, in order to improve and ensure the necessary transition from the vocational training phase to the employment phase.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report, for which i am voting in favour, contains interesting reflections and suggestions for the development of constructive policies aimed at empowering young people in today's society. today, there are many challenges facing these people in their efforts to find employment and social inclusion. i agree with the main point in the report: the european parliament could be a useful instrument for implementing european youth strategies, given its democratic origin and its consequent capacity to collect young people's requests in the territory and in the member states and to bring europe's attention to their needs. as in previous interventions, i would like to stress the importance of linking the training path to local production: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's social policy. i also fully agree with the emphasis on the social and human importance, which the report rightly mentions, of young people's participation in volunteering as a factor of personal and collective growth.
in writing. - unemployed, unemployed, trainees. what prospects are there for our young people? what life expectancy? how can they feel, forced to stay at home and be supported by their parents, without even being able to imagine a family? working long hours, often underpaid, doing jobs far below their educational level. no prospect of retirement. what does the future hold for them? mr president, ladies and gentlemen, young people are paying the heaviest price of the crisis. they are disillusioned and frightened by the prospect of being cut off from the job market. it is useless to hide behind good intentions, behind promises. young people want facts. and we have a duty to give concrete answers. we have to invest, we have to provide certainty, we have to offer opportunity. the world of work is changing, and we must create the conditions for young people to be the first to adapt to change, to take advantage of new technologies, to undertake educational pathways adapted to new needs. we must redouble our efforts, we must put young people at the centre of our european policies. if young people have no future, then society as a whole has no future.
in writing. - i agree with the view expressed by mr papanikolaou. the development of a new eu youth strategy is of paramount importance. the new youth strategy should therefore have as its main objective a more effective use of existing tools and the promotion of their knowledge. progress can be made by urging governments to cooperate more closely in this area, regardless of differences in national youth policies. this is an essential factor in offering a promising future to future generations of european citizens. the economic crisis is affecting young people deeply and is threatening their future prosperity. moreover, the ageing of the population will have a major impact on their future. in view of the multiple pressures facing young people, the consequent duty to support them through an effective youth strategy, and the fact that youth policy is subject to the principle of subsidiarity and that member states cooperate in this area on a voluntary basis, it is of paramount importance that the new strategy overcomes the weaknesses of the previous one and delivers concrete results.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the adoption of the proposal for a directive on the application of the principle of equal treatment between men and women engaged in an activity in a self-employed capacity. finally, the european parliament expresses its opinion on the application of this principle, which is a symbol of social and economic progress! i believe that, while respecting the prerogatives of the state, it is not only necessary to establish a minimum standard of protection for women working as selfemployed mothers and for spouses and partners who are recognised as assistants, but also to make their protection equivalent to that of women working as employed mothers. it is hoped that the waiver of rights will be followed by the respect of those rights and that the states will therefore undertake to introduce appropriate measures to protect the maternity of women who are self-employed and of assisting spouses. all forms of discrimination at work must be combated in order to support the empowerment of women alongside men.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my support for mrs lulling's report. the reasons for the proposal are that the gender gap in the selfemployment sector is still very high and is likely to widen; in addition, it is felt that assisting spouses, who often make a substantial contribution to the selfemployed person's activity, should be guaranteed social protection, which is totally lacking in many member states. the proposal, which also aims to encourage women's access to the labour market and to help combat undeclared work, introduces three main changes to existing community legislation: the definition of 'assisting spouse' is amended to include unmarried couples where recognised by national law; the amount of the allowance is determined by the number of days worked by the person concerned during the period of employment. the assisting spouse is granted the right to access, on request, a social protection scheme.
in writing. - madam president, today parliament reiterated the need to achieve a high level of consumer protection throughout the eu and the importance of harmonising the textile labelling legislation by making it mandatory for all clothing sold in europe. the entry into force of a future regulation on the designation of origin of textile products and information on indications concerning the fibre composition will simplify the existing regulatory framework, making it transparent, clear and to the benefit of consumers and smes. the labels will enable consumers to make informed choices about purchasing products, including on the basis of ethical considerations such as health, environmental impact, human rights, and the conditions and wages of workers employed in the manufacture of textile products. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the 'made in' label would not only provide additional information on the characteristics of the product, but would also help to strengthen the economy by developing new products for a wide range of sectors, employment, and also the fight against counterfeiting of those products from third countries.
in writing. - i congratulate the rapporteur, mr manders, on the painstaking work he has done so far to unify three complex directives. the report simplifies the existing regulatory framework, for example by ensuring that a new fibre is brought to market quickly. for our smes this means savings in administrative costs and faster profits from the sale of new fibres. provisions to encourage innovation, which i believe is essential for european companies. only with innovative and quality products can we overcome the fierce global competition and overcome this difficult time of crisis. the text also protects consumers, whose interests - i repeat - are at the heart of our policies. the rules adopted will ensure that european citizens have clearer and more transparent rules, and will also guarantee them the opportunity to benefit from innovative products in a short time. finally, the health of citizens will be better guaranteed: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, we have finally adopted the made in textiles rules. parliament had already given a favourable opinion on the 2005 proposal for a regulation on the indication of the country of origin for certain products imported from third countries, which had been blocked in the council. but since this is not a codecision procedure, little could be done in the face of the opposition of some national governments. this vote today is a strong political signal from the house, which represents the european citizens, and which is strongly calling on the council to adopt these rules. this is a goal that is closer today, also in the context of the lisbon treaty. this is a first reading vote, but it is an important result, the result of a great deal of work done in recent months with colleagues from other national delegations and other political groups. this new legislation protects european consumers who want to know the origin of textile products and smes that make them in the member states. this means that we can no longer say, for example, that a product is made in one member state if only 25% of it is made in that country. today, at least 50% of it must be made in that country.
in writing. - i am in favour of the manders report on the origin labelling of textile products because it solves a problem which has long threatened the freedom of choice of our consumers. the mark of origin is essential to ensure transparency, security and information for european citizens and at the same time to give clear and shared rules to our businesses. the problem remains, however, for textile products from third countries, our trading partners. i therefore ask my colleagues to confirm their support for the origin mark regulation under discussion in the committee on foreign trade, which protects our consumers and our businesses not only for textiles and clothing products but also for those sectors which are sensitive to european economic growth.
in writing. − the european textile industry has responded to the major economic challenges of recent years by embarking on a difficult path of restructuring, modernisation and technological innovation. european companies have improved their position on the global market by focusing on competitive advantages such as quality, design and technological innovation of products with higher added values. the european industry plays a leading role worldwide in the development of new products, technical and non-woven textiles for new applications, hygiene products, the automotive industry or the medical sector. i welcome the commission's proposal for a regulation as it simplifies the existing regulatory framework for the development and taking up of new fibres and has the potential to encourage innovation in the textile and clothing sector, while allowing fibre users and consumers to benefit more quickly from innovative products. finally, i express the broadest support for the regulation of 'made in' as essential to ensure an adequate level of consumer protection on the composition of the product to be purchased and its origin.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr moreira's report. the proposed macro-financial assistance is intended to complement the imf support provided under the stand-by arrangement, as well as the support of the world bank, which should take the form of loans granted in support of budgetary support policy. the macro-financial assistance programme would be complementary to other union funding. the union's financial assistance reflects the strategic importance of ukraine as a potential candidate for eu membership. the granting of the mfa takes place at a time when the eu is also involved in mobilising funding to reform the ukrainian energy sector. i agree with the rapporteur's line to improve the clarity, transparency and documentation of the draft proposal.
in writing. the commission proposal, as improved by the rapporteur, provides for some changes to previous community legislation, in particular regulation no 247 of 2006. the main amendments concern the introduction, extension or adaptation of certain derogations in the sugar, milk and wine sectors. i think the proposed amendments are positive for the outermost regions concerned. the situation is particularly difficult in certain areas which have been affected by the recent crises in the main sectors of their economy (the dairy sector in the azores, sugar beet, etc.). diversification of economic activities should therefore be encouraged. however, in order to encourage such diversification, it is necessary to offer producers and processors a long-term perspective and to enable economic operators to achieve an appropriate level of industrial and commercial activity. in view of the rapporteur's position and the amendments tabled by my colleagues in the committee responsible, i am in favour of the report.
in writing. - three years after the reform of the cap, we are faced with the timely question of how to adapt our agricultural policy to the challenges of the present. the own-initiative report offers useful and shareable suggestions for achieving the objective of quality and competitive agriculture. we must welcome the spirit of this report, because it is parliament's call for the new cap to be born in 2013 with simplified bureaucracy for farmers. any measure which simplifies the administrative procedures and burdens on agricultural producers - no less than on the public administrations concerned - and which does not compromise the quality standards of production is desirable. a report such as the one we are voting on, which is attentive to the needs of farmers and their need not to be hampered in their activities by excessive bureaucratic burdens, will certainly be a useful contribution to the process of reforming the community's agricultural policy, which for obvious reasons is a complex and very delicate prospect for the future of the european economy and for the safeguarding of the countless traditional products of our territories. i therefore vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - madam president, the ppe group has always been concerned about agriculture, which we consider to be a key sector of the european economy. however, our farmers have been burdened with bureaucratic and administrative burdens for too long: it's time to lighten their burden. i am convinced that simplification of bureaucratic procedures to be adopted with the reform of the cap from 2013 is not only desirable but also necessary. i therefore think that simpler rules should be applied for the electronic identification of animals and that a telephone helpline should be set up in each eu member state to improve access to information. it is also essential to restore trust between the authorities and farmers. the latter, moreover, no longer have to spend their days filling out forms and returns, but to cultivate their fields, thus providing better agricultural products that meet higher standards. i therefore voted in favour of these measures, which are part of the process of bureaucratic simplification, which my group in this parliament has boldly supported, and which offers a concrete response in times of crisis.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report on the simplification of the common agricultural policy and i congratulate mr ashworth and the shadow rapporteurs on the excellent work they have done. action is needed to simplify the procedures and bureaucratic requirements imposed on companies, so as to reduce their costs while increasing their competitiveness and legal certainty. we often forget that although they produce a basic commodity, agricultural enterprises are also enterprises whose competitiveness is affected by excessive bureaucracy. that is why i think it is important to have a report like this, which highlights the problems that arise from conditionality, or overly complicated procedures, and also proposes solutions to simplify and improve what remains the most important programme of our union, if only in financial terms. i believe that by voting in favour of this report parliament has taken another step towards a more modern, more efficient, less costly cap, but above all one which will be able to meet europe's food needs not only today but also in the years to come.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, agriculture is one of the main resources of the european territory, but it is also the sector most affected by the heavy bureaucratic structure of the union. the impact of climatic and environmental factors, which are by their nature difficult to predict, and which, as a result of the global changes taking place, are forcing the agricultural world to face new and difficult challenges, should not be underestimated. in this context, the european parliament considers it essential to take account of the fact that the 25% reduction in administrative burdens target set in the programme launched in 2003 is insufficient and not very ambitious, given that it is likely to be achieved before the 2012 deadline, and to indicate to the commission and the council some urgent measures to further reduce the burden on farmers. the commission is also proposing that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for simplifying the cap is part of the wider process of simplifying bureaucratic procedures, which has been under way for some time by the administrations of the various eu member states, in order to ensure that citizens have faster and more accessible services. in the agricultural sector too, such reform is necessary to enable farmers to save time and money in accessing the benefits of the system of cross-compliance and direct payments as well as in certain aspects of rural development and methods of identifying livestock. at the current stage, in which the debate on the cap post-2013 has begun, this simplification proposal is the test-bed for identifying opportunities and threats on which to build a proposal for the european agriculture of the future. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - public procurement represents around 18% of community gdp and thus plays a key role in boosting the economy and restoring employment, with a significant impact also on smes, which often act as subcontractors. in the current context, in which the interaction between the internal market and international markets is becoming increasingly clear, european companies are in serious danger of suffering unfair competition from companies in third countries (e.g. china) which benefit from state aid prohibited to european companies, and, failing to comply with european standards on safety and workers' rights, thus coming up with considerably lower costs and shorter lead times. coordinated action at european level is needed to combat this phenomenon. finally, i would like to stress the importance of respecting the principle of reciprocity and proportionality. for example, chinese companies have access to the european market, but european companies cannot compete in tenders in china. i commend the rapporteur for his work and i vote in favour.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs ranner's report, which i commend for the work it has done, highlights not only the differences in the amount of fines between member states but also the differences in the types of penalties, considering this to be an unsatisfactory situation for drivers and transport undertakings. i agree with the approach of the parliament's report which stresses the importance, also for the internal market, of full implementation of social standards, if necessary through more frequent checks, the establishment of a european coordination instrument and the harmonisation of infringements and the related penalties. the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should be able to give a ruling on the application of article 85 (3) of the treaty to the infringement of the directive. i therefore vote in favour.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, increasing the availability of organs, improving their accessibility and safety, raising public awareness, is what the committee on the environment and health of the european parliament has called for in order to shorten waiting lists for transplants. it is therefore necessary to promote biotechnological research and the circulation of organs in the european union, but also to establish a european donor charter, to prevent transplant tourism and to strengthen the fight against illegal organ trafficking by severely punishing those responsible. in order to prevent illegal practices, living donation should be considered only as an extreme ratio, when other avenues such as post-mortem donation are not feasible. for this reason, no form of remuneration should be provided for the living donor, but only compensation covering the inconvenience caused by the intervention, the amount of which will be determined by national legislation. member states should also adopt or maintain strict legal provisions in relation to transplants and non-in-breeding living donors, with the aim of making the system transparent and excluding the possibility of illicit organ sales or coercion of donors. on the other hand, they must guarantee the reimbursement of social costs for living donors and protect them against discrimination, in particular by insurance systems. parliament stressed, however, that living donation should be seen as complementary to donation after death. organ donation needs to remain strictly non-commercial, supporting measures to protect donors and ensuring that organ donation is carried out in an altruistic and voluntary manner.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are talking today about organ transplantation, which is certainly one of the most positive aspects of progress in health care, but which also raises a whole series of problems with regard to the rights of the donor and the patient, which must be tackled from an ethical, social, legal and economic point of view. it is a question of setting in motion a virtuous path that will tackle the serious imbalance between the need for and the quantity of organs available, without however undermining the principle of free and voluntary donation, thus preventing all forms of commercialisation and illegal trafficking, and guaranteeing the quality and safety of organs intended for transplantation by measures that combine confidentiality with traceability. it goes without saying that in a context of cross-border trade and of significant differences between the transplant systems adopted in the different member states, these objectives can only be achieved by promoting coordination and cooperation. in this connection i believe that it would be very important to set up a european database and to adopt common quality and safety standards. we must be careful not to introduce unnecessary rigidities or create additional bureaucratic burdens that undermine what is already being done properly and effectively. that would not only be contrary to our objectives.
madam president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today transplantation is often a denied right. there may not be a disease that is so socially and psychologically problematic, but there is a chronic gap between those on the waiting list and those who are receiving transplants. the donation procedure is very delicate from a legal and health point of view and is often weakened by procedures which are generally not very streamlined and fast, and which should instead be strengthened in terms of the response to the needs of the population. the european union must therefore work to ensure effective solidarity and voluntary action, without sacrificing the rigour of the procedures, by promoting the professionalism and the very culture of donation. the adoption of common quality standards is certainly a welcome step forward in a context in which the world health organization can make a further contribution.
the agenda calls for joint discussion on: - the report by mr ramón jáuregui atondo, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the institutional aspects of the european union's accession to the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms (2009/2241 (ini)) (a7-0144/2010), and - the statements by the council and the commission on the review conference of the rome statute of the international criminal court in kampala, uganda
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done on the accession of the european union to the convention on human rights, which is a benefit for european citizens because it will create a new court outside the european union to ensure that the rights of european citizens are always respected by the european union and the member states. the principle of democracy requires that the european union and its member states should always have the right to defend themselves, which is why i believe it is essential that every country that is a party to the convention should have a judge who explains the context of any appeal, just as i believe it is important that the european parliament should have an informal body to coordinate the exchange of information between parliament and the parliamentary assembly of the council, and that parliament should also be consulted and involved in the negotiation process. i would also add that the european citizens have a right to understand the mechanisms of this accession, and they have a right to know what their rights are. i therefore believe that it is essential that the council of europe and the european union consider drawing up guidelines, with a clear explanation of all the effects and implications that accession will entail.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this accession is certainly a sign of the european union's vocation: the european union is a global actor in the field of human rights. the european parliament has already made a commitment to this in its entire structure, and this is reflected in its history, in the fact that individual member states have already acceded to the council of europe convention, and in the repeated assertion that the general principles of the convention and those of the member states' constitutions are now part of european law. so this symbolic gesture is extremely important. but it is not so easy to translate this ideal into concrete legal rules: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i should also like to thank my colleague mr jáuregui atondo and i must also say that the afco committee, which i chair, has almost unanimously approved this document. so we are satisfied with this document and i will not dwell on the individual aspects because we fully agree with what has already been said by the president of the council and the commissioner. i would like to make one suggestion, since the statement that the european parliament's institutional presence in the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe when it meets to elect the judge and the judges has remained a little vague, i would like to say that there is a problem with the relationship between the people of europe, the european union, and the people of other countries. fortunately, the rules governing participation already state that the representation of the individual states in the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe cannot be less than two per state and no more than eighteen. perhaps 18 would be the limit i would suggest, given the importance of the european union. but i must conclude, and i must say that this resolution leaves an open problem, which is worth exploring, and it is the problem already underlined several times in the relationship between the courts, and i think that this will still have to be reflected on a little, but above all there is the problem of the european soul: we, the european union, have said in article 2 of the lisbon treaty that we are founded on human dignity, human rights and equality are founded on human dignity. we are not united on this in europe, and so we must think carefully about this concept of human dignity, its limits and its content. but it is not the subject of this resolution, of this report, which is entirely acceptable. thank you, mr. speaker.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, accession to the european court of human rights is a fundamental step for the growth of the union: the two guarantee systems will thus strengthen the protection of the fundamental rights of individuals, both within our 27 countries and outside, if we think of all the member countries of the council of europe. so here is an opportunity not to be missed and that we have been waiting for many years. the doctrine and case law of both the court of justice and the court of strasbourg have long anticipated this moment, or rather laid the foundations for this goal, because it is a goal for me, it is a goal for all of us. i cannot therefore fail to mention the importance of accession for all citizens of the union, who will thus be able to bring an action before the strasbourg court against a european institution or a member state, and will thus be even more protected. i conclude, aware that the autonomy of the two courts remains unchanged, as clearly stated and enshrined in the report - indeed, i congratulate my colleague on this report - and by the will of all of us, apart of course from cooperation between the two institutions, which respect their respective competences.
i have received a motion for a resolution. i think that is a very good point. the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 19 may 2010. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the council and commission statements on the stockholm action plan. the previous debate was very interesting, but we have exceeded the time limits, so i ask all those who will be speaking to adhere strictly to the time limits.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, 170 measures in five years are too ambitious for a programme that has no real meaning, especially in certain areas. on immigration, the programme, beyond the official documents, shows an embarrassing weakness: what is the point of promising to strengthen bodies and agencies if there is no political strategy? a very useful strategy that must be based on a few fixed points: the commission has already taken steps to combat illegal immigration along the southern border, to share the burden of illegal immigration among all the european states, and to adopt a policy of agreements with third countries, in particular by recognising that immigration is not a resource in times of crisis. the house's homepage says that more than 20% of young people in europe are unemployed. in a continent with 25 million unemployed, the home affairs commissioner says that the question of immigration must be based on solidarity. instead, we must think concretely and realistically: today's priority is to give our citizens jobs! all the rest is good-natured rhetoric that does not help the integration of immigrants or our people.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the stockholm programme is certainly an important opportunity. the commission will have to put in place a large number of positive measures to really define a common area of freedom, justice and security. the achievement of the objectives, however, requires the method of cooperation between the european institutions and between them and the member states, as an indispensable instrument of real collaboration. issues such as the regulation of migration flows in accordance with objective criteria of equity, the decorum of persons detained in prisons which are now overcrowded, the welfare of persons rehabilitated after entering the drug tunnel, the revitalization of agencies, the fight against organised crime at cross-border level, require this genuine cooperation. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter.
acting president of the council. - madam president, what really lies at the heart of this debate on the european area of freedom, security and justice is something which mr busuttil has said - i think he was right - when he spoke of european citizenship. what we are talking about here is the composition of this european citizenship, which we must deepen and which is undoubtedly one of the axes - and has certainly been for the spanish presidency - of the new political stage which is opening up in europe with the treaty of lisbon. in this connection, there was a very clear, very direct question to the council from mrs judith sargentini on what has been done during this spanish presidency and what is in the works for the future. i thank you for your direct question and i shall try to structure my answer around a few points which are all undoubtedly related to european citizenship, to the content of rights, freedoms, security and justice: in short, the status of the european citizen of the 21st century. we have been talking about freedoms before accession to the european convention on human rights. it is one of the priorities of the spanish presidency. i refer to the extensive debate we had earlier. i also believe that, in relation to freedoms and rights, we should talk about the directive on the right to interpretation and translation in criminal proceedings. that directive is being worked on, as you know. and as for a very specific directive which mrs sargentini has mentioned - the non-discrimination directive - we are waiting for the european commission to make a proposal on it in general terms. it is a very ambitious directive, a very important one. the presidency of the council certainly supports it and we are awaiting the commission's initiative. issues relating to victims have been a concern and a priority of the spanish presidency, especially victims of gender-based violence. i would like to say that progress has been made in the directive on human trafficking. on the sexual abuse directive, we are working towards a common position in june. a legislative initiative against gender-based violence is also being worked on: the european protection order, which is currently being discussed in various committees of this parliament - the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the committee on women's rights and gender equality. gender-based violence is undoubtedly the greatest scourge that exists and that produces the most victims in european societies. and the european observatory on gender violence and the victim hotline were also approved last month at the employment, social policy, health and consumers council (epsco). on security issues, the internal security strategy was adopted at the march european council. in this connection, the establishment of the standing committee on operational cooperation on internal security was approved. there have been - and are in progress - agreements with the united states on security issues: the toledo declaration on security and civil aviation; the swift issue, well known to this parliament, on which there is a negotiating mandate for a political agreement with the united states as soon as possible. we are also working with the united states on a joint declaration on the fight against terrorism and on an agreement on data protection. in matters relating to civil partnership, we hope to agree on the rome iii regulation, a law applicable to marriages. and as regards the issue of immigration and asylum, which was also mentioned in many speeches, it should be said that the spanish presidency is responsible for the first evaluation of the european pact on immigration and asylum, which it will prepare in collaboration with the commission. and at the same time, in collaboration also with the commission, a return programme for unaccompanied minors is being implemented. on the other hand, in relation to asylum, frontex operations are being maintained and work is being done on a european programme for refugees and on the resettlement of refugees and, with some countries, also on repatriation programmes. i therefore believe that, alongside the european refugee fund, which is intended to be ready by 2011 - in this sense, the tavares report of the european parliament foresees its adoption by that time - several important initiatives are under way in relation to immigration. i would complete this answer with a debate which has been very constructively taken up by the commission - namely, by commissioner reding - on the european public prosecutor provided for in the treaty of lisbon. i think that's a debate that needs to be had. it would be very interesting not only, as the treaty of lisbon says, to protect the economic interests of the union in the first place - which is very topical at the moment - but also to be able to prosecute transnational crime at a later stage. it was also a debate launched by the spanish presidency of the european union. these are some of the concrete elements which are being put into effect or have been put into effect during the spanish presidency, in collaboration with the commission and in collaboration with the european parliament. we believe it is absolutely crucial that we have credibility in building an open and secure europe that protects citizens. and it is in this spirit that the spanish presidency and the trio of presidencies to be held by our partners, belgium and hungary, want to continue. this is the aim of the spanish presidency and we are of course counting on the cooperation we are getting from the european parliament.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, everybody is talking about the stockholm programme. that is a christmas tree with several hundred wishes. i would like everybody to speak about the reality. how were these christmas tree wishes treated before the lisbon treaty? behind closed doors, without much consideration for the citizens and what they want, wish for and expect; in the third pillar, where ministers of the interior were asking neither the european parliament nor the commission, and where the european court of justice had no possibility to intervene. that is where we are starting from: an impossible situation. where de minimis decisions were not even carried out at national level, where citizens did not have the means or the instruments to go to court, to protest and to seek justice. fortunately, we now have the lisbon treaty. there is no third pillar any more. there are commission proposals, codecision, implementation at member state level, control by the european court of justice, but that means also that things cannot be done instantly any more. rules and proposals have to follow the normal way, under which you parliamentarians have asked the commission to conduct its work. first, thorough analysis of what is feasible, what is good, what has added value. second, public consultation, in order to know whether the ideas that we put on the table will be accepted or not by civil society, by industry, by the member states, by the national parliaments, which are now a player in all these questions and which conduct the subsidiarity test. and then, impact assessments, in order to see if what we are doing is the right way. and, only then, we have the definite proposal from the commission. if you want the commission to continue to do as has been done over the last number of years, just tell me, and i will come with a proposal every week. and do you know what will happen with those proposals? they will first be blocked in the national parliaments, and rightly so, because we have to come with serious proposals based on the legal assumptions that what we are doing is strong, is feasible and can be implemented in the member states. i do not want the first proposal we make to be challenged before the court of justice and before the court of human rights. i would like to lead all of us to the way where the citizens will understand that the added value of what we are doing here is of real benefit to them in practical terms. yes, as the commissioner responsible for women’s affairs, i have heard this parliament discussing what we need to do, most of all in order to give legal certainty to women in all our member states, that when they have a problem of violence they will get justice and not the illusion that they hope they will get justice and then they get nowhere and end up with nothing. so here we really have to work together. there are hundreds of measures, which have to be ‘lisbonised’, which have to be taken out of the hole and brought into the light of day, which have to be adapted to the real rules of law – hundreds of measures that do not work. the arrest warrant: ms ludford was just speaking about this. of course it is not carried out in the member states because the construction around the mutual recognition and the mutual trust, which is at the basis of the mutual recognition, has not been built up. colleagues, you cannot do all this without having mutual trust. i am sorry, i cannot by decree insert mutual trust in the heads of the judges all over europe! we have to build this mutual trust with the legislation and with the measures to boost the rights of citizens in all our member states, so that the judges also implement the rules we have been looking for and, yes, we are advancing very quickly on this. an action plan, well, the colleague is not there any more, but an action plan for combating the violence against women. in 2011 a comprehensive text about protecting the victims, all kinds of victims – for me there is not a victim here, a victim there and a third catgory of victims – all kinds of victims have to be considered. yes, we have been working on data protection; when fortunately you, parliament, said no to the way things have been working before lisbon was implemented. we will not continue like this any more and, yes, chairman of the committee, you know that your committee and the other committees are fully integrated in the way we are preceding. we will have many things to do together: very technical questions, which will have a very important impact on our society. we will have to do something; we will have to explain to the citizens what we are doing. because that is also a part of the whole thing and it is not the easiest part of the whole issue. yes, we have to take measures, for instance, on illegal immigration and asylum and, as you have seen, my colleague cecilia malmström has very concrete proposals on illegal immigration, on border controls, on legal migration. yes, it would be important if the parliament could, together with the council, adopt the existing proposals, the asylum package, the simple permit proposal, the joint resettlement programme, the mutual recognition and the just adopted action plan for unaccompanied minors. there is an awful lot in the pipeline. it is not about who is going to do what because certain things you simply cannot do. here is an example: you asked for the anti-discrimination directive. the anti-discrimination directive, i am sorry to say, is a question that has to be solved by unanimity and it is blocked in the council. so what do you want me to do – not me, because it was before my time – the commission has put anti-discrimination on the table, unanimity is blocked in the council? so speak to the council; speak with those who are blocking it. same-sex couples: well you know perfectly well that it is the prerogative of subsidiarity, the competence of member states to regulate the way they treat same-sex couples. where the european union comes in, is the cross-border treatment of these same-sex couples. but i cannot do the work for france, for italy, for poland, for romania, for greece and for luxembourg; that has to be done by those member states alone. i can see there is no discrimination if those people, from wherever they come, are exercising their rights to cross-border mobility, and that is what we are going to do. we have started already to see that, in terms of mobility, in terms of citizens rights, in terms of collaboration between the legal systems, in terms of eliminating the borders that still exist in this single market, which, sorry to say, is not a single market when it comes to citizens. that is why i am very happy; i have read the report by mario monti. there are many elements in this report, which say where we have to move. you know what is my bible? the report, which was drawn up by one of your members, contains all the elements on the free movement of citizens and all the problems that have to be solved. now what i propose to you is to take them, one by one, and solve them, one by one, in full cooperation with you. when i put on the table a proposal, and you have seen how it goes. you will have so many proposals that you will have to work at night – i do not know if it is permitted under employment rules and human rights, but i will not care for your human rights as members of parliament. we will work until we have solved these problems – there are hundreds of problems to be solved and i cannot do it alone. i need your very constructive help. i know i will get this help but help me to work on one element after the other, even if it has to be one element per week. it is going to be on your table. i am willing to come to your committees as often as you call me, madam president, and we will discuss this over, element by element. in five years’ time, with your help, we will have changed this continent.
the debate is closed.
in writing. the icelandic volcano incident and its current consequences make us think that in the event of emergencies or unexpected events, the european union should not come unprepared but must, through the management tools already in place or through new measures, protect passengers first and foremost. among these, do you not think that airlines should have proposed the purchase of railway tickets so that long queues at train ticket offices could be avoided, especially for passengers with reduced mobility?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question. how long will the euro as we have it today last? or do we start in a year, two years to its dismantling? i do not agree that by opening a new additional hole of 750 billion euros to cover a previous one, these measures are sufficient to build the economic and social future of 500 million europeans, nor do i agree with the dogma of saving the euro as it is, because this would be done by keeping the euro as low as possible, by reducing the interest rate to direct capital towards productive investments, for our industries, which are asthmatic, rather than towards financial returns. i do not agree with a european commission which pretends to examine and revise the budgetary misstatements of the member states in advance of the national parliaments, a complete abdication of sovereignty. i do not agree with an economic and financial strategy which does not take account of specific needs.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, guy verhofstadt has denounced the inadequacy of both nationalist and marxist rhetoric in order to get out of the crisis. i'll try the europeanist rhetoric: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. what is the purpose of europe if not to support the member states in their need? but what good is the euro and the eurogroup if they do not foster a culture of responsibility and stability? what happens if solidarity becomes synonymous with a european union which, in breach of the treaties, pays the bill for those countries which sacrifice responsibility for the future of their citizens to the ephemeral consensus of a season? is it europeanist rhetoric, commissioner, if we ask the european commission to be independent and authoritative and to have no regard for governments that cheat? is it pro-european rhetoric if we ask for new rules for the financial markets? is it europeanist rhetoric if we denounce the errors in the construction of the euro, which are not yet matched by common policies on taxation and pensions? it is true that we are in the midst of a crisis, but this crisis has not been caused by an excess of europe, by too much europe, but by an insufficiency of europe, by too little europe, a europe which must forcefully call the states to responsibility, to stability, to service towards future generations; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a europe of the peoples and not a europe of the states! the crisis we are experiencing is the crisis of a european policy incapable of governing the market and to save the euro we must strengthen the political institutions, get out of the intergovernmental logic and allow a european governance. this is not rhetoric, because a few minutes ago in berlin german chancellor angela merkel sounded an alarm, saying that the euro is in danger. the commission's proposal is to be seen as a step in the right direction, and it is not a step in the wrong direction. let us imagine the market reactions in these hours, if just a few minutes ago the euro collapsed again. when we leave this chamber, mr president, we may find ourselves poorer and more insecure. only a new european governance will enable us to defend the single currency, to promote growth, employment and social inclusion. we must abandon the old approach to national policy coordination and equip ourselves with strong decision-making tools. a new european governance must ensure three action plans: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the community. the 750 billion maxi-plan was important, but we have realised that it is not enough. what is needed now is a strong political initiative, one that can drive the market and enable a high mobility of resources. monetary and fiscal policies are proving inadequate to guarantee productivity and competitiveness. we must not be afraid to invest, especially in projects of community interest: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. and this parliament, mr president, has a great responsibility: the european council in madrid in december last year stressed the need to strengthen the capacity of the member states to withdraw from intergovernmental politics and to revive a european spirit.
mr president, i apologize, but i would like to take this opportunity to remind the presidency that it must ensure that the air links between strasbourg and the capitals of europe are direct and do not create any inconvenience to the fact that it takes three or four planes to get to strasbourg. please intervene as appropriate. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, accession to the european convention is undoubtedly a step forward in the process of political integration of the union, whose system of protection of fundamental rights is completed and strengthened by the incorporation of the charter of fundamental rights into its primary law. we consider it of enormous political value and importance that the european parliament should be given the right to nominate and send a number of representatives to the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe for the election of judges to the european court of human rights. we recall that the promotion of respect for human rights is a fundamental value of the european union, already enshrined in its founding treaty. i would also like to stress the importance of the convention and the case law of the european court of human rights for the development of a new legal and regulatory framework, with the indication of guiding principles in the field of civil liberties, justice and home affairs, especially in the light of the new forms of integration and harmonization initiated with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and the adoption of the stockholm programme. it will also provide an additional legal instrument, namely the possibility to lodge a complaint with the european court of human rights in relation to an action or omission by an institution of the european union or a member state in the context of the implementation of union law. finally, we must not forget the provision in article 1 of the european convention, which guarantees the protection not only of citizens of the european union and of other persons within the territory of the union, but also of all those who fall within its jurisdiction, even if they are outside its territory.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am in favour of the european union's accession to the european convention on human rights because, as the atondo report summarises, it represents progress in the process of european integration, which implies a step forward towards political union, a strong signal of the coherence between the union and the countries belonging to the council of europe and its human rights regime, which will strengthen the union's credibility with third countries, and finally a clear will to harmonise the issue of fundamental rights and freedoms at the legislative and jurisprudential level. the treaty of lisbon makes the european union, for the first time, an international legal entity with its own legal personality. i hope that the signing of the convention will be just one of the first steps towards establishing the european union as a single actor in major international negotiations.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i may seem to be repeating what i said yesterday in connection with mr tavares' report, but the refugee problem is a european problem and cannot be left to the national governments to deal with, also because of the geographical and economic differences. i therefore welcome the creation of a fund at european union level. the creation of this fund must have a twofold value, both in support of the refugees who arrive in our countries, often on our shores, in search of help, and in support of those states which, given their geographical position, are the main recipients of these desperate people. the problem is and must be a european problem and cannot be left to the management of a few states. i hope that the fund is only the beginning of a process which will bring the whole issue closer to europe and to solidarity.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of the recast directive on the labelling of energy products is to extend the scope of the information to be included on the label to all products which affect energy consumption and not just household appliances. the directive is part of the energy efficiency action plan and also provides for incentive and public procurement initiatives: it will therefore be at the heart of an integrated and environmentally sustainable product policy. one of the most controversial points was the type of scale to be used to avoid confusion for the consumer: the commission has decided to keep the a to g scale closed, even after the european parliament adopted a resolution to that effect. the energy efficiency class will also be included in all advertising containing information on energy consumption or on the price of products. i therefore agree with mrs podimata's approach and support the report.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the energy labelling directive plays a crucial role in achieving the community's target of reducing energy consumption by 20% by 2020. it is a major added value for both the market and consumers. in fact, the obligation to refer to the energy label in advertisements will put an end to the disinformation of final consumers, providing them with all the information they need to make fully informed choices. at the same time, following parliament's strong insistence, the introduction of an open classification was avoided and the model based on a classification from a to g, which has already proved very useful for consumers, was maintained. in addition, the addition of a review clause also allows for a thorough reassessment, in the light of technological developments and consumer understanding of the label, by 2014 at the latest. this is a further guarantee that the current classification, which is easily understood by consumers, will remain unchanged at least until the review takes place. i therefore wholeheartedly reiterate my full support for the directive.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the motion, which may seem demagogic or an additional privilege of caste, but in this case it is not. the amendments to the budget are important and fundamental to the proper management of parliament's life and work. as meps, we are called upon to do a much more important and important job after the adoption of the treaty of lisbon. we need therefore to have partners and experts who can assist us in our daily work. to do this, resources are needed, and these resources will be translated, by me and i hope by all my colleagues, into even more effective, efficient and targeted work.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the discharge procedure is an important procedure and a key element in the legislative and control activities of this parliament. i am not here to recall the power which this parliament has acquired over the years, thanks also to the budgetary procedure, thanks to which it has succeeded in making the accountability of the european institutions a serious and important matter. it is also essential in the light of what the citizens expect from us. at a time of crisis such as the present, when european citizens are called upon to make extraordinary sacrifices, it is necessary to implement a careful and punctual monitoring of expenditure linked to bureaucracy or actual management. i congratulate the rapporteur on this and express my favourable opinion.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote in favour of the report by mr mikolasik. the growing need for organs available for transplantation in a context of cross-border trade and the significant differences between the transplantation systems adopted by the different member states require enhanced cooperation and common standards on the quality and safety of organs. the proposal for a directive aims to achieve these objectives by increasing the number of transplants and raising the quality standards in the donation, procurement, control, storage, transport and transplantation processes. it also aims to guarantee the rights of donors and patients by emphasising the principle of voluntary donation against the practices of marketing and trafficking in organs. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's institutions.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, organ transplantation is without doubt one of the most positive aspects of progress in health care, but it also raises a whole series of problems with regard to the rights of the donor and the patient, which must be tackled on the ethical, social, legal and economic levels. it is a question of setting in motion a virtuous path that will tackle the serious imbalance between the need for and the quantity of organs available, without however undermining the principle of free and voluntary donation, thus preventing all forms of commercialisation and illegal trafficking, and guaranteeing the quality and safety of organs intended for transplantation by measures that combine confidentiality with traceability. the adoption of common quality standards is certainly a welcome step forward in a perspective in which the world health organization can make a further contribution. however, in setting up a european database care must be taken not to introduce unnecessary rigidities or create additional bureaucratic burdens which undermine what is already being done correctly and effectively.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, consumer protection is one of the european parliament's main concerns. the european consumer is often unaware of the products and additives contained in the products he is about to buy. clearly, the importance of clear and precise labelling is obvious, but it is necessary that we, as legislators, ban certain harmful products. although the draft commission directive does not allow the use of thrombin as a food additive in meat dishes served in restaurants or other public establishments serving food, there is nevertheless a clear risk that meat containing thrombin will run out of such dishes, given the higher prices that can be charged for pieces of meat served as a single cut of meat. the labelling conditions contained in the draft commission directive would not prevent consumers from being given a false and misleading impression that a product is made up of a single cut of meat and that there is therefore a risk that consumers will be misled and prevented from making an informed choice regarding the consumption of meat products containing thrombin. i therefore agree with the resolution.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ensuring quality and safety for patients at eu level, ensuring the protection of donors and facilitating cooperation between member states are the three fundamental objectives when it comes to organ donation and transplantation. a european approach to this issue is important, also given the mobility of our patients within the european union. in general, there is a broad social consensus in the european union on organ donation for transplantation, however, due to different cultural backgrounds, traditions and organisational systems, there are differences in approach between member states. we have countries with a high rate of donation, while others where the culture of donation has yet to develop. sharing best practices, models and experiences within the european union could be very useful in increasing the rate of organ donation. cooperation should be encouraged in order to identify the success factors of the different transplant systems and to promote them at european level, with a view to improving the guarantees of high quality and safety in the field of organ donation and transplantation. for these reasons, i am voting in favour.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the importance of the european union's accession to the echr is linked both to its symbolic and political value and to the fact that it will make it more stringent for the eu and its institutions to guarantee the fundamental rights of individuals. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon provides the legal basis for the opening of negotiations on eu accession to the echr. i support the accession of the european union to the european convention on human rights. however, it is essential to ensure that certain guarantees are respected, which must be contained in the agreement on the accession of the union to the echr. in particular, to preserve the specific features of the union and of union law, accession should not affect the union's competences or the obligation of the ms not to submit disputes falling within the scope of eu law to external dispute settlement systems. finally, the court of justice's prerogatives should be safeguarded if the strasbourg court is called upon to rule on the compatibility of an eu act with fundamental rights before the court of justice has had the opportunity to do so.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done on the accession of the european union to the convention on human rights, which is a benefit for european citizens because it will create a new court outside the european union to ensure that the rights of european citizens are always respected by the european union and the member states. the principle of democracy requires that the european union and its member states should always have the right to defend themselves, which is why i believe it is essential that every country that is a party to the convention should have a judge who explains the context of any appeal, just as i believe it is important that the european parliament should have an informal body to coordinate the exchange of information between parliament and the parliamentary assembly of the council, and that parliament should also be consulted and involved in the negotiation process.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i can only express my agreement with the motion for a resolution on the conference on the review of the rome statute of the international criminal court in kampala, uganda. europe itself was born out of the need to put an end to the expressions of racial hatred which culminated in the atrocities of the second world war. the european union has always been consistent in its desire to strengthen cooperation between states in order to identify and prosecute crimes against humanity. it is right that eight years after the entry into force of the rome statute, the states should emphatically reaffirm their commitment to consolidating peace, stability and the rule of law. in particular, states should engage in policies aimed at cooperation with the international criminal court and the protection of victims of violence. it is clear that in many cases victims have great difficulty in accessing information about the court and are unable to see their rights protected.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, eur 38 billion is the amount of funds earmarked for the programming of cohesion policy for the period 2007-13. so far, europe has spent and, given the results, thrown away some of the priorities set out in lisbon. for the eu 2020 to be successful and for the mountains of money left to spend to be used to stimulate economic growth and support competitiveness, two orders of action are needed: the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the simplification as a keyword to free access to these resources from the paralyzing bureaucracy: the region, citizens and businesses want to be able to act more fluidly to unlock their potential! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. never before has cohesion policy been able to demonstrate its multi-level governance, giving a real voice to the problems of our territory and formulating the long-awaited answers from brussels on the future of our social and economic model. the task of those who, like the european union, are now dealing with the figures we are discussing, is to be strict in the monitoring of the projects supported and to fight against waste. only then will the eu 2020 strategy not be a bad copy of a bad original!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that an industrial policy which is focused only on high-tech international companies is not destined to succeed. we must not forget the whole sector of small and mediumsized enterprises, including craft and commercial enterprises. they too must be the focus of innovation policy. this strategy must ensure that smes in particular are on a level playing field with non-eu competitors, through the adoption of safeguard clauses and drastic and effective measures against the very serious problem of counterfeiting, including effective trade defence instruments. the governance of the europe 2020 strategy should not remain in the hands of the commission alone, but should be at various levels, including national and macro-regional. we must begin to think of a policy, a strategy, which is centred on the territories, on the productive realities and i want to remind you of the great attention that must be paid to the productive realities of the padania sector. in other words, we are calling for greater attention to the productive realities of real production, with particular attention, i repeat, to the structure of small and mediumsized enterprises which throughout europe constitute the nerve of our production and therefore the real hope for a future of production and development in the european union.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that we are all running a grave risk, namely that we are being overly influenced by the emergency. after the action taken with the creation of the fund to defend the euro, to help countries in difficulty and to stop speculation, it is undeniable that the discussion here too has focused a great deal on the issues of recovery and stability, ignoring everything else. these are matters which concern the states. the concentration of attention has been so great that even the financial and banking systems, and therefore the problems of supervision and regulation, have been pushed to the back of the net, almost forgotten. i am convinced that we need to have a context in policy-making. it is no coincidence that the pact was called "stability and growth". it would have been even more accurate to call it "stability for growth". we need to get back to growth and development. it's the main way to stop speculation but to give confidence to investors, to ordinary investors. without proposals on growth - i am thinking of fiscal uniformity, which mario monti is talking about, i am thinking of the resources to invest, the eurobonds to be made available, and i am thinking of the instruments of cohesion, because cohesion is a very important factor in competitiveness - we will hardly be able to create the positive climate that is indispensable, especially these days!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the launch of the european union's strategy for 2020 effectively closes a phase, that of the lisbon strategy, and it must deal with the negative and structural effects that the financial, economic and social crisis has produced and continues to produce. i believe that the 2020 strategy must focus on two key elements in order to be effective: the first is a system for assessing progress, including the use of the mechanism of rewards and penalties. the second is a vigorous policy of investment in infrastructure, as well as, of course, instruments for the governance of the financial system and policies for the recovery of dialogue and social cohesion. infrastructure is the axis for the relaunch of innovation policies in industry, in small and mediumsized enterprises, in the context of production consortia, of research institutes, in their relationship with universities and institutions in the vicinity. that is why the van nistelrooij report is to be welcomed with appreciation, because in addition to giving us a thorough overview of the work done so far in the member states, it begins to work on the criteria for harmonizing financial instruments and operational programmes aimed at innovation. the harmonization of rules, procedures and administrative practices for the management of european projects, the simplification and streamlining of procedures are the answers that our local and regional actors and citizens have been asking for a long time. i believe that europe can and must do a great deal to promote growth, development and employment.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ten years after the launch of the lisbon strategy and on the eve of the europe 2020 strategy, in the midst of an economic but also a social and employment crisis, we know that we cannot get out of this crisis, we cannot lay the foundations for new sustainable growth, a new social cohesion - as you said - unless we strengthen the european union's mechanisms and instruments to support investment in the knowledge triangle policies: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of education, training and research. you said a moment ago, commissioner, that some european governments are doing well in this respect, others are doing a little less well. in order not to fall within the limits set by the lisbon strategy, the commission must, in my view, strengthen the open method of coordination with the member states, provide for incentives and penalties in the european social fund and monitor the results. i do not think it is consistent for governments, including the italian government, to cut eight billion euros in education and universities in three years without reinvesting in these areas, even though we have 19% of school dropouts and 25% of youth unemployment. finally, i would ask you whether you do not think that it is appropriate to strengthen the legal framework of directive 2005/36/ec in order to facilitate the mutual recognition of professional qualifications between member states. according to professor monti's report, less than 3% of european workers are now working in another member state, and one of the reasons seems to be precisely this difficulty in mutual recognition of qualifications.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to comment on what has happened in the past decade, 2000 to 2010, with regard to lisbon. it is true that many of us, even after what happened in 2008-2009, were not entirely satisfied with the results achieved. but there is no doubt that this decade was a decade of expectations and hopes, and of hard work to achieve the objectives that had been set, especially in the field of employment. today we are facing a new decade which is more problematic, more difficult, and in comparison with the proposals which have been put forward so far, i share some of them, although i still see too much dispersion when i read them in depth. i would like to dwell a great deal on the guiding principles of this proposal and limit myself to thinking about growth and employment. more jobs, more economic growth: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and so the goals we set ourselves are too ambitious and sometimes there are rigidities. so, perhaps a little less ambition, a little more flexibility, and the growth and employment targets are achievable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the last two years have left millions of people unemployed, have led to further public debt that will last for many years to come, and have brought new pressures and new tears to our social cohesion. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial contribution to the european agricultural guidance and guarantee fund (eaggf) is based on the principle of the european agricultural guarantee fund (eaggf) and the principle of the european agricultural guarantee fund (eaggf). three of these, commissioner, seem to me to be priorities: the first is certainly the stability of monetary and national budgets, but this cannot be separated from development and economic growth. investing in research and innovation to make our industrial system more competitive and our production of higher quality. favouring small and medium-sized enterprises, favouring emerging sectors such as digital and sustainable energy, and of course the infrastructure system. the overall level of education must be raised, but above all training must be complementary to the needs of the labour market and the production system. it is paradoxical that the enterprise system still requires specialisation which the market is not in a position to provide. it is clear that each objective and each action must be related to the national context, albeit within the framework of a broader european strategy. i would like to conclude by saying that the greek crisis and the economic and employment crisis in the whole of europe are proof that to ensure social cohesion, development and budgetary stability, strong and sound economic governance at european level is necessary to enable the european institutions, including parliament, to act effectively and preventively.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have heard a lot today and it has been quite useful, but i must also draw attention to one aspect which i consider important: i think we are unable to place this whole strategy in a market context which is currently distorted, subject to constant speculation and in deep crisis. as we are making a europe 2020 argument, we have to take account of a situation like this. i would divide the reasoning into two parts: first, the market must be at the service of the real economy and not vice versa. secondly, i believe that europe must be the driving force behind this economy. the first part has been discussed a great deal and it is urgent to start covering this market so that we are not dependent on anyone, but what is important is the pull, so to pull we also need the possibilities. we have the courage to change this budget, we have the courage to take on the responsibility of forming an important fund which will serve as financial cover, but above all which can set in motion the ten-t, ten-e and e-ten networks, that is, this is the pull we must bring to the territory and to also bring the real economy, the private sector, into the ppp system, this is the task, mr commissioner, which we must do absolutely immediately, because the crisis is not over, the crisis is with us and we must give this strong push at this moment.
the committee on budgets - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak on behalf of our rapporteur, mr schmidt, who - as president buzek announced at the beginning of this part-session - has resigned as a member of the european parliament to take up posts in his own country, and to whom i extend my greetings and good wishes because he has done a very good job. this report is the fruit of his intentions, which we approved by a very large majority in our committee on culture with only one vote against, and for this, on behalf of mr schmidt, i also thank all the shadow rapporteurs who worked on this report. before leaving for strasbourg, i went to rome on monday to visit a private training centre which is very successful because it is able to place the vast majority of the young people it trains over time. and he said to me, "you know, i'm not going to be a doctor. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. help us also to modernise the relationship between universities and enterprises". and the point of this report is right here: today 20% of young europeans are unemployed and among these, about 30% have a university degree, a high, very high percentage, which raises many questions about how the phenomenon of training young people for entry into the world of work is being dealt with in europe today, in this globalised world. so we wanted to work in this report to improve the link between universities and enterprises by identifying some focal points: first, by giving priority to one of the greatest strengths the european union can have, namely the fact that its citizens can adapt to the constantly changing circumstances of the labour market; the fact that the concept of a job for life no longer exists and that vocational training and retraining are essential today. so the first point was lifelong learning, and the second point that we found to be fundamental is mobility. it is important today, as we emphasize in this report, to stress that mobility between countries and between universities and between businesses is fundamental to achieving greater cooperation between the two worlds and we urge not only to extend and expand individual mobility programmes such as erasmus for young entrepreneurs and erasmus for apprentices, but also to organise postgraduate programmes of european excellence, in cooperation with various universities and with the active participation of businesses. and also, encourage more entrepreneurship in the university. this can be achieved, for example, by introducing a knowledge hub system similar to that currently used in some member states, which allows, in particular, small and medium-sized enterprises to improve their research capacities without affecting the independence, autonomy and public character of the university. the third key point is research, and we consider it essential to promote the transfer of knowledge and the increased mobility of researchers, both in the short and long term, across national borders and between academia and business. and finally, the possibility of extending the good practices which exist in many national states in this respect. i conclude, mr president, by imagining how, through this report and the fine work done by the committee on which we have worked, we are convinced that europe will not win the battle against china or other low-wage emerging countries, but with highly qualified professionals and highly competitive companies and in this process it is of the utmost importance that universities and businesses recognise their interdependence and that authorities at all levels help to develop more efficient ways of cooperation.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after the first assessment of the lisbon strategy, the european union is already looking ahead to the next ten years. a key priority of europe 2020 is smart growth based on both the knowledge economy and innovation. the key to walking along this road is the integration of secondary and tertiary education with the labour market. the route to be followed brings a renewed focus on the world of work together with learning for personal competence, or the so-called knowledge triangle. europe can therefore ensure its relevance on the international scene if it acts in science and innovation in a more united manner and involving all those who can determine both growth and development. in this sense, university evaluation systems are more than appropriate for establishing and measuring standards of efficiency and quality. it is therefore time to move towards that new dimension of european unity known as the 'fifth freedom' or the free movement of knowledge and talent. the commission's proposal is to make it easier for young researchers to work in the community by establishing links with companies to meet their development needs. to achieve these goals, more investment is needed in programmes such as erasmus. this encourages study outside national territories with certain academic recognition for students.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i thank you for your lively debate, your many suggestions and ideas. i think there was broad agreement in the house that dialogue between universities and the world of work and business can be beneficial for all those involved, for the universities themselves, the researchers, the professors, the students, for the companies and for society as a whole. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is about knowledge transfer, dialogue and information exchange during education and lifelong learning, cooperation in basic research, and more practical approach to education beyond the theoretical by looking at economic value creation and production. the economic sector has a complementary role, not a superseding one, and it is crucial that research and teaching remain free. she chooses to do it, not because of politics. we need a win-win situation where the institutions of science and education on the one hand and of research and industry on the other say yes to this partnership. freedom of research and teaching does not mean floating in empty space, but being integrated into a society and a world of work. i therefore think that the report is a good assessment and also provides clarity on where we want to go in order to strengthen our universities and to strengthen the competitiveness of the economy and technology in europe. we want to make a small contribution with our forum, to provide a platform and we will now look at how the activities of our forum can be complemented. the report is a good basis and a reference work for this. thank you very much for that.
the committee on budgets - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank the commission again for its communication, which we have largely adopted. i would just like to focus on a perhaps critical aspect that has emerged in this debate, because someone has stressed how fundamental the independence of the universities, the freedom of research, public funding is. we all agree on this, and i do not understand these critical remarks very well, because one has only to read the report and in the very first paragraphs we write very clearly, that is to say, we stress the need to preserve the intellectual and financial independence of universities from the business world and that no relationship of dependence of universities on business can be established. it also stresses that universities should, in all circumstances, retain autonomy in decision-making on their curricula and governance structures. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a clear answer to this question. so let us really think about it, because this report sets the conditions for a real improvement of our young people and our students, because nobody really wants to leave hundreds of thousands of young people in the hands of companies whose purpose is not clear, but only wants hundreds of thousands of students to have the opportunity to study, to train and to really work in the society that awaits us.
in writing. we are tired of hearing our young people say: "they'd hire me if i had experience, but nobody gives me the chance to do it". the current economic crisis has hit them particularly hard, and even before that they were having difficulty accessing the world of work and building a sustainable future. unemployment among those under 25 in the eu is 21.4%: that's twice the population average. the data are not encouraging: unemployment rates seem destined to rise, and we are concerned that at 30, brilliantly prepared young people are not yet able to enjoy the economic autonomy necessary to build a family, to be independent, to invest in their future. to prove, i mean, what they're worth and grow as people. we want a european union based on the centrality of the person. our young people must be able to count on a strong and continuous link between the training they receive in universities and a world of work that is able to offer them opportunities for integration consistent with what they have learned during their studies. we call for coordination between universities and businesses, for a review of european programmes for young people and of the systems of reliefs and incentives for companies that employ them, for greater attention to computer science, so that youth policies can be integrated into all areas of policy-making and discussion.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the euro-mediterranean region is a strategic area of european union policy: we cannot tackle fundamental issues such as the environment, religious values, culture, infrastructure, agriculture, energy, security and migration flows without the responsible participation of third countries bordering the mediterranean. the cooperation framework, however, still has a long way to go, one might say from barcelona to barcelona looking further. the european union must do more to renew and review the individual association agreements with third countries bordering the mediterranean, and it must finance major strategic projects, such as infrastructure and ports. on the other hand, similar products on both sides of the mediterranean, especially agricultural products, must be strongly protected in order to ensure sustainable development and a regulatory framework that is as homogeneous as possible. we therefore call for a strengthening of the european union's governance role with the mediterranean countries, in order to affirm a fundamental principle, namely that cooperation is political success, business success in a framework of increased guarantees for the protection of the individual. i would then like to suggest to mrs benarab-attou that she attack - it is right to do so - mr albertini, but in his presence, to ensure that mr albertini, who is authoritatively leading the committee, has a defence, which is a fundamental feature of any democratically elected assembly.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that we are taking a very important step forward with the adoption of this report and it will also be very useful in view of the barcelona summit on 7 june, which, as we know, is proving difficult given the impasse in the negotiations between the israelis and the palestinians and also because of some uncertainty and difficulties in defining the administrative structure of the new structure of the secretariat. the peillon report addresses these problems in the only way possible: stressing, on the one hand, that conflicts must not hinder the possibility of making concrete progress towards sectoral and multilateral cooperation and recognising, on the other hand, that there can be no full and complete success of the union for the mediterranean without the resolution of these conflicts. the real challenge now is therefore a strong and clear political commitment from the barcelona summit, finally putting the structures of the new institution in a position to function and to commit to providing the necessary funds for the major projects which are its main objective. europe must be aware that it must reorient its political and economic efforts and its interests to the south, because that is where it can find the solutions to many of the problems facing it today.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, an independent researcher, gabriele del grande, has been keeping online for years the death records of those who attempt to cross the mediterranean in boats operated by organised crime. his meticulous accounting of the death toll came to 4,200, 18 of whom were killed last march: it's a real hecatomb. in lampedusa, the elderly cemetery keeper has for years been volunteering to give a dignified burial with a cross and a flower for each of the few bodies that are recovered. these two european citizens are also acting on our behalf, they are also acting to compensate for our political failure. their voluntary commitment signals the urgency of a new architecture and political substance different from the forced returns to sea adopted by the italian government in defiance of international law, which only add to despair. the union for the mediterranean is therefore a new humanity, taking into account that time is short! today more than half the population from morocco to turkey is under the age of 18. the mediterranean is therefore destined to change rapidly.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the continuity of the mediterranean peoples is manifesting itself today, as mr rinaldi has also mentioned, above all through the epochal phenomenon of immigration. this is a factor which the european union must consider as a priority, because the migratory flows give rise to, and have been able to give rise to, human, social, cultural and economic problems which will be the very future of the two different shores of the mediterranean. and the closeness of the peoples of the mediterranean is also reflected in the relationship of economic and social cooperation within the european economic area and between the european union and the mediterranean countries. in this sense, our deep-rooted presence at all levels in the region must make us the first to act to prevent the union for the mediterranean from falling into the contradictions of barcelona. how many mistakes, how many mistakes, how many times we thought we were making progress and instead we were taking steps backwards! what is needed, therefore, is first of all a social, cultural and human dialogue based on mutual understanding and the promotion of the good values on which our civilizations are founded, but this is an essential factor for the success of cooperation, first and foremost on the economic level. the increase in agreements and trade has helped and will continue to help to develop balanced economic and social relations between the parties. the european union must continue to work towards the establishment of a common security policy and the establishment of a common foreign and security policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the summit of heads of state and government in barcelona on 7 and 8 june is undoubtedly an important occasion for the concrete launching of the union for the mediterranean. it is therefore an extraordinary moment to create the lasting foundations for genuine and stronger cooperation for peace and security. this is why it is necessary to make the best use of this opportunity to develop a development strategy and to define projects that will give a boost to the area and promote economic growth. i hope that the meeting will strengthen initiatives such as solar energy for peace and desertec, which are important tools for creating an interdependent regional energy market. finally, ufm will have to strengthen scientific and technological research and innovation, using existing research institutes to increase the competitiveness of local enterprises, which are too weak to face the challenges of the global market. i am convinced that the growth of the union can strengthen a united europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it must be a political priority for the european parliament to contribute to the full success of the next barcelona summit, after two years of stalemate since the paris conference in 2008. many of the objectives are still being mentioned today, from the fight against illegal immigration to the fight against human rights violations, but there is also an important economic aspect: the mediterranean offers enormous potential for renewable energy. the mediterranean solar plan and industrial initiatives such as desertec, involving businesses and universities, should therefore be strongly supported in order to implement concrete cooperation projects. the peace process, which is a priority, must be accompanied by a process of economic development, precisely to ensure the necessary social cohesion which can help overcome conflicts.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the european union must give greater support to the union for the mediterranean project, both politically and financially. the summit of the 43 heads of state or government of the union for the mediterranean will take place in barcelona on 7 june, and as the european parliament we must hope that this event will be a success in terms of the launching of the institutions of the union for the mediterranean and the implementation of projects. as the epp shadow rapporteur for the itre committee's opinion, i have focused on issues which i consider important, such as the creation of a free trade area in the mediterranean countries, the involvement of the research and education sector, the development of broadband and information technology, and the increase in opportunities for small and mediumsized enterprises. on this last point in particular, small and mediumsized enterprises and entrepreneurial development are already one of the strategic sectors. large projects must be adequately supported by european and international financial institutions and new projects will therefore have to strive to involve as many european partners as possible.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, despite the establishment of the union and the fixing of the summit of heads of state and government, there is still a lack of a clear definition of mediterranean policy by the european union and a long-term strategic vision for the development and stabilisation of the region. the mediterranean has enormous potential: a third of the world's shipping traffic now moves through the mediterranean, from china, asia, european countries, india and through suez into our waters. the countries bordering the mediterranean, the middle east and africa, are advanced developing countries and we need them in certain key areas, such as migration flows. the operational institutional architecture of the union for the mediterranean should therefore be better defined, providing the secretariat with financial resources and criteria for accession and implementation of projects. some key points: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the community. paul morand, a french diplomat and writer, said: "the mediterranean is above all the civilization of the ante-desert". let us make that statement our own!
in writing. the barcelona process was blocked for political reasons, primarily because of regional conflicts in the mediterranean area, but technically it is still active, as shown by the major integration projects that the union is supporting with its own funding and the progress made in defining the institutional structure of the ufm. since its establishment in naples in 2003, the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly has been coordinating and democratically monitoring the implementation of these projects, which address the various regional challenges: marine pollution, transport, renewable energy, education, small and medium-sized enterprises and civil protection. but the political impetus needed to launch the euro-mediterranean strategy was lacking. the resolution on the union for the mediterranean is an important political act which, after more than two decades of intense efforts to enlarge to the east, draws the attention of the council, the commission and the member states to the need to change their geopolitical horizons and to put the promotion of relations with the countries of the mediterranean basin back at the centre of their foreign policy, starting from the definition of a united position on the middle east conflict.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too congratulate mr kirilov on his excellent work in an area full of difficulties but also of opportunities, such as relations between the countries of the european union and the countries of the south caucasus. europe has launched an interesting eastern partnership project, which has been shared and of interest to armenia, georgia and azerbaijan. but the challenges to be faced are many and include energy, economic and political issues, especially security, as in the case of georgia, the nagorno-karabakh issue and the tensions between turkey and armenia. the development of relations between the european union and these three countries will be much more effective if a climate of mutual cooperation is established between armenia, georgia and azerbaijan, in compliance with the principle of territorial integrity and the un resolutions which form the basis for the settlement of the unresolved conflicts in the area. it is important to reiterate the policy of the european union which has always advocated the inviolability of the borders of a state, borders which cannot be altered under any circumstances by the use of military force.
to report that on the hoang ngoc report my machine did not work. my vote is no.
in writing. - mr president, this owninitiative report contains very positive ideas for the future of our universities. any change in the academic training system which helps to modernise training programmes and, above all, to bring graduates closer to the world of work is to be welcomed and strongly encouraged. the european university system, one of the most important elements on which our realities can build the foundations for a solid and lasting economic recovery, needs to be opened up to the world of work: building a strong link of mutual exchange between universities and enterprises is a priority for the institutions of the member states and it will be mainly the local and regional authorities that will have a leading role in promoting the virtuous meeting between the business world and the world of education. only universities that have a dialogue with the enterprises in their respective territories can hope to train young people who are ready to enter and remain permanently in the labour market. we all need, now and forever, training institutions that are up to date and above all that meet the needs of the territory: i am sure that this too is an essential ingredient for the growth of our regions. i therefore vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - mr president, the world economic and financial crisis is having a worrying effect on the sustainability of national budgets, but the report to the house contains passages which do not allow me to vote in favour. first, paragraph 59 argues that the exit from the crisis can be facilitated by broadening the employment base and proposes the adoption of policies favourable to immigration from non-eu countries which even lead to the granting of citizenship. on the one hand, the text wrongly confuses the economic issue with that of migration policies, failing to take account, among other things, of the already high unemployment rate. on the other hand, i do not think that europe should favour the granting of citizenship. the commission is also proposing to introduce a tax on financial transactions and a european credit rating agency. the introduction of a new tax cannot bring about better regulation of the financial markets. finally, the proposal for a regulation does not deal with the creation of a public rating agency, since the best way to protect investor confidence is to guarantee the impartiality and independence of rating agencies, not to subject them to political influence.
in writing. - the difficulties which the political, social and economic heterogeneity of europe's heritage as a large but still heterogeneous territory has always highlighted have been reflected, since the 1980s, in the formulation of cohesion policy. cyclically, as europe moved from one programming period to another, it was faced with the need to update its cohesion objectives. it has done so by renewing itself both in terms of the means, where the structural funds have been, are and will continue to be the indispensable financial basis of all community policies aimed at increasing the degree of internal cohesion, and in terms of the ends towards which the various objectives and individual actions have been constantly reoriented in accordance with the demands of the situation. i am in favour of the report by mr lastra: the eu2020 strategy must be part of the cohesion policy objectives for the period 2007-2013, supported by the territorial cohesion objective and by the concrete implementation of the objectives at local level. only in this way will the danger be avoided that, like the lisbon strategy, the eu2020 strategy will be resolved in the self-celebration of the eurocracy.
in writing. - mr president, the union for the mediterranean is an ambitious project with certain undoubtedly positive aspects, especially as regards the future possibility of strengthening, through this political and economic partnership, the instruments for controlling immigration and countering the flows of illegal immigrants that have affected the mediterranean in recent years. europe can also benefit from the prospect of a forum for dialogue with the mediterranean countries, which are almost always transit countries for the majority of illegal immigrants who reach the southern coasts of the continent. the dialogue channel that will open up must not be interpreted as a means of facilitating flows but of regulating and countering illegality. the community's economic policy is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis of the community's economic policy. the european union, therefore, if it is built on a solid political foundation and with clearly defined objectives, will enable us to help those people who today want to land en masse on the shores of southern europe. i am also in favour of the idea of giving greater weight to the issue of migration at the forthcoming summits of the union for the mediterranean.
in writing. - mr president, by voting in favour of the peillon report we all recognised that the mediterranean basin is an area of crucial importance and that, in a multipolar and interdependent world, large integrated regional bodies such as the mediterranean will be better able to respond to social, cultural, economic, environmental, demographic, political and security challenges. the mediterranean brings together all these challenges, which are crucial for the stability of the whole region and which require synergistic and decisive action. at the next meeting in barcelona, the euromed heads of state and government will meet again to assess the progress made by the union for the mediterranean. there are, in my view, three political considerations which must be made in that circumstance: (a) the slow progress in building up the institutional framework, which was agreed in paris at the time, and the failure to exploit the parliamentary dimension of apem; (b) the inadequacy of financial resources and of the synergies put in place; while acknowledging the progress and the great practical commitment of some of our countries, including italy, the overall impact of the ufm in creating an area of economic prosperity remains small. the difficulty of resolutely addressing issues such as peace, stability and security, which is essential to give the ufm a political dimension and a unity of purpose.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, stopping the guns, removing the censorship, i think that is the double action that the commission must strive to achieve with the utmost determination, but also with the utmost consistency, with those values which are indispensable for this parliament. in a climate of civil war such as that which is brewing in thailand, but in a climate in which the return to democracy through free elections, first negotiated, first desired, now a moment put in place, must pass through a fundamental step, which is that of the awareness of the closeness of the international community to the thai people and its return to a complete democracy. for the international community to be involved in this phase, the key element is information, and that is why the state of emergency cannot be a disguised censorship. the internet, newspapers, news organizations must be able to make the international community aware of the dynamics that are being experienced in thailand, so that with maximum awareness the international community can be close to this moment of restoration of democracy.
the mandate for the trilogue is an important act, especially this year, because with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and the single reading, maximum clarity and maximum cooperation between the budgetary institutions are needed from the outset. it is a balance sheet that goes on, takes shape and form in a difficult time. the margins available for commitment appropriations are 1.2 billion, so they are very small, but what is even more delicate is that 70% of them are covered by the second heading, the heading which contains agricultural policy, the conservation and management of natural resources and therefore the fight against climate change. but it is also difficult because there are many open procedures on which the extent of the resources that will actually be available depends to a large extent. i am thinking of the revision of the budget, the financial regulation and the interinstitutional agreement, the activation of the external action service, but above all the crisis and the instability of the financial markets. the crisis which has put the euro at risk has shown that any european response to it is to be found in the budget and its resources as a fundamental instrument, thus highlighting its full importance but also its full limits. in this context, the european parliament must draw its own red line, which of its priorities should be most evident in its main accounting document. we have chosen as a group to strike a delicate balance between the need to preserve the purpose of this mandate and the need not to dilute its political significance. we have therefore made it a priority not to repeat the mistakes of the past and thus to ensure that adequate resources are available for the achievement of the objectives of the 2020 strategy in the first place, but also to maintain adequate resources for the actions under heading 2, and above all those that are substantiated in the fight against unemployment. but it is also important to keep the fight against climate change at the centre. so there are many challenges. there is also one that we have set as a central one at the beginning of the mandate: the commission's proposal is to make a great effort to achieve coordination and new consistency between our european budget and that of the individual member states, because the consistency and coordination of the economic policies of the union and its member states are fundamental values for the future of the union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i thank the rapporteur, mr cashman, for his work and for his reminder of the importance of the new york summit. europe has a great opportunity to present itself as a global partner for development. the data we have is always alarming: in 2009, one billion people suffered from chronic hunger, and that number has increased today with the economic crisis. to this we must add the damage caused by climate change, which only adds to the problems that were being tried to control. it must be acknowledged that the objectives presented in 2000 were certainly ambitious, but they could only be met with donor countries. it is regrettable that in the light of these commitments to the developing countries, some european countries are far from the commitments they have made. it is regrettable, for example, that my country - italy - is now at a dismal 0.16% of gdp. we must make it binding on all countries to achieve 0.70% of gdp by 2015, as set by the european commission. all countries must feel the moral duty and the political obligation to uphold this commitment. the excellent work of the rapporteur, mr cashman, allows the european parliament to play a leading role in defending the dignity of persons.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult to accept the appeal of the rapporteur, mr cashman, who has called on all the groups to support this report outside the political groups, when some element of clear ideological character has been inserted into this report. for example, paragraph 42 of the report, which deals with the commitment to safe abortion and family planning, is surreptitiously reverted to inserting principles which we cannot share. we do not ask the states, as europe does, to finance life, to finance maternity and responsible parenting, to support the continuation of pregnancies, but we invite the states to finance the instrument of termination of pregnancy as a contraceptive or as a tool for planning births and demography. we can never agree on that. a state eugenics, which funds death and does not fund life, which supports abortion and does not support those who choose to terminate it because of socioeconomic disadvantage, is an issue on which we cannot agree at all.
member of the commission. − madam president, it was a fascinating debate. i would just take a couple of points that i think require some clarification. the millennium development goals should and can be achieved, and i say this with full responsibility. it is not only my view; it is also the united nations’ view. it is the view of the developed and the developing world and we need to make an effort. it is also important that this house calls very strongly for commitment of 0.7% of gni. i know that it is part of sovereignty that every country decides on its budget, but, if parliament will not call for it, who else will do it with such a strong voice? it is true that we need to be accountable, but parliament has a lot of power in this issue. you should not underestimate your strength on this issue, and i believe that it is very important that it should be done. i believe that it is important also to strengthen our relations with sub-saharan africa. i know that there have been a lot of disappointments, but being new in this job and really looking for all the complex of issues with the colonial past, cold war years, and development, i believe sub-saharan africa deserves particular care and particular attention. the trade issue is important to address and it should be fair trade, but we know that until now these unilateral trade preferences have not helped the countries evolve. they have not been substantial in regional trade either, and our approach now is really to create fair trade conditions, investment for trade and in particular looking for regional trade. i believe that is the right approach and we need to strengthen it. i will work together with my trade commissioner. he was, for a short while, also development commissioner and he takes these things very close to his heart. tax evasion and illicit flows are an important issue but i believe that part of the responsibility lies with the g20 and us to make a very strong global system so that tax evasion and illicit flows are impossible. we also pay particular attention in our projects to support a property register, because, definitely, growth is not possible without a strong property register and legal systems that support it. on rural and food security issues, it is true that it is a focus of our policy, but part of the money for food security comes through our budget support and that way statistics do not always correctly reflect them. we need to think how to better reflect them, but a clear commitment is demonstrated by our food facility and the money put towards its construction. i would finish with a call which michael cashman made: that this report really deserves cross-party support. i know that some issues are divisive but they should not divide parliament in strong support for this report. we need this support because society needs it and if parliament will give overwhelming support for the report, it will be easier for the communities that care for development cooperation policy really to push forward this agenda and be more successful.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 15 june 2010. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the recommendation for the second reading by the committee on transport and tourism on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european rail network for competitive freight transport (11069/5/2009 - c7-0043/2010 - 2008/0247 ((cod)) (rapporteur: marian-jean marinescu) (a7-0162/2010).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 15 june 2010. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the development of an efficient and sustainable european transport system requires a revival of rail freight transport, through coordinated action between member states and cooperation between rail infrastructure managers to develop intermodality, market opening and the management of freight and passenger traffic. the proposal for a regulation aims to improve the rail freight service by means of a methodology for identifying european corridors to ensure a quality freight service. the freight corridor no 5 was already outlined at ministerial level in 2006 on the basis of the baltic-adriatic corridor, the pan-european corridor vi and the priority project 23. it is therefore right to pursue the commitments made and the objectives set, as was repeatedly stressed at the ten-t conference in zaragoza.
i would like to inform you that the epp group has sent me the nomination of mr lászló tőkés for the vacant post of vice-president of the european parliament. the election will take place tomorrow, tuesday, june 15, 2010, at noon.
the agenda includes the report by sarah ludford, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the right to interpretation and translation in criminal proceedings (00001/2010 - c7-0005/2010 - 2010/0801 (cod)) (a7-0198/2010).
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, may i thank all the members of this house who have, in a very credible and strong way, supported the area of justice which we have started to build. the european treaty of lisbon gives us the possibility now – by giving us the tools – to move forward step by step, putting in place the rights of the citizens, be it the rights of the convicted, or the rights of the victims. everything is in the pipeline and will come quickly. the question related to more proposals forming part of the road map: yes, after the right of interpretation, which i am sure the house will endorse tomorrow, there will be the right of information, the letter of rights which i will put on the table of this house before summer. that will then be followed by the right to legal advice and the right to communicate with people who are dear to the heart. so you see we are going in a direction which aims to achieve the following: the same high level of rights for all eu citizens wherever they are, whatever their problem. it does not matter whether they are travelling for study, for business or for leisure: they should feel at home, and have the same rights as they have at home, wherever they find themselves in europe. one very important question which has been underlined by several members is the question of language. article 2(1) and article 3(1) state very clearly that the accused person who does not understand or speak the language of the criminal proceedings concerned has to be provided with interpretation and a translation of the documents. now this implicitly means that the language into which the proceedings are translated is the language that this person understands. so in fact it does not concern only european union languages or minority languages. it concerns the language of the person who is in front of a tribunal. i believe that this is only fair because we have to have fair proceedings in order to build the trust of the citizens in our justice system and also, and this is of the utmost importance, in order to ensure the mutual trust of the judges and the prosecutors in neighbouring countries’ systems, which cannot be achieved unless we also have a comparable level of rights. there was one question by mr busuttil and other members about procedures – not about procedural rights, but about internal procedures – due to the coexistence of a member state initiative and of a commission proposal. well i must say that in this case this really did not hamper in any way the swift adoption of a very high-quality and balanced legislative instrument. why did it happen? we are now in a very peculiar period. we are coming out of the third pillar and find ourselves in a normal codecision situation. i suppose that after some months we will have learned how best to utilise the tools which are at our disposal in order to reach the best solutions very swiftly. and when i say reaching the best solutions, i mean in the way we used to prepare such solutions: by having an impact assessment, by also having a call for people to come in and say what they think about our proposals. these are the normal proceedings which we are used to and which will guarantee in the end, via the codecision procedure and after having a public consultation and an impact assessment, that we achieve sound policy. sound policy which then can be implemented at national level without creating more distortions than rights, as unfortunately has happened in the past. but we are here with a new treaty, we are here with a charter of fundamental rights, we are going to become a party to the european convention on human rights. i am very confident that, if we should meet together some years from now, we will say, yes, together we have constructed that area of justice and fundamental rights which our continent must become.
in writing. the proposal for a draft framework decision sets out fundamental obligations on the basis of the european convention on human rights and the case law of the european court of justice. the right to interpretation and translation is essential for those who are facing charges in criminal proceedings and do not know the language of the proceedings. furthermore, under article 6 of the treaty, the union respects fundamental rights as guaranteed by the european convention for the protection of human rights, which enshrines the right to a fair trial. the text under discussion today is satisfactory from a compromise point of view and fully acceptable. in the compromise text, the presidency has safeguarded the essential points raised by the member states as regards the costs of implementing the directive and the transposition period. in view of this, i can only welcome the results achieved in the council and the european parliament: interpretation shall be provided in the suspect's mother tongue or in a language known to the suspect, while translation shall be limited to essential documents and the possibility of oral summaries of key documents shall be considered.
in writing. the european union has set itself the objective of creating a single area of justice, with common rules, a high level of cooperation and at the same time procedural guarantees for the parties. the issue is even more delicate in criminal proceedings, where, given the sensitivity of the matter and often the seriousness of both the fact and the penalty, a high degree of legal certainty and respect for rights is necessary. with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the european union must not only respect the echr, but also rely on it, in accordance with the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, to establish eu-wide rules providing protection for suspects and accused persons. in particular, as regards the right to interpretation and translation, it is essential to ensure that all defendants have the opportunity to have full knowledge of all the documents in the case and to be able to understand and express themselves in their own language with the guarantee of translation and interpretation. it is an essential requirement of the single market that every citizen should have the same rights and enjoy the same rights and guarantees as those enjoyed in his country of origin.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, just a moment. (the speaker appears for a few seconds gagged to indicate the impossibility of speaking.) this is what would happen if a law which was introduced and passed last week in the italian senate, the so-called ddl interception, were to be passed in the chamber. that decree virtually bans journalists, bloggers, anyone from publishing wiretaps. this is clearly unconstitutional and also against the charter of rights of the european union which, in article 11, provides that every person has the right to freedom of expression and also to receive and impart information. i would just like to give an example to call the attention of the european institutions, because it is really an incredible form of censorship. i would like to give a very clear, very real example. my father was a journalist killed by the mafia, and in the last seven years, thanks to intercepts, the true matrix of that mafia murder has emerged, and thanks to the intercepts we have found out that he died because a fugitive was hiding in our areas. i therefore call on the european institutions to pay attention.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, equality between men and women is certainly not achieved by bringing forward the planned increase in the length of time for women to be in paid employment to 65 years in 2012, which was previously planned in a gradual manner and which would have brought italy to the same level as men and women only in 2018. the government, however, quickly adapted and this does not exclude a remark against a hasty and poorly motivated decision. each welfare system has its own specific features and flexibility, and the savings that can be secured must provide active compensatory measures to support women. but as regards what mrs alfano pocanzi said about the law on interception in italy, there is still no rule. there is a presumption of norm which constitutes a point of balance between the right of chronicling, and as such inviolable, and the right to privacy. all these are fundamental elements which will be taken into account by the italian parliament.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the name of supposedly greater safety, this directive is being extended to autonomous road hauliers. the arguments used are, however, misleading and penalizing. they are misleading because safety is already guaranteed by the 2006 regulation and they are punitive because the competitiveness of thousands of small, autonomous enterprises, already badly affected by the economic crisis, is at risk. ladies and gentlemen, let us not pretend to be unaware that behind the legal and technical clash over the directive there is in fact yet another show of force between the european statesmen, ready to burden businesses with a new and dangerous barrier, and the supporters of a europe with a human face, close to the real needs of our citizens. by intervening to enact legislation on the organisation of working time for selfemployed people, parliament would be setting a dangerous precedent by authorising a coup d'état against entrepreneurship and free enterprise in europe. it's time to move from words to deeds. we must stop exploiting small and mediumsized enterprises to our own advantage. it is too easy to sing the praises of the enterprise of the masses when it comes to pointing out effective anti-crisis strategies and then to sacrifice them when it comes to reaffirming the strength of the euro-bureaucracy. i oppose the struggle of principle based on utopia to that of concreteness. europe does not invade the sphere of private autonomy and respects the demands of our territories.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission proposal and the line taken by the rapporteur leave the member states free to choose whether or not to include selfemployed persons in the scope of the directive. this optional scheme is inadmissible and contrary to the union competition rules. by leaving the member states free to choose, road hauliers in some countries, which have already transposed the previous directive 2002/15/ec, would be exposed to direct competition from their community counterparts not subject to the same rules. selfemployed workers could go to a country with different legislation, subject to less controls, and this would cause a serious problem of dumping and therefore a serious distortion of competition. in fact, firms could make greater use of selfemployed workers who can offer their services more flexibly and at reduced costs. it goes without saying that low costs often lead to a reduction in quality and, above all, in safety, which in transport means a serious increase in road traffic risks. in view of this, i consider the proposal unacceptable and contrary to one of its legal bases, article 153 of the treaty, because it does not improve the working environment and does not protect the safety and health of workers.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are called upon to vote on a proposal for a report on consumer information, but have we really asked ourselves what consumers want? are these considerations made behind closed doors or do they reflect the interests of consumers? the latest survey commissioned by the commission may not be representative of the attention that consumers have developed in recent years to the information on the food products they choose. not only the origin, but also the composition and other characteristics become fundamental to the choice. are we aware that the choices we make today will affect our purchases tomorrow? shouldn't consumers be the ones to determine the market? why not try to understand, through a new survey or by maintaining a constant and direct dialogue with consumers, what they really want? we must represent consumers in the best possible way. we are here for this and from the meetings we have had i have found their desire for greater involvement. consumers do not expect to find the purchase procedure complicated by putting unnecessary information on the label, but they certainly do not expect to find too simplistic and misleading choices such as traffic lights, which risk giving misleading and non-basic information for a conscious choice without meeting their needs. our approach must not be paternalistic but open to dialogue.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as we know, the european parliament is called upon to give its final word on food information to consumers. it must be said at once that this was a legally laborious, long and controversial process which could not be shortened. the aim is to harmonize community food law by means of legislation which makes information transparent for consumers and avoids making them make confusing or potentially harmful choices. the report by mr sommer, whose efforts to summarize the many needs must be acknowledged, is therefore intended to remedy the controversies and the different information systems in force in the countries of the union. it is no accident that national regulations still differ in the names of the nature of the foodstuffs put on sale, creating a system which differs from country to country and also encouraging unfair competition to the detriment of potential consumers. the aim was to give a new face to existing legislation, involving the food industry on the one hand and consumers on the other, on the basis of the european commission's proposal. the report also calls on the european food industry to clarify mandatory labelling and the indication and presentation of nutritional values. in a globalised market, the european union could not refrain from adapting and innovating its food legislation to better protect food trade and to safeguard it against increasingly invasive and unbridled international competition. it is not new that we hear more and more about the dangers of food products which are surreptitiously labelled and labelled in ways that often do not meet the food requirements and which are nevertheless marketed as beneficial to human health.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i thank the rapporteur. efficient food labelling is indeed very important. the consumer must know what he is eating and he must know it in the short time available to him in the supermarket to make a purchase. but the information must be in a way that is not just understood by a trained food engineer. the aim of this information is to reach a completely different group of people, not those who already have a great deal of knowledge about the health of food. i think one area is particularly important, namely the area of handicrafts and, in particular, the products processed and marketed directly by the farmer. these products are often not standardized in content - think of marmalades or juices, for example - and it is simply not possible to give an exact sugar content or, for example, an exact fuel content. we've been working a lot in the last few years to create shortcuts from farmer to consumer, and things like farm life, farmers' markets and so on are very important now for the image of farmers and agriculture as a whole. in the context of rural development, we have also spent european money to promote such things. in addition, there is a direct link between farmers and buyers in these sales, and this is often more important than the information on the labels. i therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support the amendments which seek to find a sensible solution for this group of sales.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if it is a priority for this parliament to ensure that consumers have safe food, that it is guaranteed to come from a provenance and that it is traceable, then it is also a priority to facilitate easy access to food information through appropriate labelling systems. in this respect, the adoption of clear and comprehensible food labels can influence consumer choices by directing them towards the purchase of healthier products of a certain origin. in this context, i would ask the house to consider carefully an amendment tabled in this house with the signatures of 40 members - amendment no 351 - so that consumers can be given the indication of the origin of the raw material not only for certain raw agricultural products that arrive at our canteens, but also for processed products which are mono-ingredients, that is to say, those which contain an excipient in addition to the agricultural product.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must not be afraid to write the place of origin of the products we and our families, like all other citizens, consume. the consumer, who must be guaranteed full freedom of choice, has the right to know what he is buying, what is in it and where those products come from. tools are needed to enable consumers to make a rational assessment of their food and consumption choices. in this sense, conscious spending is the first step toward a healthy, balanced diet that protects one's health. we are aware that many companies, for reasons of economy or convenience, would prefer to omit the indication of much information, but this cannot be seen as favourable by the legislator who must look solely at the interests of the consumer citizen. effective labelling should not provide discriminatory judgments between good and bad food, but should provide the consumer with assessment tools that enable him to make informed and informed choices. the lega nord has always fought to defend and protect quality products, possibly at mile zero, because it believes that good and healthy nutrition is the source of better health and quality of life.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank you for this lively and interesting debate which generated such strong views on many areas of the proposal. these views will of course be carefully considered by the commission. there are certain issues that we believe are fundamental for consumers – for example, availability of information on allergens on all food; front-of-pack nutrition labelling with endorsement of additional labelling by member states; the inclusion of measurable criteria for legibility; and balanced information concerning consumer health. i would like to emphasise once again my strong support for the principle of nutrient profiles, and would stress that we will not be stopping the production of any food and that work on this will proceed in an open-minded manner. the commission cannot accept deletion of this provision from the claims regulation. i would like, if i may, to react to some of the issues that were raised here today. on the efsa financing, i can say that we are working at the moment on a non-legislative report which should be ready after the summer and which will state what our direction will be in this regard. on innovation, i believe that our proposals are not against innovation. i am in favour of innovation – as is the commission – but it must be responsible innovation. we want innovation that works for the consumers and innovation that works for consumers’ health. on the issue of the claims made and the approvals mentioned by mr davies, i must state that, under article 13, we did have about 44 000 claims by member states. when we asked member states to revise these claims, they were reduced to 4 000. this indicates to me the lax and superficial way in which claims are made and why it is important that we control these claims that, as i have said, are made as a marketing tool to sell products. in fact, this process has been slightly delayed because of the volumes, but we are working on batches. the first batch has been completed by efsa and is being reviewed by the commission for publication, and the second batch is also well advanced at efsa. this is an ongoing process. on the other hand, 50 claims have already been judged under article 14, and the commission has pronounced itself in favour or against. work on this is therefore progressing – we have been delayed but the work is going on. i would like to make another comment on the impact assessments. the commission has supported this proposal with wide consultation of stakeholders and a terrain impact assessment weighing the cost and benefits of the various policy options. the impact of several amendments tabled by honourable members today and in the past to add extra labelling requirements has not been subject to any assessment. for the sake of better regulation, i believe that impact assessment should underpin the decision-making process at all times. i would like to end by again thanking mrs renate sommer and all honourable members for their contributions. a full listing of the commission’s position on each of the amendments is as usual being made available to parliament.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 16 june 2010. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate we are having today is of particular importance. community law contains a number of regulations and directives on ingredients and labelling of foodstuffs. however, there is currently no coordinated labelling obligation between member states. it is clear that the large number of general community rules on food information makes it difficult for european consumers to find their way around. the additional regulations of individual member states, in an attempt to fill the gaps, have instead created barriers to trade in the internal market of the european union. for these reasons, i believe that only a uniform system of food labelling at european level can reasonably eliminate these drawbacks. the mandatory labelling must be presented in an intelligible form, so as to enable consumers to make informed purchases. the consumer continues to be a key player in our choices to protect him, both in terms of health and the quality of the goods we buy. i would stress the importance of protecting european businesses against all forms of counterfeiting and unfair competition, while at the same time promoting the reduction of administrative burdens. the name of the manufacturing company on the packaging of foodstuffs is also essential information for promoting the competitiveness of the european food industry.
in writing. today we are voting on a regulation to protect consumers by guaranteeing them the right to be informed about the food they find on the market, so that they can make informed purchases. we are not here to decide what european citizens should eat. we cannot therefore accept approaches such as the traffic light label or nutritional profiles indicating the free or stop-over period for food on the basis of presumed health principles which, moreover, do not take account of food and wine traditions and local characteristics. it is also the belief of the most authoritative nutritionists that there are no good foods and bad foods, but only good or bad diets, depending on how the individual foods are combined in the overall diet. both traffic lights and nutrition profiles ignore that the human body also needs the much-maligned fats, sugars and salt to function. i would also like to draw attention to the need to specify the origin of foodstuffs. we know that in some countries health-hazardous ingredients may be used or hygiene deficiencies tolerated in the production chain. we must also protect the companies whose strength lies in the quality and health of their products. we can make a major contribution to this by voting for it.
the agenda includes the debate on the oral question to the commission on the quality of statistical data in the union and the strengthening of the commission's (eurostat) supervisory powers, by othmar karas and sharon bowles, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (o-0080/2010 b7-0314/2010).
member of the commission. − mr president, let me thank you for a very substantive debate and your support for this proposal to reinforce eurostat’s powers. i must say that i agree with mrs jaakonsaari that we have seen a sea change – a real cultural change – as regards the attitudes concerning economic policy coordination in europe in recent months. the adoption of this proposal is one of the cornerstones of our efforts to reinforce our economic and monetary union. there were several points made concerning greece and bulgaria, and i would like to clarify and respond to some of the issues that were discussed today. on greece, i will not go into the whole long history of this saga. i agree with those who say that it is not fair to continue this ‘greece bashing’, because greece is now on track and its programme is being implemented effectively. greece deserves credit and support, not ‘bashing’. as regards the statistical reforms, we are working together with the greek authorities. we have made numerous visits in the course of this winter and spring and have recently agreed on an action plan which aims at enhancing the capacity of the greek statistical system and improving greece’s public finance statistics. on bulgaria, our concerns relate mostly to two aspects of the budgetary forecast. i trust that at least the bulgarian members of the european parliament are listening to my clarifications concerning bulgaria’s excessive deficit procedure and statistical problems. first, the commission was only belatedly informed by bulgaria about the sizeable revisions in the budgetary outlook, in violation of treaty obligations. secondly, we lack information on why bulgaria revised its planned budget for 2010 from a balanced budget to a deficit of 3.8% within just a few weeks, even though the macro-economic scenario remained unchanged or even improved. consequently the commission is currently not in a position to undertake an assessment of the bulgarian budgetary plans for this year. the planned mission by eurostat to bulgaria foreseen for the second half of this year will not address the differences and questions concerning the 2010 outlook. this is not a statistical issue. instead, eurostat will focus on potential risks to past data on the excessive deficit procedure for the year 2009 relating to previously undeclared government contractual commitments. i am very grateful for this attention to these important issues, which may have also some implications concerning bulgaria’s standing in the markets. according to the information obtained from the bulgarian authorities, the conclusion of their internal budget audits will only be completed by midsummer. the outcome of such audits will be used by eurostat in the context of the planned edp visit to bulgaria. depending on the speed of the adoption of the revised regulation, which grants stronger powers to eurostat, eurostat may draw on these powers, as necessary, in its work. ladies and gentlemen, once again, thank you for your attention and especially for your broad and strong support for our proposal, which is the very first legislative proposal of the second barroso commission. indeed, its adoption is essential for the effective functioning of economic and monetary union.
i would also like to thank you, commissioner, for your generosity to us, who have not listened to you carefully enough. i regret that when we are speaking in the chamber there are demonstrations, such as applause, which have nothing to do with the subject and the speech that is being made during our work. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 16 june 2010. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the current economic crisis one of the major problems facing the advanced economies is unemployment, a threat which has reached alarming levels of 10% in the eurozone. the european institutions, and the european commission in particular in its 2011 draft budget, have put in place a number of measures to support economic recovery, including the strengthening of the european globalisation adjustment fund, on which i am rapporteur and for which we are about to vote on four major calls for mobilisation. i therefore believe that the procedures for mobilising this fund should be simplified in order to provide rapid answers to the workers in the firms affected by the economic crisis and the process of relocation. i therefore urge my colleagues to promote this fund in the individual member states.
mr president, i have noticed that between the vote on the vice-president and the last vote, 150 members have disappeared. i don't know if it's a colitis attack or a malfunction in the air conditioning. perhaps it would be worth investigating.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have supported mr marinescu's report and i take this opportunity to thank him because i believe that advanced and efficient freight transport is a fundamental requirement not only for competitiveness but for the very survival of european enterprises. i also think that the rapporteur's intention to re-introduce certain passages of the text approved by parliament itself at first reading is broadly acceptable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at the 2000 millennium summit, the richest countries, including the countries of the european union, renewed their commitment to achieving a number of specific objectives by 2015: reducing hunger and poverty, improving education and health and protecting the environment in developing countries. almost ten years later, we believe that europe, as the world's leading actor in development aid, must now take the lead more than ever. there is no doubt that the increase in development aid in recent years has helped to alleviate the suffering of millions of people. they are working, it is true, but there is still a lot to be done, also considering that the current international crisis will force many member states to reduce their budget to support these countries. mr president, i voted in favour of this report because i believe that at this point it has become necessary to explore innovative financing mechanisms. the member states of the european union must begin to take strategic political partnerships with these countries seriously. this means demonstrating a renewed political will on the part of all partners to achieve the priority objectives, which remain: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. that, mr president, remains our primary challenge.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the cashman report because i believe that it is the responsibility of this parliament and the european institutions to respect and uphold commitments to people living in the least developed countries, particularly those in africa. we cannot go to 2015 and realize that the eight goals we set ourselves have not been achieved, because behind the achievement of the millennium development goals, behind those percentages - let's not forget it - there are billions of people who are suffering and who do not have the opportunity to live in a dignified way. the european union must be an example and a guide in development aid. the cancellation of public debts, together with a greater commitment to ensuring that aid is successful, is one of the key points of this solidarity project, a project whose implementation - we must be aware of this - cannot be postponed unless it comes at the cost of additional human lives.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the reports on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund because i believe it is crucial to underline the importance of the egf. this instrument was established to provide active labour market support measures exclusively to help workers made redundant as a result of structural changes in the main global trade flows and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market. this is a very useful instrument, which has seen 55 applications from 17 member states since 2007 to support 52,334 redundant workers, for which a total of eur 271.9 million has been allocated. the analysis of the data in our possession therefore shows that the european globalisation adjustment fund was mobilised for an amount of eur 5 195 per individual worker made redundant, an amount actually used to implement personalised packages of services specifically aimed at reintegrating the workers concerned into the labour market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, in the strong view of the importance of equipping the globalisation adjustment fund with more dynamic procedures. the decision of the european parliament and of the council of 20 may 2010 calls for the mobilisation of eur 1 110 000 to finance control and monitoring activities, but above all information and technical and administrative support for the use of resources by the states and social partners. clear information is essential to reduce the time taken in procedures, and it is also essential to equip the union with instruments that are ever closer to the citizen in terms of transparency and awareness. as from 1 may 2009, this fund can also be used to support redundancies caused by the effects of the economic crisis and the financial markets, which makes it even more timely and necessary.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to provide early assistance to workers who are victims of structural changes in world trade patterns. on 24 april 2010, the commission adopted a new proposal to mobilise the egf, which concerns the issue of eur 1,110,000 from the fund, an amount that would cover the primary activities of the egf, namely the monitoring and implementation of studies, the creation of a database, the exchange of information and experience between member states and european experts of the egf, the organisation of seminars, as well as the further development of the egf website and its publications in all european languages. i would like to thank the commissioner for his report, which is a very good one, and i would like to thank him for his work in this area. i think that the creation of a database is very useful, because it acts as a glue between the member states and therefore encourages them to cooperate with each other and to take inspiration from those countries which have more experience in this field. finally, i am encouraged that a team of experts is guiding the member states in this process and i look forward to further developments for a future egf project.
in writing. − according to a survey published by the region of sicily at the end of 2009, 75% of citizens consider the positive impact of european funds to be of little or no relevance. if we consider that, according to the court of auditors, 51% of the resources allocated to sicily for the 2000-2006 programming period have not been spent and that a good percentage of the funds used are tainted by irregularities, it is easy to understand the almost total lack of confidence on the part of the citizens. i therefore fully support the report by my colleague. only the most complete transparency, allowing the citizen to know the actual use of public resources, can restore confidence in the institutions. everyone must be able to know who receives the funds and, above all, what they are used for, and to follow all the stages from programming to implementation. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very good one. i remind you that transparency is not just about making documents public, that is just the first step. the information must be accessible and easily understandable, otherwise it is a mere technical exercise that is not subject to any democratic control.
in writing. mr president, i share the view of mr winkler, to whom i have given my vote in favour, on the revision of the community's policy in favour of innovation. in particular, i think it is commendable that we should have a broad strategy, covering not only technological innovation but also administrative, organizational and social innovation. in this respect, i believe that the involvement of the business community and small and mediumsized enterprises in the definition of measures to promote innovation is crucial, as is the attention to be paid to economic policy objectives at regional level.
in writing. - at a time like the present, when the economic and financial crisis appears as a transversal phenomenon that crosses all sectors without distinction, the agricultural sector is no exception and calls for financial support and transparency. the report by michail tremopoulos follows up the commission's communication on the european transparency initiative by introducing proposals to promote the disclosure of data on beneficiaries of funding and transparency in joint management and partnership. i believe that more information, and above all simpler information, can bring the complex world of community cohesion policy closer to the world of business, and that is why i shall vote in favour of this text.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the transparency of regional policy and its financing are particularly sensitive issues and of considerable interest to the region i represent. as established by the 2007-2013 cohesion policy, the veneto region and the other regions of northern and central italy fall under objective 2 'regional competitiveness and employment', to which 16% of the available resources are allocated. the majority of the funds (83%) are allocated to the less developed regions, including the mezzogiorno. i agree with the rapporteur that the commission's european transparency initiative (eiti) should be accompanied by benchmarks which are the same for everyone, so as to ensure a uniform and effective level of transparency. by defining the type of documentation to be provided, ensuring access to such documentation, especially in the case of 'large projects', and by creating a common model to be followed, waste and non-transparent management can be avoided. the provision of clearer and more detailed common rules, which do not, however, have a negative impact on administrative efficiency, will reward the virtuous regions and penalize those which do not define their demands and projects with sufficient precision.
in writing. − the traceability of beneficiaries, amounts and projects in the framework of the instruments regulating the use of the erdf, the esf and the cohesion fund is essential to ensure the transparency of expenditure. a transparent system enhances investment and reduces costs. this makes it desirable to tighten the provisions on penalties in the event of breaches of reporting and publicity obligations, to promote a more modern and functional network system between the managing authorities, to define a common basis for harmonising the behaviour of individual states and to link publicity, control and auditing. this action should be included in the package of anti-crisis measures. the same was stated by parliament in its vote on the 'protection of the community's financial interests - fight against fraud - annual report', where it was considered that the obligation to have transparent procedures prevents misconduct.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by rail. the report provides for the creation of nine freight corridors between the member states of the european union and the establishment of a 'single gateway' per corridor, used to provide all public and private railway companies with the necessary information on capacity allocation on the corridor itself, and emphasises interoperability in freight transport, providing links with sea ports and inland waterways. this regulation is certainly a major step forward in the european coordination of rail traffic, particularly freight, and it contributes to the completion of the liberalisation of the rail market, which is a top priority in this sector. i regret that some members have tried to sabotage the priority project of the stockholm-naples corridor by proposing in an amendment to exclude the brenner from the route. it was an irresponsible attitude which, thanks to the attention of the italian members of parliament, was rejected. for these reasons, i strongly supported the recommendation for second reading.
in writing. - the european parliament adopted a decision adapting parliament's rules of procedure to the treaty of lisbon. the amendments to parliament's rules of procedure adopted by meps include the addition of 18 new members from 12 member states, the strengthening of legislative powers and a new budgetary procedure which puts parliament on an equal footing with the council. the amendments to the rules of procedure also take account of the budgetary rules, since parliament will decide on this in cooperation with the council. in particular, the amendments concern the three-year financial framework which will become a legislative act requiring parliament's approval; the documents available to the member; the examination of the draft budget; the reconciliation of budgets and the final adoption of the budget. i also think that the most important changes are those concerning respect for the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, the right of members of parliament to propose amendments to the treaties, the procedure for appointing the president of the commission and, above all, the abolition of specific provisions concerning the appointment of the high representative for the common foreign and security policy. i hope that these changes will soon be made to the treaty text, given the fundamental innovation they represent for the whole union.
in writing. - mr president, as the recent economic and financial crisis has amply demonstrated, there is a need to put in place a strategy for more regulated and transparent derivatives markets that prevents excessive speculation. in particular, i agree with the rapporteur's proposal that centralised control should be entrusted to esma, the european securities and markets authority, and the demand that the costs of the future market infrastructure should be borne by market participants and not by taxpayers. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - the langen report proposes a series of measures which should make the derivatives market more transparent. given the origins of the 2008 financial crisis and the fragility that markets still suffer from such complex products, it is certainly desirable to try to introduce more stability and transparency. i therefore vote in favour of the langen report. however, we should insist on another point, which is a point of principle, a basic point in the reasoning of finance, of economic and market crises. the 2008 crisis, which cascadingly caused the negative effects that still weigh on our societies today, before derivatives and intricate financial engineering, is caused by the fact that for too long, we mistakenly thought we could do without the real economy. so, while we welcome measures to promote transparency in financial markets and in the products offered by banks and stock markets, let us all remember that there is an urgent need for a general rethinking of the economic system on which world markets are based. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of education and training.
in writing. - i would first like to congratulate my friend and colleague mrs langen on the draft report which she has put to the vote in this house today. in the light of the financial and economic crisis, we have seen the dangers of certain financial instruments used by the markets in a shameless way without rules or limits. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in order to avoid such unpleasant situations, i believe that proper regulation of derivatives is appropriate, indeed necessary, so that we can have a more stable and secure market which allows traders and consumers to make informed choices. the european union must be the initiator of a radical change in financial policy compared with the past and send out strong signals to prevent instruments such as otcs from undermining the entire financial market in the future. finally, i share the guidelines set out by mr langen in the text voted on today, partly because financial derivatives are not the preserve of professionals in the sector alone, but are widely used instruments. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
in writing. − the evolution of information and communication technology (ict) has brought about a real revolution in the field of knowledge over the last two decades, mainly thanks to the widespread use of the internet and the world wide web. after networking knowledge and eliminating any distance in the exchange of information, the new frontier of this technology is the possibility of combining a new radio frequency identification system and products, so that they can instantly release information to consumers. i am in favour of deepening the ethical and social implications of this new information resource, which could in future represent a new employment sector, also by implementing pilot projects, and i therefore support the report by mrs maria badia i cutchet.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the development of the application of the internet of things represents a great opportunity for growth and competitiveness on the one hand, and on the other hand it brings about a great social change, significantly affecting the behaviour of citizens. i therefore welcome the commission's intention to publish a communication on privacy and trust in the information society in 2010, as i believe it is essential to monitor the protection of personal data on an ongoing basis. the debate on the technical and legal aspects of the right to silence of the chip is equally important. furthermore, for the profound changes that the internet of things will bring, it is essential to allow for a uniform development of technologies at territorial level, to avoid creating even larger gaps than those that exist, by adequately involving public authorities in this process and paying attention to the most peripheral areas. finally, i think it is important to increase european funding for the internet of things in the context of research projects under the seventh framework programme and pilot projects under the competitiveness and innovation framework programme, also focusing on infrastructure development, broadband deployment and further reducing data roaming costs.
in writing. - i can only vote in favour of the report by mr sosa wagner on the need to ensure ethical and secure governance of the internet. the tool which has eliminated the distances and times of communication, together with its enormous potential for benefit, is at the same time a daily source of risks, both for the protection of personal data and for minors. it is essential to ensure the free flow of information and communication, but with the certainty that the most vulnerable and sensitive data continue to receive adequate protection. only in this way can the internet continue to be a force for positive social change that respects the dignity of the individual.
in writing. the internet has now become an essential tool in the development of the internal market, which is the pillar of growth and development in the european union. moreover, the percentage of the european population with access to the information world is now over 60%. it therefore seems necessary for the union to play a leading role in the debate on internet governance, thus ensuring that a service that has become central to social and commercial interaction takes due account of the union's own values such as respect for consumers and minors. i therefore support the content and proposals of mr sosa wagner's report.
in writing. mr president, i share the view of mr winkler, to whom i have given my vote in favour, on the revision of the community's policy in favour of innovation. in particular, i think it is commendable that we should have a broad strategy, covering not only technological innovation but also administrative, organizational and social innovation. in this respect, i believe that the involvement of the business community and small and mediumsized enterprises in the definition of measures to promote innovation is crucial, as is the attention to be paid to economic policy objectives at regional level.
in writing. − innovations, whether in products or processes, whether radical or incremental, are today the driving force behind the competitiveness of modern business and economic systems that are committed to efficiency and sustainability. research, which is the basis of all innovative action and discovery, must therefore be supported, especially when it brings small and mediumsized enterprises and the world of new technologies closer together. i therefore support mr winkler's own-initiative report, which calls for a third party to complete the knowledge triangle, namely consumers. in a fluid context such as that represented by modern reality, we need reference points. it is therefore important that the growth and competitiveness of the economic and social system also remain "on a human scale".
in writing. - mr president, i voted in favour of this report. i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr winkler, on his excellent work. innovation and research, as well as education and training, are key building blocks for europe to compete positively in a more technologically competitive world. however, only 1% of the eu budget has been allocated to this sector so far, which is insufficient for the difficult challenges facing europe. it is time for the european union to invest more in research and innovation. i am convinced that the economic crisis can be overcome by more funds. i also believe that private investment in technological innovation should be encouraged and stimulated, because only by implementing research can we have a competitive market able to resist the growing trend towards relocation. finally, i agree with the need to provide for 'ad hoc instruments for the innovation capacity of enterprises' and a reduction in the bureaucratic burden for small and mediumsized enterprises, which promote decisive technological innovation.
in writing. − intelligent growth based on the knowledge and innovation economy requires concrete measures by supranational and national institutions. the strengthening of policies to support entrepreneurs in research must be accompanied by policies to encourage investment in new experimentation, including to prepare the skilled labour force to compete in the european labour market. while we ask countries to invest more in research, we must offer them a european regulatory framework, both general and specific, with common and coordinated development guidelines and adequate instruments for monitoring the effectiveness of funding. i agree with the proposal to regulate at european level the measures for apprenticeship, training and vocational training which some countries have already introduced in their school systems, as well as the measures for 'rights and duties' in the field of education. in order to achieve a 3% of gdp target for research funding, however, greater guarantees are needed, such as the academic productivity of teachers, avoiding the fragmentation of resources which has led in recent years to an improper and incongruous use of the already limited funds, with unsatisfactory results. finally, i share the need to have a single court system for patents, in order to standardize titles at the supranational level.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the current transformation of the european economy into a sustainable economy must lead to an increase in the competitiveness of our european enterprises. economic challenges must be transformed into new opportunities for national economies. it must become our objective to combat the increasing relocation of not only production facilities but also related research and development capacities to third countries. in addition to the political objective of competitiveness, the european union must also be able to deal with other major social challenges, such as climate change or demographic change. to date, less than 1% of the union budget is allocated directly to innovation measures. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. for this reason, i supported the position of our rapporteur who calls for an increase in the eu budget for innovation in the next programming of the new financial perspective for 2014-2020. it will be essential that incentives are targeted, identifying and enhancing synergies between the instruments supporting new technologies, and ensuring greater coordination between stakeholders. in addition to public support, private investment in innovation will need to be encouraged and promoted.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, every year almost 8 million children die before they are five years old. three and a half million die soon after birth from complications of pregnancy. as many as 4 million die in just five countries: india, nigeria, the democratic republic of congo, pakistan and china. many of these deaths could easily be prevented by simple gestures such as breast-feeding, the use of insecticide-treated mosquito nets, and vaccines to combat mainly pneumonia and malaria. many mothers are unaware of the importance of vaccines or, even when they are aware, are so poor that they cannot afford transportation to the doctor's office or the hospital. to give these children a future, it does not require huge investments, just bringing in these countries drugs that are very cheap and that for us are part of the normal prophylaxis, building drinking water wells, providing simple mosquito nets and getting what is needed where it is needed. so, above all, we need the political determination to act to save so many lives, to stop this silent slaughter of innocent children whose only fault is that they were born in a poor country.
in writing. - it is particularly painful that for years the european parliament has been unable to find a way out of a dramatic contradiction. in every document that laudably proposes measures against poverty, hunger and violence in the world, some manage to insert the proclamation, direct or indirect, of an alleged right to abortion as an instrument for the health and development of peoples. the response to the initiative of some is, on the one hand, the substantial indifference of the majority and, on the other, a certain shyness of the minority. yet, the contradiction and the drama are evident. the principle of equal dignity for all human beings and of special solidarity with the little ones is being abandoned at the very moment when the aim of combating discrimination and protecting health is being pursued. this is what happened today in the cashman report, where paragraph 42 contradicts the whole document and has forced the undersigned, along with a number of members, to express a negative final opinion on the whole report. the problem is that the harm that is being done is weighing heavier on the scales than the good that is being done elsewhere in the text.
president of the commission. − first of all i have stated several times in this parliament and on other occasions that we are against any kind of competing or parallel divisions of institutions in the european union. we have one union, the european union, with our institutions, with the 27 member states today, and of course we fully respect the treaties. we can, in the current framework, do more for economic coordination and clearance. we have, namely, article 121 of the treaty that is clear in stating that member states’ economic policies are a matter of common concern. what a member state does has implications in the other member states. article 121 is an implicit call for coordination by member states. we have article 126 that deals specifically with budgetary policies, and article 136 allows the commission to take initiatives to reinforce coordination, also within the euro area but within the general community framework. this is the important point to understand. we can make some proposals for the euro area, but always within the framework of the european union, and not having the euro area as something separate from the rest of the european union. i believe this is critically important for the success of a union that is really based on the principle of solidarity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a somewhat different opinion from that of president barroso on the work of the commission and the task force itself in recent months. i have a very strong feeling - and i would like you to refute it - that the idea of the process of rehabilitation and the necessary measures of discipline has taken shape with all the evidence, including media coverage - indispensable measures, i am convinced of this too - and that the idea of growth and development has been much weakened. the stability and growth pact is in danger of becoming nothing more than a stability pact, if not in its intentions, at least in its announced behaviour. i think it is essential to put in place, starting with the creation of eurobonds, measures which are capable of supporting growth. i would like to know from you whether the interest in growth is really an interest rooted both in the task force but even more so in the commission.
substitute writer. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, with this oral question the socialist and democratic group wishes to draw attention to the problems of the rating agencies, in order to get information from the european commission on the next steps, starting with the opportunity we support of creating a european rating agency, an opportunity which seems to us to be taking shape even after the statements about president barroso himself. we have to recognize the credit worthiness of the rating agencies that have succeeded in an almost impossible mission: the commission notes that the bank's capital needs were not fully covered by the restructuring plan, but were covered by the restructuring plan. in 2008, they ignored, and in some cases even encouraged, the risks of toxic products and now they thought they were contributing to market stability by downgrading the ratings of greece, portugal and spain at the very same time that the negotiations between the european union, the imf and the greek government were underway. i can't tell you. the evil heroes, president buzek. now, i don't want to blame everything that's happened in the world and in europe on the rating agencies. however, the fact that they are always present at the scene of the crime - and i am referring to the parmalat case, the enron case, the lehman brothers case - should lead us to a more appropriate and concrete reaction than the current standstill. commissioner, when will there be an inquiry into this matter, into this sector? we dealt with this with mr gauzès some time ago when we were making the regulations for the rating agencies. it is now necessary to carry out an inquiry into the sector in order to shed light on the scandalous and unacceptable situation of concentration and oligopoly which has arisen in this sector. let's get this under control before things get any worse and move from words to deeds. in addition to the need to create a european public agency, the role that independent courts of auditors can play in providing an assessment of sovereign debts, removing the competence of private agencies, is also reflected. sarkozy and merkel and concluded have officially asked the european commission to come up with proposals to strengthen competition in the credit rating market. it is a pity that it is the governments themselves who are delaying the adoption of the financial supervision package at the european council, where sarkozy and merkel are sitting, and thus preventing the establishment of esma, the european authority which will be responsible for supervision. so, dear nicolas and dear and kind angela, before you send the letter to barroso, send it to yourselves.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced that the transparency and accountability of the rating agencies must be improved, but i do not share the view of those who would like to restrict their scope and functions. the failures of the rating agencies to anticipate risks and warn the market are only the echoes of much more blatant failures of existing public financial institutions and authorities and of the entire banking system. i believe in the free market and i think that greater openness and competition are desirable also in the field of credit ratings, but the creation of a european public rating agency would be an oxymoron, an unfortunate risk of the government extending its hand over the market. finally, it would be reductive to stop the analysis at the responsibility of the rating agencies for the current financial crisis, which is primarily economic. the data and policies adopted show how in europe and in many countries it was believed that finance could replace the real economy, effectively abandoning the entire manufacturing sector.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you again for giving me the opportunity to speak in this debate, which comes just days after yet another downgrade of greece's debt by a rating agency. issues related to the nature and governance of these agencies, now almost institutionalized by their importance in our economic system, are now dominating the political debate because of their role in the global financial crisis and the current eurozone crisis. an economic system such as ours cannot function without independent entities analyzing the accounts of public and private companies. the challenge is to ensure that these rating agencies conduct their business in a transparent way and with common standards, because a mistake by them could really bring a company to its knees or make a significant contribution to the start of a new crisis. i believe that there is absolutely no need to nationalize the rating agencies but rather to make sure that a balance is struck between their independence and the need to ensure an adequate level of accountability to governments. i think that finding a balanced solution is the right way to a better future for europe as well.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the economic, social and financial crisis of these months and years, the new lisbon treaty with its new tasks and the challenge we have set ourselves with europe 2020 call for the mobilization of new and substantial financial resources. the paradox we are witnessing in this debate is that at the present stage both the commission and the council appear to us to be silent, incapable of making choices and of taking decisions. but we know that if we want to get out of the difficult economic and social phase, if we want to tackle the big issues of the environment, the development of cohesion policy and agriculture in the coming years, we need to invest more in europe and in the function of europe, and therefore in the essential function of europe, namely its budget. that is why we must not be afraid to discuss, even in a period of financial constraints, the need to invest more in resources, having the strength and capacity to develop a debate and a comparison that combine the issue of more resources with the issue of more quality and more flexibility in their use. that is the challenge that we face.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, the revision of the multiannual financial framework is an essential step for the future of the union. the treaty of lisbon transfers to the community a number of new tasks for which resources are indispensable. however, in the light of the current multiannual economic framework and the limited margins available under the various headings, it does not seem to me that the new tasks envisaged by the treaty can be financed. in the context of the crisis we are going through it is difficult to envisage an increase in the contribution of the member states, but we can review the current economic framework. we can then see how to make the best use of the resources available to us. it is therefore in this context that it is necessary to re-examine the new multiannual financial framework, because otherwise sticking your head in the sand like an ostrich to avoid seeing the problem does not seem to me to be the best strategy for dealing with it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i consider it important and my duty to speak on mrs figueiredo's report, a report which has been the subject of considerable discussion both within the femm committee, of which i am vice-chairman, and at the time of the compromise amendments and the numerous indications from the ppe group. the report, ladies and gentlemen, presents some very serious problems which have not been properly addressed and solved. it ignores ethical and cultural issues that are fundamental to the majority of the society we represent. above all, the report still does not focus on the evaluation of the results of the 2006-2010 roadmap, especially now that we are nearing the end of the four-year plans and it is important that the european parliament has a say in this matter. so i'm not hiding my misgivings about this relationship.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent days the european union, also in order to cope with the economic crisis, has imposed on my country - italy - the obligation for women employed in the public sector to retire at the age of 65, thus equalising their retirement age with that of men. i believe that we should welcome these measures as an equal responsibility, but i also believe that women feel that they have other priorities: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. then there is the great problem of inadequate services. just to give an example, with so few kindergartens it is very difficult to talk about equality. it is even difficult to find or keep a job. i am sure the european commission will demonstrate that ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteurs - and i thank them - have raised a central question which has been raised in part by commissioner reding. we must integrate more effectively and more fully women's and equal opportunities policies into general european policies and also at national level. i am thinking of the crisis, poverty, development, cooperation, employment and welfare. i believe, however, that there are three points which should be emphasized both at the level of the commission and our action and at the level of the member states. firstly, i would like to draw attention to the role of women in the european union's external action. a new policy on which women must be more present is contained in mr figueiredo's report. the second question is whether the commission supports the proposal for a directive on the european protection order, which is a fundamental instrument for ensuring the ...
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, while we are discussing these various subjects, there is a very lively debate in the united states on a subject which i consider to be central, namely the return to the principles of the glass-steagall act and the separation of ordinary banks from speculative banks which have caused the very serious failures for which our economies and our peoples are paying a heavy price. while solutions are being presented here, some ten days ago, in the closed and secret meetings of the bilderberg club, many representatives of the european high bureaucracy and political leadership probably met to give directives to the directives that will then be presented to the european parliament, which will have no choice but to examine them. i also heard this morning president barroso's call for help to be given to our greek friends. i wouldn't want the help to go mainly to his shipowner friend spiros latsis. there is a clear conflict of interest for mr barroso which he should explain.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, one thing is certain, and that is that no element of this crisis and no crisis in the last 60 years has been the result of an excess of europe. no crisis is the result of too much europe. if there is a problem in this situation too - and everyone agrees - it is that we need more europe, that there is too little europe. the most obvious contradiction is that the states, on the one hand, invoke the support of our institutions and, on the other, demand the restoration of sovereignty. and that brings us to the second contradiction. mr verhofstadt has strongly reprimanded the council in this respect and said that sovereignty must be transferred. there is, however, a small detail to consider: the sovereignty is not transferred by the states, it is transferred by the peoples. if we were to ask these peoples today whether they are prepared to transfer the entire sovereignty of the economy to the european institutions, i do not know how many of them would respond positively, because it is equally true that these same peoples are the ones who vote in the european elections to the extent of 30% and who are very distrustful of our political project. so what can we do that is realistic? how can we realistically contribute? i think the commission is on the right track. i think the commission should ask governments to commit themselves in a solidarity-based but also selective way, to make a kind of earmarking in their own budgets and in the union's budgets, thus making a concrete contribution to getting us out of the crisis.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis is serious and the citizens are asking us for one thing: putting politics back in the driver's seat of the economy. this is the responsibility we must assume by reviving the community method, by securing the currency, by promoting measures which protect our citizens and create jobs. we have a moral duty to hold the financial markets to account, but we also have a political duty, and europe must speak with one voice at the next g20. that is your problem, mr barroso. the commission must try to keep governments at a distance and convince them that no one will get out of the crisis alone. europe will win together or lose divided. you must be like a conductor, mr barroso, able to play the same music for all the players. but what should the score contain? firstly, the regulation of financial markets and credit rating agencies, the economic governance of the euro area, the taxation of all financial transactions and investments for growth, and not just budget cuts. it has, for example, struck the government's positive assessment of the italian financial manoeuvre by its commission, a manoeuvre which will bring local administrations to their knees. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all witnessing the deterioration of the budgetary situation in most member states and the increase in unemployment in the european union. the indicators indicate a level of alarm which may result in social alarm. in april 2010 statistics show that in the 24 most industrialized countries of the west there were 46 500 000 unemployed, that is to say, 3 300 000 more unemployed persons than in the same period last year. this is a particularly dramatic situation and requires cohesion and firmness. the commission's proposals seem to be going in the right and correct direction. the approach must be community-wide. a shared road map with a constructive long-term vision is needed. at the same time, there is a need for coordination of the policies of the member states with reference to budgetary laws, to protect the family, to protect individuals, to protect essentially the social cohesion of the individual member states.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i listened to this debate with great pleasure this morning. the crisis is pushing us to make decisions that may have seemed impossible before. but i wanted to ask mr barroso a question, because he was talking about growth, growth and growth, and of course also to minister garrido. the question is this: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. or do we remain in the normal and traditional budget, since the states are now unable to give one euro more than they are doing on their own?
acting president of the council. - madam president, i thank mr barroso for his words of appreciation and encouragement to the spanish presidency of the council. i really appreciate what you said. i must say that the commission has worked in an extremely important, effective and close way with the spanish presidency, and i should like to thank it in the place where it can be done most solemnly, which is in the european parliament, in this chamber. i believe that tomorrow the european council will deal with the problem that matters most in europe, which is the crisis and the way out of this very deep crisis. and above all, there will be a discussion that must be directed at the citizens, who are the ones who are really suffering from this crisis, the unemployed workers, the families, the people affected by this recession, by this decline in economic activity, by the difficult situation of public finances, of public accounts, all the consequences of this crisis. but the european union's reaction to this situation has not been to shrink back, to go backwards, but to set out with force the objectives for the future. this is stated in the annex to the council conclusions. the european union wants to reach 75% of the working population in the next decade, it wants to invest 3% of the gross product in research and development, thus affecting the competitiveness of our economy. it wants the european union to maintain its leadership in the climate change objectives expressed in the famous 20-20-20; it wants there to be no more than 10% early school leaving in the european union; it wants there to be more than 40% higher education in the european union; it wants 20 million people to be lifted out of poverty in the next few years. i think they are very important, very clear, very real objectives and clearly addressed to the citizens. and what the citizens want at the moment is to see the institutions of the union united. what they want is for all our european institutions to work on these objectives, on the policies needed to achieve them, in a cooperative, synergistic way and, therefore, for there to be collaboration, which is certainly the most outstanding aspect of the european union, for its institutions to function in a positive way, not to cancel each other out, but to multiply action, to strengthen the action of each of them. i must say that there has never been such a strong presence, with initiatives in the face of the crisis, on the part of the commission. the importance of the commission's role has been repeatedly mentioned here, and this european parliament is very sensitive to this, because the commission expresses the general european interest, but never has there been so much initiative on the part of the commission, so much respect, so much positive consideration on the part of the states. commissioner olli rehn is here, and he has been a key player in some of them. mr verhofstadt was speaking of the foreign service. we are on the verge of reaching agreement on this with the european parliament, the commission, the high representative and the council. i was also talking about the financial supervision package. i would like to mention two speeches in particular, those of mr bullmann and mr garcia-margallo and ivory, which i welcome in a positive and constructive way. i hope that in the week to which mr garcía-margallo and mr ivori referred, there can be agreement on the financial supervision package, which is absolutely essential and where both sides have to move, logically, both the european parliament and the council. and, of course, we're in that direction, because both sides have moved already. i think we can close this deal. it is essential in this respect that we reach that agreement. as i said, the commission has never been so relevant in its initiatives and the european parliament has never been so relevant. i have to say that the resolution which is to be voted on immediately afterwards in this chamber, the resolution signed by various parliamentary groups, by an overwhelming majority of members of this parliament, can be fully shared by the council. we agree with that resolution. we are on the same course as the european parliament in the fight against the crisis. the european parliament also shares the 2020 strategy, which is an essential, central element of that resolution, a strategy whose core is probably the actions of modernisation, of competitiveness, by the european union, as an objective of the european union and its states, a strategy which is binding and which is different from the previous one. some of the honourable members have also referred to this. it will be a binding strategy and in this respect the commission will have a leading role in demanding the binding nature of the objectives of the 2020 strategy. that is also part of what is called 'governance'. i would like to mention the importance of the aspects of the 2020 strategy in relation to the technological modernisation of the european union, the social impact of the measures adopted in economic policy and the green economy. it is a new strategy for the future and one supported by the binding nature of its objectives. i think this is a fundamental change, which is reflected both in the council conclusions tomorrow and in the european parliament's resolution. so i think there has never been such a closeness in the positions - which is what the citizens want - on the part of the commission, on the part of the european parliament, but i have to say also on the part of the states. the member states of the union, represented in the european council and the council, are of course an institution of the european union, another institution of the european union, together with the european parliament and the european commission. and these states are now clearly in favour of economic union, of moving from merely monetary union to economic union and economic governance. if we look at what has happened in recent months, for example when aid has been given to a country like greece, it is the member states who have taken that step. i have said on one occasion in this chamber that perhaps too slowly, but that step has been taken and there has been very important aid to greece and a financial stability mechanism has been approved in the european union, also really very relevant and which was absolutely unimaginable a few weeks ago, and it has been produced and implemented by the member states of the union. if we look at the conclusions, if we look, for example, at paragraph 15 of the draft conclusions which we examined on monday in the general affairs council and which will be discussed tomorrow, the european council's commitment to the regulation of financial services is truly spectacular. when it says that the european council calls on the council and the european parliament to adopt financial supervision measures swiftly. when he also says that the european council is calling for legislative proposals to be drawn up by the european commission on so-called 'alternative investment funds', hedge funds, he also asks that the commission's proposal for the supervision of rating agencies be examined carefully. he asks the commission to reiterate its confidence in the commission's proposals on so-called 'derivative markets', i.e. what has been called 'downside speculative shares' in stock exchange institutions. these are proposals, together with, for example, the one also in that section which talks about the need to establish a tax on financial institutions, not just banking, financial institutions; all this was, i repeat, absolutely unimaginable not long ago and is in a proposal which will be put to the european council for a resolution tomorrow. the same, of course, is inserted in the 2020 strategy itself in the resolution, which i hope will be adopted tomorrow, on the launch of the strategy by the european council, which says that all the instruments of the european union, including the european funds, the structural funds, all policies must be at the service of that strategy, at the service of the structural reforms which the european council will call for tomorrow, or when we talk about the economic governance of the european union. it was a cursed word, it was a taboo, it was heresy to talk about economic governance, about economic governance of the union. it's not like that anymore. in a text such as the european council conclusions, the economic governance of the union is discussed. these are very important steps taken by the member states, together with parliament and the commission. the message that will come out of the european council tomorrow - and in this sense the spanish presidency of the european union has had its objective since the beginning of this presidency, the presidency of the council - must therefore be a message that economic policy in europe is being led by the european union. and that is why the european union wants economic policy coordination. it is not being driven by the markets, it is being driven by the european union, and that is the proposal, that is the message, loud, firm, clear, that must emerge from the european council tomorrow. this is my last intervention from this seat for this past semester in office, and i would like to express my thanks to you, to this democratic house. for me it has been an honour to represent the council here in this european parliament; to discuss with you, to share ideas, to share thoughts, to share opinions and perspectives. i have learned a great deal this last semester and one of those lessons which i have learned is that this house, this parliament, represents the values of europe: freedom, tolerance and solidarity. these values are our real shield, our real protection, our real weapon of mass construction. for me it has been a real pleasure, an honour to be here during this last six months representing the council and representing the values of europe. (applause) i would like to thank you.
thank you, president lópez garrido, we thank you with all our heart.
member of the commission. − madam president, let me thank you first of all for a very substantive and responsible debate and for your draft resolutions on europe 2020 and economic governance. i also want to thank you for your support for the work the commission has been doing, especially in the fields of financial market reform and the reinforcement of economic governance. i would also like to thank diego lópez garrido and his team and the spanish presidency for their excellent cooperation and extraordinary performance during these very difficult times in europe with the most severe financial crisis and economic recession for ages. it has been a great pleasure to work with you and i highly appreciate that. of course i want to wish the best of success for spain today. i could wish some success for switzerland as well but only once they have joined the european union! tomorrow’s european council will take place in a rather dualistic economic situation. on the one hand, economic recovery is in progress and is increasingly gaining momentum, even though it is still gradual and fragile. on the other hand, the turmoil in the sovereign debt markets has cast a serious shadow over financial stability in europe, which could, at worst, derail the still nascent recovery of the real economy. the european union has taken coordinated and determined action to prevent a financial meltdown, but we are certainly not yet out of troubled waters. we must stabilise and reform our economies to pursue sustainable growth and create the jobs europe badly needs. that is what our citizens expect from their leaders. the european council must show the way and take bold decisions to this effect tomorrow. in that context, it is particularly essential to reinforce economic governance in europe. we need to upgrade preventive budgetary surveillance to avoid future crises, we need to address macroeconomic imbalances to go to the root of the problems and we need to construct a permanent mechanism for crisis management. all in all, it is high time to feel at ease with life in the emu and to create a genuine economic union to accompany the monetary union that already exists. the european council made a very important decision when it asked president herman van rompuy, in conjunction with the commission, to set up the task force to suggest ways and means to enhance economic governance. tomorrow president van rompuy will give a progress report on the work of the task force and the first set of orientations. the commission’s communication of 12 may has provided a solid foundation for the work of the task force. there is broad support for our initiatives and we shall follow them up shortly with concrete reform proposals. we must now seize the moment to complete the construction of the economic and monetary union. i count on your support in this regard. i count on your support for our proposals and for the community method, which we have to maintain and further reinforce in this context. let us keep up the momentum, get results and have the new system functional already by the beginning of next year. concerning the toronto summit, the overarching theme should be to strive for unity, redress the problems we are facing, reinforce confidence in the global economy and safeguard economic recovery. i took part in the preparatory meeting of finance ministers and central bank governors in busan, korea, two weeks ago and i shall also accompany president barroso to the toronto summit. there will be three priority issues in toronto. quite briefly on this, the first is fiscal consolidation. there was an important change of tone in busan in the meeting of the finance ministers and governors. they agreed that the advanced countries, especially the most vulnerable ones, need to accelerate fiscal consolidation. from the eu side we made it clear that, given the debt levels around the industrial world – in the us and japan they are higher than in europe, for the moment – the fiscal problem is a global problem and not one limited to the eu only, and this problem needs to be addressed as such. europe’s strategy of coordinated and differentiated fiscal exit was recognised, and indeed endorsed, by our g20 partners and the g20 ministers therefore agreed on the need for differentiation very much in line with the european union approach. secondly, the g20 must also aim at rebalancing global demand. this will put the world economy on a more sustainable and higher growth path as we come out of the crisis and for that it is essential that we tackle global imbalances, especially between the us and china. the third major issue is of course financial market reform. there has to be a real step forward at the toronto summit, given its importance for global stability and also for the credibility of the g20. therefore, the g20 in toronto should carry through the rules agreed on improving bank capital, taking action on non-cooperative jurisdictions, and reforming the derivatives markets. in particular, we need a strong message from toronto on bank levies and the g20 needs to show that it is coordinating and delivering on this. no consensus was reached in busan, korea, on the idea of such a levy on financial institutions to foster financial stability and strengthen the resolution framework but, on the other hand, there was agreement on developing a common set of principles on burden sharing. it is indeed essential that the public sector should not bear the cost of the financial sector’s failures, and the principles should also reflect the possible costs of resolution and incentivise appropriate behaviour. the finance ministers also agreed that further progress on the financial repair of the banking and financial sector is critical for global recovery. these discussions will continue in toronto, and i can say from the point of view of the european commission that we are in favour of broad transparency over the bank stress tests, which are essential to restoring and reinforcing confidence in the european economy. in conclusion, for both the european council and the g20 it is now high time for delivery on a smart strategy over fiscal exit, growth enhancing, balancing and reforms, financial market reforms and reinforcing economic governance. it is essential that the european council and the g20 now rise to the occasion and concretely deliver at this critical moment for the european economy as well as for the global economy.
i have received eight motions for resolutions. in accordance with article 110 (2) of the regulation. the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 16 june 2010. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the conclusions of the eu-russia summit (31 may-1 june).
i am pleased to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that in the context of the interparliamentary meetings, a delegation from the national assembly of the people's republic of china is currently on a working visit to the european parliament on the occasion of the 29th ep/china interparliamentary meeting. i extend a warm welcome to all members of this delegation. mr zha peixin, vice-chairman of the foreign affairs committee of the national assembly of the people's republic of china, and mr crescenzio rivellini, member of the european parliament, are co-chairs of this 29th meeting between our respective parliaments. the european parliament welcomes this dialogue, which has been going on for some time now with regularity and continuity. this new meeting will strengthen relations between our parliaments and will make it possible to examine in depth a wide range of issues of common interest between the european union and the people's republic of china. i hope that the meetings which have taken place and those which will take place today will contribute actively to the rapprochement between our two institutions.
we resume the discussion on the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the conclusions of the eu-russia summit (31 may-1 june).
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, russia will be a strategic partner of great importance to the european union and it is therefore essential to reach a comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreement. this agreement is a priority for our extra-european policy because it would create the right basis for full cooperation with moscow. i am thinking of bilateral trade, visa liberalization, the control of illegal immigration, the fight against terrorism and organised crime and climate change, as well as particularly urgent issues such as the iranian nuclear issue, the pacification of the caucasus and the middle east peace process. the european union should abandon some of its prejudices and act more concretely and coherently in the energy field. if we are to solve the problem of security of energy supply, we must recognize the added value of the south stream project, which provides a safe and abundant energy route for the economic recovery of the coming years. in its relations with an important partner like russia, europe should operate on two different planes: the european parliament has been a party to the treaty of rome since the beginning of the century, and it is not the council that is responsible for the decisions it takes.
vice-president of the council/high representative. − madam president, i hope that those who want to listen to the conclusion of this debate are able to do so. i am going to just concentrate on the few key points that i think a number of honourable members have raised and, to begin with, the relationship between the partnership for modernisation and the political cooperation agreement. i would stress that they are not mutually exclusive. i want to see significant progress on the cooperation agreement. we have some issues, particularly concerning the sections on trade and economic matters, but there is no doubt in my mind that we do need to complete this agreement, alongside the launching – and it was only the beginning – of the partnership for modernisation approach. i accept that there are some really serious challenges within that, as i think mr severin said but, as mr lambsdorff also said, it is a real opportunity for us to try and build on this. mr kurski, it does include issues of human rights. it is certainly not just about the technical advantages that russia would like to see. it is much broader in terms of judicial reform. if i can refer honourable members to the statement from the summit, i think you will find the breadth of what we are discussing is well captured within that. mr belder, you may also find this of value when you look at that. in terms of the ability to speak with one voice – as mrs oomen-ruijten particularly mentioned – we are in a position where we are beginning to see the eu operating much more coherently and consistently in a range of areas. i think russia enjoys and prefers to be able to speak with all 27. that will never deflect from the strong bilateral relationships that russia has – nor should it – but there are many issues, not least trade and economic issues, when the eu as 27 is much more capable of having the influence that we would wish to see in russia than individual member states would be. mr tannock, mr le pen and mr swoboda referred to two things. firstly, regarding the links on crisis management, i have been talking to sergey lavrov about how we collaborate more effectively on issues around the world. mr mölzer, kyrgyzstan had not been an issue of the significance it has become in the last 48 hours; but certainly we do keep in touch with russia on those issues and are now in touch with a range of partners. i have spent most of this weekend on the phone, in contact with kazakhstan and with others to try to take that forward. secondly, a number of members, particularly mr swoboda and mr tannock, talked about ukraine. yesterday i met the ukrainian prime minister specifically to discuss ways in which we can further the relationship between the european union and ukraine. i am very conscious that ukraine is an important state for us. it is very important in the context of what we are doing, for example, on visas and the regional dimensions – that mr brok mentioned at the beginning of our debate – that we are working absolutely coherently with our neighbours in the eastern partnership, ensuring that we move forward in a way that does not create an inappropriate imbalance for them. mr fleckenstein, the civil society dialogue is reflected in the statement. it is of enormous significance, as too is, in my view, the move of russia with the world trade organisation to now consider again the possibility of joining the wto without the full customs union, whether that is just with kazakhstan or on its own. i met recently with deputy prime minister shuvalov to see what more we can do to further that. georgia is a very significant issue. it is raised consistently. we raised it in our bilateral meetings at all levels. it is very important that we continue to work in geneva to find a resolution on this and i pay tribute to pierre morel for the work on our behalf. finally, energy is of course a deep, significant, underlying issue where we need to retain a strong partnership with ukraine and a strong partnership with russia.
i have received six motions for resolutions. in accordance with article 110 (2) of the regulation. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 17 june 2010. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for details of the vote: see minutes)
ladies and gentlemen, i would just like to point out that the voting time was 12.30 p.m. there is still a delay of 20 minutes, but not 40 minutes. i would also like to congratulate, on behalf of all the members of this house, mr. fiancee, who has recently married.
i thank you, i think that is a correct correction which we would have made automatically to adjust the approval to today's date. i therefore welcome your recommendation.
member of the commission. − mr president, the college will review, in the light of this vote, the possible options, including a withdrawal of the proposal. we will ask member states immediately how they apply the working time rules to self-employed drivers and how they monitor compliance with these rules.
i have taken the commissioner's words to mean that we should consider this possibility. if so, you are obviously right, mr berès. if the commissioner confirms his intention to withdraw, it is clear that the bureau, which i represent at the moment, will not send the dossier to the committee responsible. is that so, commissioner?
member of the commission. − mr president, i indeed said that the college will review possible options, including a withdrawal of the proposal.
mr. berès, this is your right. the rapporteur has asked to speak.
but there is a proposal from president berès. i ask that one speaker speak for and one speak against. who is against mr berès's proposal to put to the vote the rejection of the legislative proposal? no one? who's in favor? the rules of procedure do not say that mr berès's request is inadmissible, so we can put it to the vote.
that concludes the voting.
let us proceed with the explanations of vote.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because i believe that european consumers have a right to know what is in the food they eat. the commission's proposal for the recasting of community rules on food labelling is clearly intended to improve legislation on the subject. the aim is certainly to reduce red tape and create greater legal certainty for those involved in the food chain, to increase the competitiveness of the european food industry and to ensure that consumers have in-depth information on food products. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are applied in the community. in our view, the commission has oversimplified matters. i support the rapporteur's proposal on nutritional profiles, which are defined in detail but without any rigidity of scientific evaluation. in general, we cannot understand why the commission has drawn up this proposal for a regulation without recourse to the scientific expertise of experts. it is also incomprehensible that the proposal should be tabled at a time when individual scientific studies are available in certain areas and a wide-ranging investigation covering all the member states has just been launched.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on the sommer report i voted against the amendments introducing the so-called 'traffic light system'. i think that the indication of fats, salts, sugars, saturated fats and energy intake, through a simple system of matching a value, would not give the consumer correct information. there is a real risk that prepared foods, such as frozen pizza, would be penalized by having a red label because they contain cheese. paradoxically, traffic lights favour less healthy products over quality products. finally, i disagree with the calorie labelling of alcoholic beverages, including wine. clarification was given as to the place of origin and provenance of the products.
in writing. − when national and community synergies have the potential to unlock the synergy between research, competitiveness and innovation, i believe it is the responsibility of those who administer and decide to support the project. in the case of the report by mrs lena ek, measures are proposed to coordinate scientific research activities for the understanding of the interactions of the baltic sea ecosystem which are now based on national programmes. i shall therefore be voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - mr president, i share the commission's proposal, which many member states have called for, to establish enhanced cooperation in the area of the law applicable to divorce and legal separation in marriages. it is an important milestone in creating a clear regulatory framework and in providing support to spouses of different nationalities. the goal is to reduce the discomfort for the children and to protect the weaker spouse. this will encourage mediation solutions to avoid long and painful legal proceedings. as the european parliament's ombudsman for children in disputes between parents of different nationalities, i am convinced that this proposal for a regulation will encourage amicable solutions in the interests of children, by defining the duties of parents towards them and the conditions best suited to safeguarding the welfare of the children involved. the proposal also encourages the protection of the weaker spouse by preventing the so-called 'court-race' in which the other spouse seeks to ensure that the divorce proceedings are governed by a law in his or her favour. but above all, the proposal ensures, through a european judicial network in civil matters, access to up-to-date information on the essential aspects of national and union law and divorce and separation procedures to make both spouses aware of the consequences of their choices.
in writing. - although the procedure seems to have been defined, the merits and timing of estonia's accession to the single european currency do not allow me to vote in favour of the report to the house. the european economy is in a period of crisis and turbulence which should prompt us to consider whether new entrants to the euro area are appropriate, at least in the short term. my convictions, which are also based on social and cultural considerations in relation to estonia, are reinforced by some macroeconomic data. estonia was among the first countries to declare recession. in 2009 its gdp fell by over 14% while industrial production collapsed to - 33,7%, the largest contraction in the european union. this negative trend has not stopped. finally, it is paradoxical that, in the face of these figures, the report under vote asks the commission to simulate the effect of the euro area rescue package on the estonian budget only after the country has joined it and thus become a member of the group guaranteeing the rescue fund. this information should be available as soon as possible for the council to take an informed decision and to anticipate future scenarios.
in writing. - i consider the european parliament's motion for a resolution containing the observations which form an integral part of its decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2008, section ii - council, to be of fundamental importance. the proposal refers to the council's lack of involvement in the discharge procedure, which refuses to take part in parliamentary discussions on the matter, thus showing a certain disregard for parliament's role in the discharge procedure, but above all for the right of citizens and taxpayers to demand accountability from all those responsible for the commitment of union funds. the latter is particularly important to me, given that the member states in the council manage about 80% of the actual expenditure of the union budget. i fully support the request that is expressly made to the council, as i consider it necessary that the council should provide detailed information on the nature of the expenditure resulting from the exercise of specific tasks and that its expenditure should be subject to the same checks as those made for the rest of the union institutions, in the framework of the discharge procedure provided for in article 319 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road. this is a text which, by leaving the member states free to decide, would in fact exclude selfemployed persons from the scope of the directive itself. the exclusion of selfemployed would have introduced substantial discrimination in favour of this category of road hauliers, producing unfair competition between undertakings, increasingly oriented towards using more flexible and cheaper selfemployed workers, and entailing serious risks to road safety. furthermore, it should be noted that italy, in line with directive 2002/15/ec which provided for the inclusion of self-employed hauliers as from 23 march 2009, has transposed this clause in a timely manner by means of legislative decree no 234 of 2007, subjecting self-employed hauliers and employees to the same rules. for these reasons, together with my colleagues from the pdl delegation, i strongly supported the rejection of the european commission's proposal.
in writing. - we cannot accept that selfemployed workers should be excluded from the scope of the directive on the working time of road hauliers. this decision would pose serious risks to road safety, which would be compromised not only by excessive driving times but also by excessive accumulation of non-driving activities. moreover, such a decision would lead to unfair competition between transport undertakings. the use of selfemployed workers would be encouraged, who, thanks to greater flexibility, could offer services at lower costs. the exclusion of selfemployed workers could also have the counterproductive effect of pulverizing transport enterprises, with consequent market distortions. in order to avoid the directive, structured enterprises could be split up into a myriad of small enterprises. the compromise approach of leaving the member states to decide for themselves is also to be rejected, because this too would create the conditions for unequal treatment between persons belonging to different states but exercising the same occupation. i therefore voted in favour of this. moreover, discrimination between road hauliers is totally contrary to the objective of establishing a common transport policy.
in writing. - my position on the report to the house is based, among other things, on the following considerations. the report's subject, directive 2002/15/ec, does not regulate road safety but sets out rules on the organisation of activities additional to driving. the subjecting of self-employed road hauliers to these rules, which is being discussed today, is first and foremost a serious breach of freedom and autonomy of undertaking. secondly, there are obvious practical reasons for not being able to carry out checks on the actual compliance of autonomous road hauliers with the provisions of the directive, which ultimately makes their subordination to the provisions of directive 2002/15/ec unnecessary.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, although i still have some doubts about some aspects. i believe it is essential to simplify food labelling, allowing consumers to better understand the ingredients, the use and the traceability of the products. i do not agree, however, with the way in which we should achieve this. consciousness in the purchase of products is not increased by the indication of nutritional profiles, guidelines and traffic light systems. these are methods which have no scientific basis and therefore cannot be considered reliable. i am therefore satisfied with the rejection of the traffic light system, but not as satisfied with the adoption of the nutritional profiles and guidelines. finally, i support the adoption of the amendment calling for the specification of the origin of certain foodstuffs. i am a strong supporter of the indication of the origin of products, because i believe it is essential to inform the consumer of the origin of what he is buying. i hope that at the second reading we can agree on a more common text, which better balances the interests involved, health on the one hand and the food industries on the other.
in writing. − the proposal for a regulation has launched a legislative process on a subject which is of fundamental importance to citizens and businesses in the european union, such as transparency and the dissemination of information on food products. while an internal market in which all citizens and all businesses can make the best possible choices is important, it is also important to take account of the extraordinary heritage of food and wine culture that many parts of europe have in their tradition, in favour of health and economic, social and environmental sustainability. the amendments to the proposal, both in detail and in the relevant parts, have shown that the european parliament, in carrying out this fundamental function of exercising its powers, becomes the place where the interests of multinationals are dealt with, to the detriment of those of consumers. in the face of this asymmetry of power, which the pursuit of the public interest by the institution should be accompanied by, it is not surprising that citizens are increasingly distracted from the process of european integration. these observations are not motivated by national interests but by the need to preserve the specific nature of food production and the strong relationship between producers and consumers in the area.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of food information for consumers, which is the subject of mr sommer's report, deserves particular attention. it is by providing clear and comprehensive information on the origin and content of products that the consumer is protected from the risk of making uninformed consumer choices, with possible adverse effects on health. the question is also linked to the policy of protecting quality products and to a general line of action in defence of the consumer, which has been discussed on several occasions both in the plenary and in the committee on agriculture. i congratulate the honourable member on the work she has done on the commission document and i generally agree with the amendments she has proposed, particularly the opposition to the introduction of the so-called 'traffic light' labelling system, which is simplistic and misleading. under this system, some natural and quality products would be penalized compared to others artificially modified in order to obtain a green badge. i consider it an important achievement to have extended the obligation to indicate the origin also to the primary ingredients in processed products, whereas i would have liked a negative vote on the derogations to the methods of classifying products, because they risk rendering the whole legislation ineffective.
in writing. - my position on the report to the house is based, among other things, on the proposal to introduce a multi-colour labelling system. the quality of food depends on many complex factors which cannot be represented appropriately by a different colour on the label. according to authoritative studies on the subject, there are no numerical thresholds for an accurate division of foodstuffs between the different colours proposed. therefore, the adoption of a multi-colour labelling system would unduly influence the assessments of consumers who should instead be able to make their own choices on the basis of transparent information.
in writing. - mr president, i listened with interest to the reports by commission president barroso and president van rompuy. while i welcome the improvements in european economic governance towards a common approach, i sincerely believe that the outcome of the summit is merely declarations of intent. in fact, at this particular moment in history, it is necessary to create a more solid common basis for dealing with the budget deficits of individual states and restoring the confidence of the financial markets and our citizens. i certainly share the objective of the eu 2020 strategy, which is to strengthen the competitiveness of the 27 member states. it will be crucial, if we are to win this challenge of future economic leadership, to have clear rules that are workable for everyone. we must avoid making the same mistakes as those made with the lisbon strategy, with consequences for citizens, jobs and economic growth.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am thinking of the victims of the peace-keeping fleet, but i am also thinking of israel, especially today when the entire international community, or almost the entire international community, is looking at it with a critical eye. that is why i say to the state of israel today that we must be prepared to listen to its arguments and that the dialogue must not be interrupted. if i could, i would like to satisfy that anxiety about security, this sense of being surrounded not just by the israeli government but by the public opinion in this country that feels insecure and misunderstood. but we also want israel's security, we want its prosperity and also its moral prosperity. that is why our desire to listen to israel's arguments is animated by the supreme desire for peace and is coupled with the duty to tell this government that we have not understood its policy for years. what happened, moreover, is not an isolated incident. there is a common thread that links the assault on the flotilla and the expulsion of arabs from their homes in east jerusalem, the building of the wall in the palestinian territories and the blockade and attack on gaza last year, and also the threats to the zoabi arab minority parliamentarian. it is the red thread of a policy which often divides and humiliates the palestinians and which ignores international appeals and norms, reinforcing the extremism of all sides, including israel, and perhaps forever pushing away the prospect of peace based on two states for two peoples. it is also the red thread of a policy which is increasingly devoid of the ethical traits of the great jewish humanistic tradition on which we have all been trained. but the responsibility for the tragedy of the fleet also lies with the entire international community and this phantom quartet which for too long has tolerated with condescension some dangerous political drift. the resolution we are voting on today contains clear paragraphs calling for a change in the direction of european policy, especially now that we have new institutional instruments and that we no longer have any excuse not to make our voice heard, even in the face of these additional victims. and i wish it was the voice of eli vizel, when he wrote that evil cannot be defined as inhuman, unfortunately, but that at least politics is free of this evil.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear from a first examination of the facts that the flotilla's despatch to gaza was for political rather than humanitarian reasons. the convoy was prepared by ihh, a turkish organization linked to islamic extremism. furthermore, on the eve of the flotilla's departure, hamas leader haniyeh said in a statement: "if the ships reach gaza it will be a victory for hamas, if they are intercepted it will be a victory anyway". the lack of interest in humanitarian causes is confirmed by hamas' refusal to accept humanitarian aid to gaza that arrived via the irish ship rachel corrie in the port of ashdod. if hamas wins, it loses not only israel but also the pa and the chance to resume the peace process. the naval and land blockade around gaza, implemented by israel and egypt since 2007 to control arms trafficking, was shared just a few days ago by pa president mahmud abbas in his meeting with president obama and we have confirmation in all the newspapers. we must prevent gaza from becoming a launching pad for missiles against israel and a destabilising element in the region's balance, and we must allow a large humanitarian influx to help the people of gaza. i ask the high representative to extend the objective fact-finding to include the possible involvement of countries such as turkey and iran in the organisation of the expedition.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, nothing can justify what has happened, and i feel that we are facing a brutal act of amateurism on the part of israel. perhaps there is still not a proper awareness in the israeli ruling class that israel's security is achieved only if the peace process makes progress and not through the escalation of tension. in this context, the resolution before parliament is an important response by this institution to the difficult question of gaza. however, this tragic event requires europe to make a decisive leap in its approach to the middle east question. i think you are aware, mrs ashton, that what is needed today is a new european role, stronger action aimed at putting the indirect negotiations back on track. stop this foolish settlement policy and lift the blockade on gaza. the european parliament's resolution provides an important point of reference. it is to be used so that european action can make a serious contribution to overcoming the conflict and defeating all extremist positions as well as to achieving the two-state objective.
author of the book. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, article 5 of the universal declaration of human rights states: "no individual shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment". this prohibition applies in all circumstances and is a peremptory norm of international law and as such applies to all states. not only the universal declaration of human rights but also the united nations convention and the european convention seek to protect human rights against torture. the european union and its member states take these obligations very seriously. we also consider that the fight against torture is a top priority for the european union, given that next week we will be celebrating the international day against torture. it is precisely in order to comply with these very important legal and moral obligations that trade in material intended for the purpose of torture or other inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment needs to be closely monitored. the adoption of the regulation was a major step forward at the time of its adoption, as was also confirmed by the un special rapporteur on the fight against torture. moreover, this regulation is a model in terms of international legislation on the subject. unfortunately, the application of this regulation has not been as exemplary as the adoption of the regulation itself: only seven member states submitted one or more of the annual public reports provided for in article 13 of the regulation containing detailed information on the authorisations granted for the import and export of goods which could be used for torture. these reports are an essential element in assessing full compliance with the regulation. an analysis of the authorisations granted raises a number of questions about the end-use and destination of the goods. the authorities responsible for authorising exports must therefore carry out a more thorough policy assessment before proceeding. the member states which have also communicated information on the penalties applicable for infringement of the provisions of the council regulation, as provided for in article 17 thereof, are not many. almost five years after the adoption of the regulation, the list of goods identified in the annexes to the regulation needs to be updated. man can be very cruel, and at times it seems that the human imagination for inflicting suffering on others is limitless. so it is vital to keep up with the technological developments in this sad area. the time has therefore come to raise the issue in the european parliament and to ask the european union and its member states to demonstrate that they are living up to their commitments. as members of the european parliament, it is our democratic duty to ensure that the institutions are accountable. that is why we want detailed information on what has been done so far to ensure full compliance with the regulation, but also on the measures that will improve the situation in the future. we welcome, as a first step, the decision of the committee overseeing the application of the regulation at the end of this month. let us never forget that council regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 is not just a bunch of fancy words but a fundamental and essential instrument that must be fully implemented now.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs ashton, human rights defenders play a crucial role throughout the world, often putting their own lives at risk. respect for human rights is one of the founding values of the european union and has always been at the heart of its construction. that is why it is important to keep a constant eye on the respect of these rights as a whole. in this sense, the work done in parliament on this subject is crucial and for this reason i thank my fellow rapporteur, heidi hautala, for her excellent report to which the socialist and democratic group has made a decisive and constructive contribution. our eyes must look beyond this. i believe that it is time to take on a clear responsibility, namely to begin to treat respect for human rights as a complex phenomenon which today requires us to give it a higher and more comprehensive meaning. i firmly believe, mr president, that fundamental rights should include the right to equitable access to natural resources, to water as well as to food, the right to health care, the right to education and the right to access to information. with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, i believe that the new external action service should be used to the full, including structures and figures committed to respect for human rights. mrs ashton was already mentioning this morning about the russian federation and relations with it. challenges, these, that are often underestimated, but that we face every day. the european union can and must continue to play a leading role on the world stage.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, bosnia-herzegovina is the country in the western balkans which has made the least progress in meeting the criteria suggested by the european commission, despite being the region where the international community and the european union have been most present, with ad hoc institutions and financial aid. bosnia and herzegovina is still facing major difficulties. the european union cannot envisage the future accession of a country where the high representative is still present and actively involved in the political decision-making process. progress will therefore depend to a large extent on a gradual process of the representative office. it is not clear how the various political partners can work together. the country is divided between the republic of serbia and the federation, and is also divided into three main ethnic groups, each representing a minority in its own part of the territory. as a result, the population has declined over the past decade from 4.5 million to 3.4 million. it seems that the people themselves are no longer convinced that there is a future for their country. the prospect of accession to the european union was offered to bosnia and herzegovina by considering it as a single country and not as separate territorial parts. in bosnia-herzegovina, therefore, a decision must be taken whether to join a single country before any further consideration of membership can be made.
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you for grounding me from air to rail now. it is my privilege to stand before parliament to speak on this matter. i would like to thank parliament very much for its support for the efforts of the european commission to control the proper implementation of the first railway package by member states, which is their responsibility. the commission, for its part, has complied with its obligations as guardian of the treaty by sending reasoned opinions to 22 member states for incorrect implementation of the first package. i can assure you that the commission will not hesitate to take member states which are still not complying with european legislation to the court of justice. while the specific legal details of the infringement procedures are a matter between the commission and the member states, our services have already submitted to the committee on transport and tourism, earlier this year, a complete list of all infringements. we also share the regret expressed by the committee that the level of investment in rail infrastructure remains insufficient in many member states. however, the commission cannot agree with the statement that it has not sufficiently focused monitoring on the financial foundations of the railway system. the directives of the first railway package only prescribe that member states have to ensure a balanced budget for the infrastructure managers over a reasonable period of time. where the commission has found evidence that member states have not respected this provision, infringement procedures have been opened. some interest groups want to go further and think that the commission could oblige member states to increase investment in the railway sector in general. we might like to see this, but there is no legal base to support it. that being said, the commission has, on several occasions, made a political appeal to member states because we recognise the importance of investment in rail infrastructure to promote a sustainable transport system in europe. not very long ago there was a discussion on that question in this chamber, in the context of the volcanic ash cloud and the implications it had for connectivity within europe and between europe and the rest of the world. i note the wish that the revisions of the first railway package should address the question of lack of resources and powers of regulatory bodies as a priority. i can assure you that the forthcoming commission proposals will do just that. the recast of the first package will also contribute to clarifying principles of infrastructure access charging, in line with the request from parliament. on the independence of essential functions, the commission has already made its position very clear in its communication of may 2006. infrastructure managers must be independent from railway undertakings and railway holdings. a holding should not have operational control over its infrastructure subsidiary. control and independence exclude each other: you cannot have both at the same time. based on the case law of the court of justice, we have established clear criteria for assessing the independence of an infrastructure subsidiary from the holding company. i am therefore confident that the commission will win this argument in the forthcoming court procedures. the resolution also calls for the application of a reciprocity principle. however this is not a principle that we can accept in european legislation in general. each member state has to comply with the european directives as they stand, independently of what other member states do. otherwise implementation would always follow the path of the slowest member state. in conclusion, i acknowledge the critical view the draft resolution takes on the implementation of the first railway package by the member states. i reassure you again that the commission has done – and intends to continue to do – its job as guardian of the treaty. the commission should not be left alone in pushing for rail market opening and, ultimately, for the revitalisation of rail as a sustainable and efficient mode of transport. we count on your support to make european rail policy a full success and a contribution to getting europe out of the present economic crisis.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it is undeniable that too much time has been lost on the implementation of the first railway package. as is well known, the three directives were adopted in 2001 and were to be transposed into national law by 15 march 2003. in view of the review of the first railway package, i would like to focus, in addition to the investment issue which the commissioner has rightly mentioned, on three concepts which i believe are essential for the proper implementation of the first railway package, three concepts which i think the commission should take into account. first, the various difficulties that have emerged in recent years have revealed issues that need to be clarified regarding the different legal interpretations of the independence of infrastructure managers. i think, madam commissioner, that there is still room for some further clarification on this subject, because it has been one of the obstacles we have encountered in recent years, and i hope that, when the first package is being reviewed, we will finally be able to arrive at a clear interpretation. secondly, i believe that the completion of the liberalisation of the railway market must be seen as the top priority for all member states. as we know, everyone is in favour of liberalization, but few are prepared to try it out in their own countries. for these reasons, the full implementation of the first package is an essential condition for achieving this result. i therefore ask the commission to step up its action in this direction. finally, it is no longer conceivable that undertakings operating under absolute monopoly conditions within their national borders could exploit this competitive advantage to the detriment of competing undertakings in countries which have opened up their internal market. for this reason, while sharing the strategic objective of liberalization, we believe - and we have also included it with mr grosch in the text of the resolution we are voting on tomorrow - that the principle of reciprocity, which is necessary today in the run-up to the completion of the opening up of the market, must be affirmed and applied.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i think that for almost 20 years there has been talk of revising this railway package and i think that this is a very bad example to follow. the european parliament approved yesterday the european rail network for competitive freight transport, with the aim of improving traffic on the main european routes. the free movement of goods must be guaranteed by the removal of all kinds of barriers, both physical and administrative, and we must make the market free from the point of view of barriers, from the point of view of simplification of procedures and from the point of view of the market itself in reciprocity. this word has been mentioned in many of the speeches that have gone before me. i believe that the separation of structure from management and investment through the public-private system is a good thing. i imagine that all this can happen in a transparent free market and that it can allow everyone to be able to get into a market that is in dire need today. i believe that europe would do well, especially at this time of economic or financial difficulties, to allocate and also to set up funds for investment to encourage and urge the private sector to invest and to make up for lost time, all of which, of course, is in the field of safety and the protection and preservation of the environment. these aspects must be safeguarded. but it is time for the commission to give us clear answers to these questions today.
substitute writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we wanted this oral question and a parliamentary resolution to make it clear to the commission that, within the framework of the stockholm programme, it is very important to build a european legal culture that is widespread in our territory. i would say at once that this is important, but also that, in view of the communication which the commission will have to produce on future pilot projects, as has been said, we would like to clarify some concepts. first of all, that parliament's consultations begin early and that they reach the initial stage, when the idea of these future projects is being sketched out, so as not to arrive too late, when the projects are already quite fully formulated. i say this because we have some background observations to make. the national judiciary, the lawyer of the individual states, is today a decisive factor in the construction of europe because, by interpreting national laws in a european way, it provides the conditions for resolving conflicts and regulating the daily life of citizens. in this way, it establishes european citizenship, it establishes a european sensibility of all those who live in these territories so that they can experience firsthand the benefits of the introduction of european elements in all the laws of the states, and therefore above all community law, in order to make life better for the citizens. there are real benefits to responding to problems that would otherwise remain unresolved. i would say that we would like to turn the tables a little bit. for example, we would not agree that these projects should be erasmus-style, because the number of judges and lawyers involved in erasmus-style projects would be very low, as can only be the case because of the high costs of physical mobility in this field, and therefore they would not be very relevant in the overall context of the judiciary. but the most important issue is the term 'familiarisation of courses' which we introduced in our paper. magistrates are not schoolchildren sitting in school desks where lessons are taught; the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a good example of the need to ensure that the protection of workers from the risks related to asbestos is not jeopardised by the introduction of new technologies. these cases and problems are new and should stimulate the professional growth of these legal practitioners by giving them the incentive to make a real contribution, based on the autobiographical reflection of their experience and what they have learned, to respond to the challenges that europe is presenting in positive terms. as you can see, mr president, commissioner, we intend to add something new to the tradition of the courses which have been given up to now and which we consider to be of little effect in this respect. we would like to know how much and what funds are available and to express our doubts about the idea - as it is written in the communication - of a central european institution governing this process, because we are in favour of a movement from below and not of centralisation. this is a new set-up. what we are trying to say is that unless a european mentality is formed among judges and lawyers, who in this way offer their services to justice and to the citizens who demand it, we shall not make europe. so this is not just an important card for european justice, it is an important card for the whole development of european unity.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the council, on 4 may last we voted unanimously in committee on the report on european aquaculture, which is essentially aimed at promoting the sustainable development of the sector. i would like to begin by thanking all those who have worked on this report over the past few months and who have given me valuable support. it is a text which has been the result of many months of work, consultation and mutual agreement, and which i hope will indeed constitute the starting point for the serious, concrete and effective promotion of an appropriate policy on aquaculture. i also think that a healthy and sustainable development, with its technological potential and its innovative component, is a very important asset for the european economy. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and for the commission to be able to take action to combat fraud. they have shown that they are aware of the negative consequences of the absence of a single regulation for aquaculture, the disorientation of operators, complex and excessively bureaucratic procedures, real situations of discrimination, market distortions and the lack of competitiveness of european production. the report argues that the sector needs to be given a boost by establishing a specific fund for aquaculture, either autonomous or part of the european fisheries fund, which would support research and innovation, ensure a virtuous coexistence between sustainability and competitiveness, and maintain a high level of attention to employment issues. the measures to be taken in the short term to deal with and solve all the problems currently affecting this sector are certainly not few and far between. i am referring to an integrated management plan for marine urban planning, which is essential to make freshwater, sub-coastal and offshore aquaculture compatible with tourist areas and those destined for other important economic activities, all within the framework of the rules on respect for environmental protection. i am referring to the drafting of a regulation which takes account of the specificities of the various types of aquaculture farming, to be introduced also and above all with the aim of lowering production costs and ensuring respect for the environment. in this context, i believe that the contribution of both technological innovation and scientific research is crucial. the aim is to set up facilities to reduce the dispersion of feed in water. in this connection, it will be necessary to increase the use of vegetable proteins over animal proteins without altering the nutritional value of the fish. as regards scientific research on feedingstuffs in particular, the emphasis will also have to be on discarding and processing waste to avoid the likely imbalances in the marine system resulting from a dangerous over-harvesting for fish feed. the use of the european quality mark is useful for competing with products imported from third countries and for satisfying the needs and health of consumers. i believe that it is now essential to introduce product certification and a control of the chain to identify the product, with a consequent reformulation of the labelling systems. last but not least, it is necessary to design facilities which are more respectful of the welfare of fish, of the density of farms and of the slaughter systems, all measures which should also be applied to organic products, which in fact result from a smaller production and a lower environmental impact. the employment issue should not be underestimated, as aquaculture can also be the preferred place for the employment of personnel displaced from fishing. a broad vote in this parliament will certainly be the best way for the commission, after its communication and our reasoned opinion, to propose the necessary measures, going beyond the stage of recommendation to the states, to build a community policy and to get out of the situation of being a producer of one million two hundred thousand tonnes of fish and a consumer of over five and a half million tonnes. thank you. sorry for the delay.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, my name is pirillo, but my name is still often mispronounced. thank you, president, by the way. i welcome the excellent and well-articulated report by mr guido milana, who has done a remarkable job of linking up the various needs of all the member states. aquaculture is an important sector for europe's economy, for employment, for genuine production, for healthy food and for the protection of the marine environment. the introduction of strict and transparent criteria for product quality and traceability, ecological quality, feed control, etc. are the main points of this initiative. the european commission will, i hope, present a proposal for a regulation shortly and will make available the community resources needed for the construction of aquaculture installations, by simplifying bureaucratic procedures.
member of the commission. − madam president, this was really a constructive and very fruitful discussion, with so many interventions from so many member states. so let me continue in greek, because i would not like to affirm that this is a scottish debate. νομίζω ότι χρειάζεται πραγματικά να συμφωνήσουμε - και συμφωνώ με όλους όσους το υποστήριξαν - ότι πρέπει να κάνουμε περισσότερα για την υδατοκαλλιέργεια. χρειάζεται να κάνουμε περισσότερα γιατί σε αυτήν την περίοδο, όπου υπάρχει αυξανόμενη ζήτηση για την κατανάλωση ψαριών και συγχρόνως υπάρχει αύξηση των εισαγωγών καθώς και όλη αυτή η κατάσταση με την υπεραλίευση στις θάλασσές μας, πρέπει να οδηγηθούμε σε σοβαρότερη αντιμετώπιση της υδατοκαλλιέργειας. φυσικά μιλούμε για υδατοκαλλιέργεια που σέβεται την αειφορία και την καλή μεταχείριση των ζώων. η σκέψη μου λοιπόν και η πρόθεσή μου, συμφωνώντας με τους περισσότερους από όσους μίλησαν, είναι να έχουμε ένα κεφάλαιο για την υδατοκαλλιέργεια στα πλαίσια της μεταρρύθμισης της κοινής αλιευτικής πολιτικής (cfp reform). μιλώ όμως για ένα κεφάλαιο που θα διαγράφει ένα γενικό πλαίσιο. συμφωνώ με όλους όσους ανέφεραν ότι αυτό που χρειαζόμαστε είναι απλή νομοθεσία, όχι υπερβολική επιβάρυνση με λεπτομερειακές αναφορές που περισσότερο θα δεσμεύουν και θα βαραίνουν την ανάπτυξη της υδατοκαλλιέργειας. μιλώ λοιπόν για ένα γενικό πλαίσιο το οποίο θα είναι ενιαίο. η προσπάθειά μου είναι να ακολουθήσω την υπόδειξη και της έκθεσης του κ. milana ώστε να έχουμε, κατά το δυνατόν, στα πλαίσια της δικής μου αρμοδιότητας τουλάχιστον, ένα ενοποιημένο πλαίσιο για την υδατοκαλλιέργεια και μια ξεχωριστή γραμμή χρηματοδότησης. αυτά είναι τα δύο βασικά που επιθυμώ. δεν μπορώ όμως να καλύψω αρμοδιότητες άλλων διευθύνσεων, όπως δεν καλύπτονται οι άλλες διευθύνσεις σε νομοθεσίες για άλλου είδους θέματα. η ιδιαίτερη γραμμή χρηματοδότησης θα οδηγηθεί κυρίως στη χρηματοδότηση της έρευνας που αφορά και τη βιοποικιλότητα και την εισαγωγή νέων ειδών, αλλά και τη διατήρηση της αειφορίας ώστε πραγματικά οι υδατοκαλλιέργειες να είναι συμβατές με το περιβάλλον. και έχουν γίνει πολλά βήματα για αυτό. τέλος, όσον αφορά τα θέματα του labelling και ecolabelling, της πιστοποίησης, προσπαθούμε να σεβαστούμε αυτά που ήδη συμβαίνουν. απλώς θα θέσουμε ορισμένες προδιαγραφές, με βάση τις οποίες τα labels και τα ecolabels που υπάρχουν σε πολλές χώρες θα είναι συμβατά με το ευρωπαϊκό κεκτημένο. γενικότερα θα ήθελα να διαβεβαιώσω ότι θα σεβαστούμε αυτά που κάνουν τα κράτη μέλη και οι περιφέρειες στον τομέα αυτό. δεν έχουμε σκοπό να παρέμβουμε στα θέματα αυτά. όσον αφορά το αίτημα για την ύπαρξη ενός ευρωπαϊκού σχεδίου για την αντιμετώπιση του προβλήματος με τα αρπακτικά, και ειδικότερα με τους κορμοράνους, καταλαβαίνω την ανάγκη να είμαστε πιο συντονισμένοι στο θέμα αυτό, αλλά είναι πολύ δύσκολο να κάνουμε μια πρόταση αυτή τη στιγμή. θέλω να σας ενημερώσω ότι υπάρχουν πολύ μεγάλες διαφωνίες ανάμεσα στα κράτη μέλη για τον τρόπο με τον οποίο μπορούμε να χειριστούμε το ζήτημα και πρέπει να συνεχίσουμε να εργαζόμαστε πάνω σε αυτό.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the debate and the positive words on this document, which has been very much shared in recent months. commissioner, you have a historic opportunity. in 2001 this parliament discussed the same thing, making a communication, and nothing came of it. i think that today, however, all the conditions are in place, because since 2001 the world has moved with +6% of aquaculture production, while europe has barely reached 0.8% more. so you really have a chance, with such a broad consensus, which i think will turn into a large majority vote in parliament in an hour, to put this work to good use. the council has also encouraged it to do so, and it fully shares the approach being taken by parliament. so i think this opportunity should be used in two ways. delegating and simplifying - i wanted to tell stevenson that there is no more - does not mean lowering the level of guarantees for operators and consumers. delegation often means, perhaps, making the guarantees clearer, both for consumers and for producers. so an effort is needed in this regard. there's one thing i don't agree with, either. i think that he is overly resigned to question the union's framework of powers for the directorates-general. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. if there is one thing that seems clear to me, and one thing that parliament is clearly pointing out today, it is the need not to be always restricted to the powers of the directorates-general. there is someone who gives skills, so i invite you to think about skills too. this does not mean that those who are responsible for the environment are deprived of a role and a function, nor does it mean that those who are responsible for consumer affairs are deprived of a function, but it means that we have a europe which integrates these functions to the full. the single regulation is essentially just that, it is intended to rationalize the rules to make them simpler and more practical for operators. i am tempted to go on holiday to scotland after this morning's speech, and perhaps i will reflect on this, but i would not disdain greece either if this were the place to convince you of the last things that separate us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would just like to emphasize two things, while thanking mr romeva i rueda for the extraordinary work he has done. the first point is that this is an important occasion because, for the first time, we are passing a law at first reading. the second is that this work has a deadline, the deadline is - as mr romeva i rueda said at the beginning - the next cites convention, which is four years from now. if what we have written today, what we are going to approve today, works, then probably in four years we will not have - and i hope so - the problem of inclusion in cites. i hope not so much for the fishermen, but for the tuna! the effectiveness of our action depends on our ability to apply the regulation adopted today and to create the conditions for control over the next four years. i want to say a few words about that. we have an extraordinary monitoring agency based in vigo, which is doing a good job of monitoring tuna fishing in the mediterranean. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to the full. i think we should look at this agency and try to create the conditions for it to have direct control management and greater authority beyond mere coordination. sorry about the weather.
in writing. - i am convinced that the defence of cultural identities requires strict protection of the territory and the natural resources which characterize it and guarantee its unique characteristics. i can therefore only support measures which, while preserving artisanal fishing, are aimed at protecting bluefin tuna, which has been exposed to a serious risk of extinction by indiscriminate exploitation by large-scale industry for international export. i therefore vote in favour of the report by mr romeva i rueda.
in writing. - thank you for the opportunity to explain the reasons why i voted in favour of the bluefin tuna catch documentation programme. i believe there is a general consensus in the european parliament on the need to safeguard species that are in danger of extinction. biodiversity is truly a 'world heritage' and states and the entire international community must do everything possible to protect it. in this sense, the management of bluefin tuna is correct. if the bluefin tuna stock is continuing to decline, finding a way to safeguard it must be a priority for us. the system of documentation of bluefin tuna catches proposed in this report, which implements the one already approved by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas, therefore seems to me to be a good idea. i believe that this new programme can really help to solve the problem of the reduction of bluefin tuna, although it will create some obstacles for our small-scale european fishermen, who remain one of the categories most affected by the crisis and who need help in other ways.
in writing. the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation amends the existing regulation on the documentation of catches of bluefin tuna (thunnus thynnus). one of the main reasons for a proposal for amendment is the vicissitudes of iccat, the international commission for the conservation of the tunas of the adriatic, which is also responsible for the atlantic bluefin tuna catch. this commission was born as a fighting organisation which sought to fight with alternative measures against wild fishing. it was a matter of imposing trade measures on those countries whose vessels were catching endangered species in disregard of iccat rules. i mentioned that there is already a catch documentation programme for bluefin tuna, the dct, which is probably the most complex documentation programme for a single fish species. however, i very much welcome the proposal to extend and improve this programme by adding new data such as catch, exporter or retailer, transhipment, farming, harvesting and trade information. finally, i am delighted to know that such an initiative, if adopted, would be part of the european union's much-publicized commitment to abolish illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have already fought in the past to ensure that bluefin tuna is not included in annex i to the cites convention and that fishing and marketing is not prevented. the iccat recommendations confirmed that we were on the right track and that only by managing resources more responsibly can we prevent the depletion of bluefin tuna stocks and at the same time protect our fishermen, who are already facing a difficult crisis. managing resources means fighting illegal fishing, establishing a strict system of quota control, proposing innovative measures for stock management and monitoring trade flows. that is why i voted in favour of these new rules which, by requiring the provision of complete documentation from the time of capture to the time of sale, ensure reliable traceability of every stage of the supply chain. prevention will help to protect bluefin tuna without penalising - and i repeat this - the honest fishermen who, in their own interests, are the first to want this fish species to remain.
in writing. - my abstention from voting on the report is not due to a lack of recognition of the social and human importance of women. rather, because i find it reductive to blame the current economic crisis on men, as a male gender. in the text presented to this house today i have also found quite a few elements contained in earlier documents and already approved by the committee on women's rights. i am also convinced that women are endowed by their very nature with more outstanding managerial and administrative skills than we men and that in modern society they still have to be recognised for the actual prestigious roles they are given. however, the economic crisis has very different roots and causes, which are not due to the lack of women on the boards of banks or rating agencies. one of the most serious consequences of this crisis is the high unemployment rate, which is affecting everyone terribly, especially young people and women. i believe that the european union has long been committed to the recognition of the role of women in society, and the women's parliamentary committee itself is a clear example of this. at the same time, however, i believe that much more needs to be done by the eu to promote and recognise the rightful value of women.
in writing. - the romeva i rueda report has some obvious criticisms which today lead us to express ourselves in a distorted way on the individual paragraphs that articulate it. the gendered aspects of the economic recession and financial crisis are real and evident and are not being questioned today. the inclusion of numerous names has led the discussion to exploit gender aspects, the gender appellation between man and woman, making the whole framework of the report uneven and somewhat criticizable. the individual votes will defend the positions already highlighted in the committee and always defended with conviction by the beliefs and principles common to the majority of the societies we represent.
in writing. - i take this opportunity to explain the reasons for my vote in favour of this resolution in this debate which took place during the world cup in south africa. a former football player who also wrote her university thesis on corporate management like me could not refrain from speaking today. i believe that this resolution has struck the right balance between the need to preserve self-regulation, which is also dictated by the cultural and social role played by football, and the need to guarantee legal certainty for its economic aspects. i also welcome the fact that reference is also made to the fight against money laundering, racism and violence in stadiums. i believe that this parliament must use this report to express itself unanimously, clearly and decisively on these issues. i also welcome the fact that the emphasis has been placed on the employment and social problems linked to professional football. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the european football association.
in writing. - mr president, we must express our solidarity with the families of the victims. we cannot remain indifferent to the situation in the gaza strip, which is undergoing a military blockade imposed on the movement of goods and people and which has now created a humanitarian disaster. but today we are pleased to learn that the israeli government will ease the blockade to facilitate the entry of material goods for civilian use. it is an important sign of responsibility, especially because it is good to remember that in gaza 80% of the population lives in poverty, without food and without the products necessary for basic humanitarian needs at the expense of the most vulnerable groups. i therefore believe that the european union's support and assistance in resuming negotiations between israel and the palestinian authority is essential, not only to end the blockade but above all to start a peace process which must lead to the establishment of two states in conditions of security and freedom. a difficult path that must be followed by many small and large actions, starting on the one hand with the lifting of the blockade on gaza and, on the other, with the release of galad shalit, the israeli soldier who has been in the hands of hamas since june 2006.
in writing. - i would have voted in favour of the joint resolution which my group also supported. the pdl delegation, however, wanted to make a distinction and decided to abstain. for this reason, i decided not to take part in the vote, although i fully agree with the text of the joint resolution, which i consider to be balanced, because it states the need for a credible and transparent investigation into the events of 31 may, the need to overcome the naval blockade on gaza, the objective of mending relations with turkey so as not to destabilise the area further, the release of israeli sergeant shalit, who has been held by hamas since june 2006, and the prospect of 'two peoples in two states' as the only solution to the conflicts in the area.
in writing. the resolution we are voting on today critically underlines the complications encountered by bosnia-herzegovina's march towards membership of the european union. this is a country which shows that it has no credentials in terms of the guarantees of the democratic system and the fight against the corruption which is rampant in bosnia. beyond the criticisms rightly pointed out in the report, however, it would still be believed that the union would benefit somewhat from the accession of this country to europe. in all honesty, i do not see what advantage the accession of a country can bring that, in the event of accession, would do nothing but - like other candidate countries - to shift its internal economic, social and democratic problems onto the shoulders of the member states. we should also be concerned about the growing distress, discrimination and hostility faced by the christian community in bosnia, a country with a muslim majority where social and economic rights are enforced with a different standard depending on religious affiliation. i do not believe that bosnia-herzegovina has any right to seek eu membership. we are therefore considering blocking the accession process in such a way as to avoid certain damage to our citizens.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption in plenary of the resolution on the implementation of the directives of the first railway package. i believe that the time lost in implementing this package is unacceptable and that the european commission's intervention must be a priority. in particular, i believe there are three key concepts to focus on. first, the achievement of a single interpretation of the independence of infrastructure managers. secondly, the completion of a genuine liberalisation of the railway market, which is a top priority for all the member states of the european union, for which intensified action by the european commission with realistic deadlines is needed. finally, pending full liberalisation, it is necessary to ensure that the principle of reciprocity is respected in order to avoid unfair competition between competing firms in countries with an open market. i have tabled a specific amendment on this point in committee, the content of which has been incorporated into the final text, which i strongly supported.
in writing. - i would like to express my condolences and my closeness to the people affected by the recent floods in poland, hungary, slovakia and the czech republic. as the permanent rapporteur for the european solidarity fund, i call on the commission to activate the procedures for mobilising the fund promptly and with the greatest possible flexibility, as soon as the member states' governments have submitted their requests. i also believe that it is essential to implement the action of the european solidarity fund. i therefore urge the spanish presidency and the commission to follow up the indications of parliament, which already in may 2006 had recognised by a majority the need to give more flexibility and more strength to such an important and urgent instrument of support.
in writing. − aquaculture is a strategic sector employing some 64,000 people directly and indirectly. its role in sustainable development is therefore as strategic as its role in the employment dynamics of the coastal and lake economies, considering that european aquaculture represents only 2% of the world's aquaculture, so that domestic needs and consumption must be covered annually by 2/3 by products imported from third countries. i can therefore only support the report by mr milana, who, with a view to increasing the overall efficiency of the sector, has collected and drawn up a number of proposals for a future legislative proposal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president-in-office, since i am among the last to speak, i would like to offer you some comfort: i think it is very good that you have reminded us here that you are not the expression of governments but of europe and the european union as such, a statement which is obvious, but which is obviously not so for many. we therefore ask you to insist on your role so that the stable presidency of the union can provide those incentives, those comforts, and force governments to turn their words into deeds. we have appreciated what has been done in these months, the idea of the task force and also the fact that the heads of state and government have been forced to draw up an important document, because the things that are written in that document, mr president, if they are translated into facts - but we are not so convinced that all the member states want to translate them into facts - are certainly important. for example, we do not know whether the statements in the final document on the taxation of financial transactions or the taxation of banks will actually be translated into fact. we are waiting for the task force's conclusions to see whether these effective tools, together with the claims on economic governance, together with the claims on growth, are really an essential postulate of political action. we wanted the constituent process, which ended with the treaty of lisbon, to mark a new beginning: we hope that the permanent presidency of the union will insist - as it also said in its reply - that these facts become a reality.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i listened carefully to the speeches of the president of the council and the president of the commission, and both expressed their wish for the fullest possible cooperation with parliament in the face of the challenges ahead: governance, financial and banking regulations and strategy 2020. it is also good that the task force is asked to complete its work and formulate real proposals by september. he also referred to non-european interventions such as cooperation and development, international sanctions, nuclear and the environment. almost everything that has been said is acceptable, but it is clear that it must now be put into practice. we live in a europe in deep crisis: millions of jobs have been lost and a real recovery is still far off; the european centre for the development of vocational training estimates that by 2020 8.5 million new jobs will be created, including replacements, but most of these will be for the highly or medium-skilled categories, at the expense of the low-skilled ones. here is our challenge: the european union is a global community of nations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president van rompuy used the expression 'gradually' in his speech, which perhaps best conveys the fatigue of the moment. gradually it means that the degree of goodwill of the member states is not identical, gradually it means that the good things that are written in the council's final document must be completed and implemented. how do we go from "gradually" to "quickly"? how do we go from "gradually" to "quickly and smoothly"? i think we should turn to the president of the commission, because the political leadership of this moment, the political leadership of this europe which is trying to put initiatives into practice, must be, in our institutional architecture, the president of the commission, the commission which must make proposals, which must complete this process, which must make us capable of innovation.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement reached last week is moving in the right direction. initiatives by individual states cannot be effective without coordinated action at eu level. we need european economic governance, strong financial supervisors, shared rules and initiatives to boost growth and the economy. however, two points should be stressed. parliament is a co-decision-maker and has tasks and responsibilities which cannot be ignored. it is therefore essential that decisions are not taken at intergovernmental level alone. in the recent crisis, not all institutions have had to resort to state intervention. there were institutions which did not pursue speculative finance and, in the event of problems, solved them by resorting to internal liquidity. therefore, it is appropriate to distinguish and ensure that ex ante crisis mechanisms are financed by those institutions which, by their structure, the assets they hold and the reserves they hold, are likely to trigger future crises. finally, in order not to lose global competitiveness, this type of measure must be coordinated at the g20 level and it must be avoided that europe places on its enterprises a burden that asian or american enterprises do not have.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as the honourable member has pointed out, it is not a question of adding or removing items from the agenda, but simply of reversing the position between the various items to be discussed, so i think that this proposal can easily be accepted.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of passenger rights is very topical, as is shown by the fact that the european commission has recently launched a campaign to inform citizens better of the rights they enjoy when using different means of transport. i think this is an important initiative and i also think that it is up to parliament to make its contribution by approving the texts which have an improving effect on passenger travel conditions. i would like to say that the commission has not been able to reach a satisfactory agreement on the proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas. the report i have had the honour of drawing up is a very delicate one, since it requires a balanced solution, one which, in providing for rights for passengers, avoids penalising the undertakings involved in the public road transport sector. in this sector, almost all the enterprises are small and mediumsized. the work i have done in these months of negotiations has therefore had two main objectives: first, it does not affect smes, small and medium-sized industries. secondly, to protect passengers, especially disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility, by improving efficiency and seeking greater responsibility. the text adopted at first reading by the european parliament was a very courageous text, and it was the albertini text. the main changes made by the council were as follows: the scope, liability, rights of disabled persons or persons with reduced mobility, reimbursement and compensation in case of delays and cancellations and other minor matters. some of the amendments introduced by the council were and are acceptable, and this was recognised during the negotiations. unfortunately, however, we did not find the same attitude on the part of the council in the final negotiations on a number of important points, namely: the scope of application, where, in the face of parliament's willingness to consider excluding regional transport - even though we had proposed excluding regional transport if integrated with urban and suburban transport - there was no opening by the council on the articles for which the exemption was then allowed; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of social security. assistance to disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility; the right to free hotel accommodation in the event of a break in the journey or, at least, and more realistically, free transport to the hotel and its location was sufficient for us. the rights of passengers in the event of delay, in particular at the time of departure; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the introduction of a new system of national transport services, the introduction of a new system of national transport services, the introduction of a new system of national transport services, the introduction of a new system of national transport services, the introduction of a new system of national transport services, the introduction of a new system of national transport services, the introduction of a new system of national transport services, the introduction of a new system of national transport services, the introduction of a new system of national transport services, the introduction of a new system of national transport services, the introduction of a new system of national transport services, the introduction of a new system of national transport services, the introduction of a new system of national transport services, the introduction of a new system of national transport services, the introduction of a new system of national transport services, the introduction of a new system of national transport services, the introduction of a new system of national transport services, and the introduction of a new system of national transport services. the negotiations of recent months have been conducted with seriousness and willingness on both sides, also thanks to the contribution of the european commission. in recent weeks, however, positions have hardened. we have sought compromise on all the most sensitive issues, aware of the potentially devastating effects on the companies operating in this sector, to which it would not be fair to apply other overly burdensome obligations. on the other hand, as i said, the other objective was the protection of passengers, particularly the most vulnerable categories, for whom full and guaranteed access to public transport services is an indispensable instrument of social integration. i was saying that the downside is no longer acceptable: the ageing of the european population is a phenomenon which will have important consequences and it would be wrong not to take this into account when determining how to provide such an important service. how dare we consider it excessive to require that travel information be made available on the internet in 2020? i thank the members who have supported me in the negotiations and i ask this house to vote on the text i am proposing so that, in the conciliation process, we can reach a result which is in line with the two objectives i have mentioned and which i reiterate.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal on the rights of passengers travelling by bus is intended to improve and protect passengers, particularly disabled people and those with reduced mobility. this is the first regulation on bus passenger rights and should guarantee passengers, as is the case in the rail and air sectors. the second reading position is intended to establish a set of rights for passengers who decide to travel by bus. i agree with the rapporteur, mr cancian, who i thank for the excellent work he has done, and i think that the scope of the regulation should be changed, excluding regional services when they are integrated with urban and suburban services. it would be right and proper to guarantee the rights of passengers in the event of accidents, cancellations or delays in departure, as parliament had already decided at first reading. equally important is the issue of passenger rights information: it would be useful to provide passengers with information on coincidences with other modes of transport, and this would also ensure dialogue between passenger transport services by bus and those by rail. as regards the disabled and persons with reduced mobility, maximum protection must be guaranteed, and i would propose a 24-hour time limit instead of 48 hours for requesting assistance and greater guarantees for compensation and replacement of the tools which guarantee the mobility of persons with reduced mobility in the event of loss or damage. in addition, taking into account the needs of passengers with reduced mobility, any architectural barriers should be removed and existing infrastructure should be improved to make it accessible. the aim of this regulation is to improve the competitiveness of the bus sector, to promote intermodality and, above all, to improve the travel conditions of passengers.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i must express my gratitude for the involvement of the european parliament and for the extensive work undertaken. we are moving in the same direction. as regards the maritime rights of passengers travelling by sea and inland waterways, the conclusions are positive. it is essential to accomplish the objective of establishing a basic set of rights for passengers on all modes of transport. this has been underlined here many times and we cannot leave out bus and coach passengers. i must just underline one thing, because one element which can be tackled from different angles is economic reasons: economic arguments and passenger rights. we see it in aviation as well. we are all in favour of competitiveness; we are all in favour of economic success; we are all in favour of low costs and efficiency but, at the same time, all service providers in transport must also offer high-quality services. for me, high-quality services mean, above all, taking care of punctuality and timetable information. we must move in this direction and no one – big companies, small companies – can have any derogation from these rules. you must provide punctuality and you must serve your clients with high responsibility in order to provide high quality. then we can also move ahead with all the other issues. thank you for this discussion. in the conciliation process for the bus and coach passengers directive we will try to find compromises which work towards finding such a solution. i hope we will have good cooperation with the rapporteurs during the process for the next directives.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have listened to all the speeches, and i must only say that we started from a first reading by mr albertini with a courageous text, and we reached a result on a text which was very much in line with the will of the council, respecting the will of part of the council in the tran committee by an almost unanimous vote. there is a promise by the commissioner, repeated on several occasions, to have a single unifying text. i hope that the belgian presidency, which has just taken office, will include this text in its agenda, thus completing the framework of regulations for passengers in all modes of transport, with a view to considering the possibility of providing for common and transversal measures for all modes of transport. we absolutely need it!
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday 6 july 2010). written statements (rule 149)
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, disabled people must be able to travel and enjoy the rights of free movement, freedom of choice and non-discrimination, just like all other citizens. access to transport on an equal basis with other users is an essential element in being able to live independently and with dignity in one's daily life. we must fight to ensure that the rights to accessibility and personal mobility, enshrined in articles 9 and 20 of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, are translated into concrete actions, finally shaping a new and effective european disability strategy for the next decade. i strongly supported this report, with the aim of ensuring that the rights of passengers on buses with reduced mobility are effectively protected: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. we cannot accept that in our cities and countries some citizens are discriminated against because of their disabilities. it is for this reason that the european parliament must take a leading position by remedying once and for all the lack of homogeneity which still exists in this respect in the legislation of the member states.
the next item is the recommendation for second reading, by the committee on transport and tourism, on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the framework for the deployment of intelligent transport systems in the field of road transport and for interfaces with other modes of transport (06103/4/2010 – c7-0119/2010 – 2008/0263(cod)) (rapporteur: anne e. jensen) (a7-0211/2010).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, better management of freight transport and greater road safety are two fundamental aspects of the creation of an intelligent transport system. the aim is to create a coordinated and integrated system, ensuring continuity in services, traffic management and freight transport along the corridors. the key point remains the financial impact of this innovative system which consists mainly of traffic communication interfaces and which could be solved by standardizing an integrated information system. efficiency, efficiency, continuity and interoperability are the principles on which the future actions of the european states must be based. a proper assessment of the spatial characteristics and traffic conditions and the interconnection between the various transport systems will therefore be necessary for the system to be implemented effectively. then there is a serious assessment of how the system reacts at critical moments: it is hoped that the committee set up by the directive will be able to consult with local authorities so that the system can be designed to ensure a rapid and efficient response in the event of transport problems.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is very useful to define these community specifications for the coordinated development of individual its applications to transport networks and aircraft, but i would like to stress two facts concerning safety: the first is to try to put a lot of emphasis on safe parking for motorists and secondly when we talk about safety and the driver gets a lot of information and is stormed by everything and more i think we have to be very careful; because he's being urged to do everything but drive. so this is a very important issue today, and i bring this to the attention of mr jensen because i think that on the one hand there is this will, and on the other hand we must be very careful to ensure that people also think about driving.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, millions of europeans are preparing to leave for a well-deserved summer holiday, but unfortunately, as every year, they will have to prepare for cancelled flights, lost luggage, traffic jams on the motorways, perhaps even in the hot sun, and emergency situations to which we are unfortunately accustomed. last week i tabled a question to this effect, calling for the european commission to make a real commitment to this problem. the launch of an information campaign on travellers' rights is certainly a useful tool, but it is not sufficient to prevent such emergencies from happening again. all too often, travellers' rights are violated and months, sometimes even years, must pass before they receive the compensation they are entitled to. it is certainly important to provide information and to make people aware of their rights, but it is much more important to ensure that they are respected throughout europe, by implementing concrete measures, especially in the light of incidents that are now known and that must be prevented.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday 6 july 2010). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by dirk sterckx, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on reporting formalities for ships arriving in and/or departing from ports of the member states of the community and repealing directive 2002/6/ec (com(2009)0011 – c6-0030/2009 – 2009/0005(cod)) (a7-0064/2010).
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr sterckx, for his excellent work on this report on extending freedom of movement in the maritime sector for shipping within the european union. i agree with the rapporteur on the purpose of this directive, which is to exempt all maritime transport of goods within the european union from unnecessary administrative formalities. in order to have a european maritime area without frontiers, it is not only important that the various competent authorities cooperate satisfactorily, but also that the various simplification systems be applied at the same time. this is necessary to ensure the smooth functioning of the entire european maritime area without frontiers, to make the transport of goods by sea more attractive and to make optimal use of it. the harmonization of administrative procedures between member states will allow for more fluid shipping between the various ports of the european union and will revive the sea freight traffic, which currently represents less than 10% of the total. to this day, navigation is still hampered by the administrative formalities that are imposed on it. the electronic systems should therefore be put into operation as soon as possible, as they would allow for a faster system of data exchange. interoperability is also important for real administrative simplification, since the initiation of information by e-mail is not entirely efficient and is useless if the information systems are not technically interoperable. as regards language, i believe that the use of a common language would certainly benefit european shipping. this would make the communication quicker, causing less confusion and administrative delays.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, thank you all very much for your remarks and your unanimous support for this proposal. i am very happy about this proposal. it is an important step forward, but we will have a much bigger step ahead of us in this task of establishing a single maritime area for european shipping, namely customs barriers. there we will see a lot more difficulties. now we are talking about formalities, and this is very important, more important than just an administrative question, but i also ask your support when we come to do the same with customs formalities, which are much more complicated and controversial.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday 6 july).
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr grosch, and the whole committee on transport and tourism for a high-quality report. it is a very constructive and very balanced document. its content can be widely shared. i would like to emphasise a particular point that the report and the entire work of this committee point to. transport is a sector that is crucial in many respects: for competitiveness, for the environment and for social and territorial cohesion. it is a policy area that deserves all our efforts and attention. i am happy that we have managed to give transport an important role in the commission’s eu 2020 strategy. i am also glad to see that the approach proposed by the commission in the communication ‘a sustainable future for transport’ is to a large extent shared by parliament. the calls for efficient comodality and for the completion of the single market are fully in line with our intention to achieve a single transport area in which modes are seamlessly integrated and obstacles to open and efficient markets are removed. i believe that efforts to provide better mobility solutions to citizens and businesses can go hand in hand with a transport system that emits less co2 and that would help our transport industry to remain in the lead, both on logistics and on transport equipment. the way to do this is by looking at transport as an integrated system in which infrastructure, transport information technologies and regulatory arrangements work together effectively. regarding infrastructure, we intend to focus on a multimodal core network that acts as the backbone of a pan-european transport system. on the intelligent transport systems, we share the view that traffic management, as well as ticketing tools, should gradually become multimodal. as for regulatory arrangements, i agree we have to complete the opening of transport markets, introduce smarter pricing that reflects all costs, including the externalities, and eliminate all barriers in terms of interoperability, technical standards, multiple paper documents etc. i am also particularly concerned about the citizens’ perspective. we need to provide increased security and uniform passenger rights which will stimulate the use of collective transport. we also need to be ambitious in terms of safety on our roads. finally, we acknowledge that innovative thinking is needed to preserve personal mobility, while reducing co2 emissions. the commission is supporting the development of new vehicle types by funding research and establishing standards. but national and local authorities also have great responsibilities, for instance in ensuring that land use planning minimises congestion and unnecessary travel. in a context of global economic downturn, the financing of transport infrastructure is a particularly sensitive aspect. we are looking at various approaches. there may perhaps be a single transport fund but the commission will certainly insist on bringing together several eu funding instruments into a coherent funding framework. in thanking mr grosch again for his report, i can only promise that it will be duly taken into account in the preparation of our white paper on the future of sustainable transport.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we should immediately highlight the excellent work done by mr grosch on a text which was unanimously approved in committee. i think this text is important, an important step for our future planning: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of transport services. this is obviously a very broad subject and as rapporteur for an opinion within the itre committee i had the opportunity to contribute to the drafting of this text. sustainability is an environmental, economic, social and generational concept: i believe that this text has the merit of taking all these aspects into account, indicating a series of priorities which will have to be implemented in order to develop the transport sector, the upgrading and widespread use of intelligent transport systems, which means a better relationship between the vehicle, the infrastructure and the driver. but as we follow the programming through what grosch has said before, we must also take into account, commissioner, that we are at a very critical moment and we must, as the european union, make a major push towards the realisation of these structures, or parts of them. so i ask you, since you have mentioned it today, to insist, even in the times, on the rationalization of all possible resources, to try to put them on a container that has the purpose of finally starting the construction of some important structures that have been planned for a long time and are now being reviewed for europe 2020 but i think we have to give some important sign in the country. thanks again to our coordinator and colleague grosch.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the 2020 targets for a sustainable future for urban transport and freight transport are ambitious: reduce the number of deaths and serious injuries in road traffic accidents by 40% between 2010 and 2020; to double the number of passengers in buses and rail vehicles in road transport by 2020; to reduce co2 emissions in road transport through appropriate innovation and by avoiding empty travel; to promote rail transport; to reduce the electricity consumption of railway vehicles; reducing environmental pollution in the field of aviation; to provide financial incentives for the creation of multimodal connections inland navigation platforms by increasing their number, also by 2020. the first step is still to integrate transport modes more closely, and the european union must take decisive action when problems arise in connection with the construction of major railway corridors or lines of communication.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i join in the chorus of praise for the rapporteur, mr grosch, who has certainly done a good job and i share much of the considerations which my colleagues have already made on the subject of convenience as a strategic element and on the subject of interoperability. three quick highlights, please. the first on the subject of safety: we need to continue to invest heavily in safety, we certainly need to do so by developing its, as we have already said in the previous debate, and we need to do so by further developing rtms technology in rail transport. we must do this, again with regard to rail transport, by having the courage to invest the railway agency with greater competence in safety matters, to avoid a repetition of the tragedies we unfortunately experienced a few months ago. on the subject of financing, i am in favour of the creation of a transport fund. i believe that in the financial perspective for 2013 we must fight for these policies to be adequately financed and for the tens to be able to develop further, and i believe that in this sense it is crucial that they develop with the mediterranean at their centre, the mediterranean as a place of connection to the new markets in the east of the world. finally, the last issue i would like to touch on is urban mobility. i very much appreciate the call in the report, i think that in this respect we must encourage the use of good practices and the coordination of good practices, we must work towards better management of goods logistics in cities, towards more sustainable urban mobility, and i think that this report is a good starting point for continuing the good work.
in writing. the report on the future of transport aims to support and develop an efficient and sustainable transport system in europe. to achieve this, the internal market in transport needs to be completed and all obstacles resulting from the late or non-transposition of eu legislation in the member states removed. there is also a need for a transport fund to guarantee the financing of transeuropean network projects and support systems for the network. as for the ten-t projects, they are a priority for transport policy, but the problem of the lack of infrastructure, as well as the geographical and historical obstacles of cross-border routes, should be eliminated. finally, road safety is one of the key issues on which transport policy must be based in the future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i greet commissioner šefčovič and wish to point out that the council representative is not present for this debate. the european union - you know, mr president - has over the years strengthened the concept of european citizenship as the basis of its political legitimacy and, above all, to cultivate its ambition for democratic representation. the european union, like all international bodies, cannot take action that goes beyond the law of treaties, nor can it interpret its powers broadly. it is a special character, however, which derives precisely from the european dream of its founding fathers, who attributed to it a popular character. in particular, the last treaty, the treaty of lisbon, which has recently entered into force, places the building blocks of the europe of the peoples' institution within the political framework of the european institutions, in the name of the objective of greater participation by citizens. the committee on petitions of the european parliament is the only instrument for direct and active citizen participation in the life of the european institutions, and it is sufficient to consider that it sets its agenda in relation to the requests of the citizens and not to the indications of the executive committee. parliament and the commission should take greater account of its work and its results. the figures in the 2009 report, for which i applaud my colleague iturgaiz angulo, show a very impressive rate of increase in participation, despite the reluctance that the european commission has certainly shown in the past to cooperate with the committee on petitions. in the last year we have improved internal procedures, we have initiated a review of the method of examining admissible petitions and we have proposed, as all colleagues have said, a system of modernising the web portal to make the system more usable for citizens. it was a fruitful year... (the president interrupts the speaker) i would like to conclude with a wish for the coming year: i hope that we will have a more fruitful cooperation with the commission and i therefore trust in the words of commissioner šefčovič and his three points, which i hope will be put into practice, and i also hope that this commission can play a specific role in the procedure under discussion for the popular legislative initiative.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the right to petition is one of the main instruments available to european citizens to participate actively in the political life of the european union. in my capacity as a member of the european parliament, i have always tried to serve the people and to give them the central place in the decisions of the european parliament. i have therefore repeatedly asked to know what petitions were submitted... i have repeatedly asked the committee responsible for the petitions that have been submitted and for their progress. unfortunately, although rule 5 (3) of parliament's rules of procedure provides that members have the right to inspect all documents held by parliament or a committee, i have found that the internal database e-petition is accessible only to members of the committee responsible. i contacted the reference unit, but unfortunately i received no response. i think that this discrimination must be immediately corrected, since it undermines the importance of citizens' petitions and does not value the work of the committee itself. we have a short time, mr president, so in one minute, one of us is trying to say everything.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as vice-chairman of the disability intergroup, i would like to take this opportunity to speak briefly about the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and its ratification. this convention is both an important milestone and a starting point for the world's civil growth, but the ratification by the european union, decided last november by the council, has not yet been confirmed at the united nations because some member states are delaying the adoption of the code of conduct between the union's institutions. i hope that this house will give an impulse to remove these obstacles and that the democratic institutions of the remaining european countries will ratify the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and, with a view to its practical implementation, the optional protocol. if the european union is to be a leading force on the international scene, we must make full enjoyment of the rights of persons with disabilities a top priority at national and european level.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the last few days the belgian police have raided the archdiocese of malines, where a meeting of catholic bishops was taking place, and seized their telephones, computers and confidential documents. the bishops were held for nine hours without prior judicial notice. among the seized documents are confidential documents, deposited by citizens who had expressly asked to remain anonymous. the tombs of two cardinals buried in the adjacent cathedral were desecrated and destroyed with pneumatic hammers. since the treaty of lisbon, signed by his majesty the king of the belgians, is inspired by the cultural, religious and humanist heritage of europe, from which the universal values of the inalienable rights of the person, freedom, democracy, equality and the rule of law have developed, i ask the president of parliament to speak to the high representative for foreign affairs, baroness ashton, to report on the events and how he intends to remedy the diplomatic incident caused by the unlawful behaviour of a member state of the european union towards the vatican city state.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mrs turunen for her work. as all the statistics mercilessly remind us, in the countries of the union, without exception, those who were most affected by the crisis were those who had temporary jobs, women and immigrants. the majority of people in temporary work are young, which is why we have a very high percentage of young people who are unable to find work, something we have not seen for a very long time. the slow growth that many anticipate in two years' time, the greater retention of the elderly in the work force for the reasons of reform of the social security systems that everyone knows, will make this problem likely to increase in the coming years. for this reason the work that has been done is very important and i believe it is essential that each member state considers the issue of youth unemployment as a specific issue around which to devise policies of intervention.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is essential to help and guide young people into the world of work. it is not enough for schools to train the workers of the future, but apprenticeships in firms must be encouraged. tackling unemployment, especially among young people, is one of the european union's most important challenges. that is why we must be careful not to ask too much, for example in the fight against climate change, of companies, otherwise, if they decide to close, there is no future for our workers. we are thinking rather of fighting against imports of cheap goods from third countries which do not respect our rules and the rights of workers, especially minors.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mrs gruny not only for the excellent work she has done but also for the great sensitivity she has shown in taking account of the views of other political cultures. it is not always the case - and when it is, it is right to stress this - and some of the statements in the document which have been repeated here are very important, such as that indefinite work should be regarded as normal work and that in any case all those who are - for reasons of choice or because they are forced to manage a fixed-term employment relationship - should be able to count on equal rights with respect to others, because everything must be geared towards normalisation without precariousness. but it is also very important what you have said about social dialogue: the recognition of the value of representation, both of the enterprises and of the workers, is very important. collective representation, like collective bargaining, is an element of civility in relations and cohesion in relations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall now turn to the speech made by the previous speaker. he 's absolutely right . the fact that wages are too low is a real impediment to the circulation of money. poverty means (increasing) the decrease in the circulation of money and thus increasing difficulties. atypical forms of work are a growing trend which, if used efficiently, can be a useful tool for overcoming the current economic and social crisis. however, in order to achieve this objective, atypical contracts must satisfy certain conditions: flexibility must be combined with security in order to avoid situations where low-skilled workers occupy low-skilled positions for low wages. the issue of flexicurity is linked to that of staff training during working life, which is considered a guarantee of occupational integration and social integration. better protection of atypical forms of work is important to reduce undeclared work and ensure better treatment of women and young people.
in writing. at a time like the present, given the figures of the crisis and the worrying rates of youth unemployment in europe, the relationship between young people and the labour market is an important and essential issue, given the urgency with which citizens and especially our young people are waiting for a concrete response. the way out of the unemployment tunnel at historic lows is through the consolidation of the link between enterprises and training, especially to facilitate the transfer of skills and know-how. before the knowledge society revolution, most knowledge and information was acquired in school. the data now seem to confirm that only part of the knowledge is acquired during the school period, while the role played by multimedia and field training is crucial. i believe that the link with the local area can be a unique training ground for passing on, if we consider smes and local crafts as a potential pool for internships and apprenticeships, quality know-how for export.
in writing. the numerous resolutions and decisions of the eu parliament and council on the world of work over the past three years have identified actions for objectives such as increasing employment, greater flexibility and security, combating undeclared work, strengthening social dialogue. the legislative effort has not, however, been translated into achieving the lisbon objectives and the forms of atypical work, designed to facilitate entry into the labour market by mitigating its rigidities, have mostly become instruments for exploiting social weaknesses. the most vulnerable - women, young people, the elderly, people with low educational attainment, from less developed areas - have experienced precarious rather than flexible working conditions. the invitation to the commission comes at a delicate time for the global economy, which could prove even more damaging for the employment system. strong action at european level is essential to promote the policy of social cohesion, a pillar of a united europe, to break down gender barriers and to overcome geographical imbalances. increased eu investment in training, simplification and security must be matched by increased investment by member states. work must be valued again.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report is undoubtedly a good one, and i commend the rapporteur on that. i was very impressed by one of the first sentences of the explanatory statement, which i should like to quote: "waste management policy must be about transforming the eu into a recycling society". i find contradictions in this, for example, that differentiation should be compulsory if it is the best option from an environmental and economic point of view, or that state investments should not be called into question if they are contrary to european directives. in this spirit, as has already happened with the framework directive on waste, the european union will provide little more than a suggestion, and we forget that we have a duty to provide ambitious and decisive answers to the problem of waste, precisely because of the principle of subsidiarity behind which the european institutions too often hide. let us set differentiated targets and enforce their achievement, let us take best practice, such as the 'zero waste' policies already implemented in some parts of the usa and make them binding on all member states!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a great spain indeed this year, president zapatero, but not his... the greater spain is the spain of del bosque, casillas and villa, not that of a presidency of the union which has seemed for too long to be completely alien and uninterested in the fate of a continent in crisis. however, six months ago, on the day when she presented her programme, despite the ideological differences between us, i perceived some positive signs in her words, especially with regard to equal human rights. unfortunately, the trust we had placed in the spanish presidency was not repaid. i am simply expressing what many people, including those closest to you politically, think, namely that, just as in the case of the barcelona process, you have relied on an empty nominalism, whereby announcing results is tantamount to having achieved them. the reason for this position is the radicalism of a policy which has not lost its strong ideological imprint, even in a period of serious crisis. in these six months, pragmatism and the will to draw fully on the values on which the european union is founded were needed, but you preferred to dust off utopias that no longer have any connection with reality in many speeches and to resign yourself to a dull semester despite the strong support you received from parliament in relation, for example, to the dossier of the external action service. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as of 1 february 2010 the previous swift agreement with the usa was no longer in force, and now there is a new agreement! it is not enough to compare the old assumption of discipline with the one defined in recent days to fully appreciate the considerable improvements made thanks to the contribution of the european parliament, but thanks to the negotiations of the commission and the spanish presidency. my public law professor used to say that the best deal is the one that needs to be perfected. we must therefore be content with a good agreement, which defines a common will and strategy against terrorism, but now we must involve third countries, which are essential in this process of countering terrorism. finally, i believe that this agreement strikes the right balance between the right to privacy and the right to security.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw the attention of the european union to the plight of 250 eritreans who are currently sending out sms alerts because they are being held in the sahara desert by the libyan authorities. they are dying, they need help and i ask the european union to take care of them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have supported this resolution. i think it is very important that the initiative taken by the baltic countries should be credited with finally introducing the concept of the macro-region into our system. i think that this initiative is worthwhile, both politically and strategically, because of the important elements of merit it incorporates into the operational strategy of this action and above all i think that it is important that we give ourselves the perspective of being able to imagine the creation of other macro-areas with this initiative, which will then use this experience as a pilot to give a further impetus, possibly, to cohesion policy. i would ask the commission to pay more attention to this initiative in terms of the provision of financial resources, because i fully share the 'no' we have expressed at all levels on the use of new resources, additional resources, but i am equally convinced that without resources these large projects, projects for the macro-regions, cannot go ahead, so it is important to regulate the provision of resources.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive on the formalities for declaring ships arriving in or departing from ports of the member states of the community because i believe that the creation of a free maritime transport area can make coastal traffic more efficient. the transport of goods by sea is subject to very complex administrative procedures. this situation has been compounded by the problem of the lack of harmonisation of sectoral rules, due to the different implementation of the 2002 directive in the different member states. a precise and detailed directive is therefore needed to minimise the possibility of divergent interpretations. the main aim of the new legislation is to simplify administrative procedures, taking into account modern information technology. to this end, i hope for a good level of cooperation between the various competent authorities involved.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the transport sector is one of those areas whose implications involve a multiplicity of crucial and important issues for the european union: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. i therefore believe that it is the european union's duty to provide a transport strategy that ensures efficiency and sustainability, as well as an appropriate financial framework to respond to the coming challenges in a timely manner. i therefore give my full support to mr grosch's report, which i commend for the excellent work it has done.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon has reaffirmed the role of the right to petition as a key element of european citizenship. it is undoubtedly a tool which gives citizens the opportunity to bring to parliament all their concerns about the impact of the various policies and legislation of the european union on their daily lives. this year, too, statistics show a growing demand for assistance on issues such as the environment, fundamental rights, justice, the single market and the development of european policies. as has already been argued in previous reports, we cannot but hope that the institutions will once again improve their communication on the various complaint mechanisms available to citizens at european level, through the establishment of a 'single portal' which can provide them with the necessary guidelines for finding solutions to the likely violation of their rights. we agree with the rapporteur that a more interactive website could be developed to enable citizens to obtain the information they need before deciding which institution to contact directly and which mechanism to use.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the economic crisis has hit young europeans particularly hard, killing their professional aspirations and confining them to an uncertain limbo. 20% of young people under 25 are unemployed, an army of five and a half million people with no certainty about the future. fortunately, the economic and demographic outlook for the next ten years is for 80 million new jobs to be created across europe, but most of these will require a high profile. the challenge is to focus on the younger generations, and it is the only safe investment for the present and future of the european union. no more apprenticeships and traineeships that are more like exploitation than a training moment! i hope, therefore, that from now on, and also thanks to the document voted on today, any initiative aimed at boosting employment will be focused, without fail, on young people and their needs.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the most flexible forms of work have often resulted in atypical contracts which are incapable of ensuring the social protection of workers. the fight against these new forms of precariat must start with this parliament, which must be able to guarantee greater flexibility and security for all workers. the adoption of this resolution, mr president, is the basis for a new level of occupational safety. increasing the chance of finding a job with good prospects for development must be the primary objective if the european economy is to recover ever more rapidly. i therefore hope that all the member states will invest more resources in developing more and more specific and better-quality vocational training. yes to the europe of knowledge and work and no to the europe of precariousness and social insecurity!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's vote on the fernandes report, which i have shadowed for the s&d group, is a clear signal from this parliament that it is calling on the european commission to draw up a specific directive on biodegradable organic waste and in particular to introduce a mandatory separate collection system. biodegradable organic waste, if well managed, can become a resource for the european union, for the production of biogas, a renewable energy that can be turned into biomethane, or used to generate basic electricity. i was concerned about the recent communication from the european commission, which was sceptical about the idea of presenting a specific legislative proposal. a letter with reasons was sent to commissioner potočnik and other colleagues in this connection. i hope that the commission will reflect on this and will soon propose its own text.
in writing. - i very much welcome a technical measure to facilitate the organization of international exhibitions. only the creation of an efficient and, above all, functioning knowledge network, which links excellence and innovation, will allow the effective achievement of the purpose of the exhibitions indicated in the paris convention, that is not only political promotion, but also economic and social cohesion through science.
in writing. the function of the paris convention on international exhibitions is to regulate the frequency and quality of the exhibitions themselves. the convention applies to all international exhibitions lasting from three weeks to three months which are not essentially commercial in nature. as the convention covers matters falling within the scope of the customs legislation of the european union, a member state wishing to accede to it must first seek authorisation from the union. the european union cannot accede to the convention as only sovereign states can be parties to it; i do, however, share the aim of the council decision, which is to enable the member states concerned which have not yet acceded to the convention to do so, while respecting the exclusive competences of the european union.
in writing. - we vote in favour of the proposal for a report as it aims to facilitate the exhibition of innovations and to contribute to public education. italy is particularly interested in this text in view of the expo 2015 to be held in milan.
in writing. − on 19 february 2010, the commission published a proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the iczm protocol on integrated coastal zone management, or the protocol to the convention on the protection of the marine environment and the coastal region of the mediterranean, also known as the 'barcelona convention'. like all eu member states bordering the mediterranean, the european union is a contracting party to the convention and as such promotes integrated coastal zone management, with particular regard to areas of ecological and landscape interest. the iczm protocol has additional objectives, including the sustainable use of natural resources and the preservation of coastal ecosystems, and also includes provisions on economic activities related to tourism, fisheries and aquaculture. the committee on the environment, public health and food safety is pressing for parliament to approve the conclusion of the iczm protocol. i fully support the commission's proposal that the council should conclude the protocol on behalf of the eu as soon as possible.
in writing. − favourable position as the protocol contains the general objectives and principles, which include the sustainable use of natural resources and the conservation of coastal ecosystems, and specific provisions concerning economic activities, including construction, tourism, fisheries, aquaculture and maritime activities.
in writing. − positive position as it enhances crossborder cooperation in the fight against terrorism and crime between the eu, iceland and norway.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr claeys' report because i share his desire to conclude, as quickly as possible, the agreement between the european union, the swiss confederation and the principality of liechtenstein on the latter's participation in the activities of the frontex agency. the concrete participation of the above mentioned countries in the control and surveillance of the eu's external borders would in fact represent an additional added value for frontex, whose important work, more than five years after its establishment, is beginning to bear fruit in terms of combating illegal immigration and assisting member states.
in writing. − by voting on this report, parliament is called upon to express its opinion on the implementation of the activities of the frontex agency. the extension of the agency's activities to switzerland and liechtenstein is of practical importance, but above all symbolic and programmatic: europe must give all the tools and support it can to frontex, and must work to ensure that the agency's action is as territorial and qualitatively effective as possible. immigration and border control is one of the challenges that has been most underestimated by the european union, which has too often tried to escape the idea that border security and the prevention of uncontrolled immigration are tasks that europe must tackle globally. i therefore welcome any step that brings the continent closer to the creation of a uniform area of control of migration and borders. the immigration emergency must be dealt with appropriately by the community bodies: it is no longer possible to abandon the member states in the face of a challenge such as that posed by mass immigration, which in fact directly or indirectly affects the whole continent. we must therefore make every effort to strengthen frontex.
in writing. - president, i voted in favour of this proposal for a council decision because i believe that the frontex agency, which has been operating since 2005, has undoubtedly already proved to be an important instrument of the common european strategy against illegal immigration, but i think that it should be further developed in this respect. the aim is to implement the provision in its rules of procedure providing for the participation in its activities of all those third countries which are associated with the implementation, application and development of the schengen acquis. this is to develop its assistance tasks in the training of the national border guard corps and in risk assessment. while we know that the swiss confederation has already been part of the schengen area since 1 march 2008, while the principality of liechtenstein is still awaiting the implementation of a specific protocol, we welcome the conclusion of this convention, as we believe that it will enable the two countries to contribute to ensuring greater coordination between the relevant services of the administrations of the participating states. we therefore hope that the member states will endeavour to complete as soon as possible the ratification procedures necessary to associate the swiss confederation and the principality of liechtenstein with frontex activities.
in writing. the proposal for a council decision aims at the signing and conclusion of an agreement between the european community, on the one hand, and the swiss confederation and the principality of liechtenstein, on the other, laying down the arrangements for the participation of these states in the frontex agency. the agency is conceived as a key instrument in the common strategy against illegal immigration. the agency also assists member states in training their national border guard corps and provides them with technical assistance and support in organising joint return operations or border surveillance. the agreement between the european community and switzerland and liechtenstein also defines certain matters such as the limited voting rights of their representatives on the agency's management board, their financial contribution to the agency's budget and the confidentiality of data. i can only welcome the conclusion of this convention, which allows the two countries to help ensure greater coordination between the competent services of the administrations of the participating states in the field of external border control and surveillance. i therefore hope that the member states will endeavour to complete as soon as possible the ratification procedures necessary to associate switzerland and liechtenstein with frontex.
in writing. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union's action plan for the protection of the environment and the promotion of the environment.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that the strengthening of eurostat is a necessary step to avoid both other cases like the one in greece and the presentation of incorrect statistics. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the statistical information to be published in the official journal of the european communities.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, support for the karas report is a matter of responsibility, after the events in greece. the statistical fraud and the quantitative misunderstandings which have been the subject of the commission and greece require not only a decisive and consistent strengthening of eurostat and its power of control over the data produced by the member states, but also the balancing of this cycle with the protection of minimum guarantees of the independence of the national statistical institutes. given the fundamental role of statistical data for good and sound european governance, i therefore join the rapporteur, mr karas, in strongly calling on the commission to take decisive and decisive action in this area.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the european union's strategy for the baltic sea region and the role of the macro-regions in the future cohesion policy. the baltic sea strategy must be a stepping stone, a pilot project for future macro-regional strategies, and i agree with the rapporteur, mr olejniczak. in the evolution of the european union, the new macro-regional approach must aim to create the conditions for securing jobs for future generations, to promote territorial cohesion and to implement environmental protection measures, through territorial innovation and sustainable development; improving the mobility and accessibility of territories and promoting polycentric development. common interests and objectives which will empower and balance the territories which today make up the european union, and which will be an attractive factor for the accession of new states, for the strengthening of the european institution and for its increasing empowerment towards the neighbouring countries. i share the central role of the member states, who are thus being propelled towards a new level of governance which will enable them to recover the peripheral and most disadvantaged regions. i conclude by stressing the importance of the commission's role and by making it responsible for the rapid implementation of the strategy for the baltic region and the emergence of the other macro-regions.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am in favour of this report because i recognize the crucial importance of regional policy in dealing with the consequences of the long economic and financial crisis we are experiencing. unfortunately, the so-called objective 2 regions of europe have paid a very high price in terms of unemployment and social exclusion as a result of the crisis, and i therefore find it particularly useful to propose that smes in these regions be actively supported in order to preserve existing jobs and possibly create new ones.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has always shown little interest in the world of smes, committing itself more in words than in deeds to policies aimed at competitiveness and innovation. above all, this europe is far from local institutions and administrative realities that are further from the centre but closer to the citizen. however, the underlying reasons expressed by the rapporteur in his work which we are voting on today, the basic logic he expresses, are acceptable because, in my view, he rightly draws attention to the need for greater use of eu funds in the fight against the crisis and the impoverishment of depressed areas or areas at risk of economic and social decline. it is above all the vast universe of smes that the eu must now turn to for new and more substantial efforts, as the report suggests, if it is to really contribute to the continent's exit from the crisis. our smes, which make up 99% of the european production fabric, need freedom from red tape, but today, given the particular difficult conditions, they also need support to overcome the problems of access to credit and adaptation to an increasingly complex and competitive global market.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of this report because i am convinced that the european parliament's assessments and recommendations on this dossier, which should aim to bring the bus transport sector up to the same quality standards as air and rail transport, should be strongly supported. the council has unfortunately weakened, if not abolished, both the commission's provisions and most of the amendments tabled by the european parliament at first reading.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr cancian's report on behalf of all passengers who must be guaranteed fair compensation in the event of damage to persons or luggage or cancellations and delays on routes operated by carriers. in this direction, carriers should be liable for the loss of or damage to travellers' baggage under conditions similar to those applicable to other modes of transport. particular attention should also be paid to protecting the rights of disabled passengers or those with reduced mobility, who must be able to receive appropriate assistance and benefit from facilities that facilitate them, particularly at the stage of accessing public transport services. to this end, i hope that the member states will make a real effort to improve existing conditions and infrastructure so that disabled people and people with reduced mobility can have a service that is adapted to their needs.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of mr cancian's report, which i consider to be a complete report, and i welcome the attention paid to the needs of disabled passengers and those with reduced mobility, for whom public transport is a fundamental means of integration into society, and to the needs of small and mediumsized enterprises. in most cases, bus transport is carried out by small companies. as with passengers travelling by rail or air, i believe it is necessary to establish a series of rights and guarantees, taking account of the specific features of this type of service. in this respect i am very much in favour of the honourable member's proposal and i fully share his very well balanced approach.
in writing. − while the council proposal excludes regular urban, suburban and regional transport services as well as crossborder services, and also gives member states the possibility to exclude national scheduled services from the application of the regulation for 15 years, the report restores in substance the important provisions of the initial report, such as those on the liability of carriers, which should be equated with other modes of transport, with particular attention to assistance and cash advances in the event of accidents, passengers' rights in the event of cancellations and delays in departure and the rights of disabled persons or persons with reduced mobility. we therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - although the report pays particular attention to the rights of passengers with reduced mobility and strengthens the rules in favour of the passenger, we vote against it because we believe that there are numerical limits which make the rule not fully applicable.
in writing. - today we could have celebrated if we had adopted the two regulations on the rights of passengers on ships and buses together, but we have missed an opportunity. i welcome the adoption of the ship regulations. in particular, the fact that it has provided for new rules for compensation in the event of delays, as well as cancellations, and that it has guaranteed full assistance to disabled passengers are two very positive aspects. on the contrary, despite the excellent work done by parliament, it was not possible to pass the regulation on the rights of bus passengers at second reading. it seems that the council does not want this regulation, which is too narrow in scope, delays its entry into force and offers little protection to the disabled. we do not want to place an undue burden on the thousands of small and mediumsized enterprises in the sector, but a decent standard of protection must be guaranteed. i hope that in conciliation we can reach an acceptable compromise.
in writing. − our vote on this report is in favour as it provides the framework for action for the implementation of intelligent transport systems in the member states with the aim of creating a coordinated and integrated system. particular attention should be paid to privacy by listing key principles to be used for future actions.
in writing. - although the creation of a 'european maritime transport area without frontiers' is of crucial importance for european shipping, extending the internal market to intra-community maritime transport, by removing obstacles and simplifying the administrative procedures to which it is subject, our vote is for abstention because the report raises some sensitive issues such as data protection.
in writing. - the grosch report is a good starting point in the run-up to the european commission's white paper. the guidelines are to develop further convenience and interoperability, to pay particular attention to security (to be ensured in some sectors by strengthening the role of the agencies), to complete the single market, and to invest in research and development of its. but one of the most important challenges ahead, without which the other objectives risk being dead letter, is to ensure adequate funding for the tens, starting from the next financial perspective through the establishment of a dedicated fund. in this context, the mediterranean should be seen as a natural link between the eu and the emerging markets of the east. finally, i share the need to invest more in urban mobility and more modern freight logistics to decongest urban areas and reduce polluting emissions.
in writing. the text adopted by the house is a step forward for europe in a particularly sensitive sector such as transport, the heart of the single market, on which the movement of people and goods depends and which ensures the territorial cohesion necessary for employment and economic development with a cost-effective impact on the environment. we believe that in the transport sector too, more attention must be paid to safety, both for the goods being transported and for passengers and for road traffic in general. the european economy and therefore employment depend on the sustainable future of transport, and the union will therefore have to commit itself to setting urgent targets for the member states in a short time, such as the timetable for the construction of small infrastructures, the lack of which prevents the smooth flow of goods and people, with serious damage to the economy and worsening pollution. so similar timelines throughout the european union for the completion of these works, but also certain timelines for the restoration of roads or railways interrupted by natural or unforeseen events. the conversion of part of the road transport to rail or water transport, which is still being delayed by too many delays, is necessary to avoid the loss of jobs and the consequent impoverishment of part of the population. finally, particular attention must be paid to peripheral or disadvantaged areas which remain so precisely because of the lack of sufficient viable infrastructure.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the grosch report because i believe that the guidelines and the requests contained therein are balanced and aim at a sustainable development of transport, which on the one hand supports a strategic sector for economic growth and for europe itself and on the other takes account of respect for the environment. the transport sector contributes to the development, competitiveness and completion of the internal market of the eu, and also affects the quality of life of citizens. convenience, quality of public services, better planning of long-term infrastructure and technical interoperability investments and support for technological innovation, research, energy efficiency, clean technologies and safety are crucial factors which i hope the commission will take into account in drawing up the next white paper.
in writing. the proposal is the basis for the preparation of the commission's white paper with particular regard to environmental protection. the resolution is in favour of this despite the risks of too fundamentalist positions already expressed by parliament. we must balance the needs of environmental protection with the current economic crisis we are experiencing. we found the strong security call positive.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the annual report of the committee on petitions. the entry into force of the lisbon treaty has laid the foundations for a wider and more responsible participation of citizens in the decision-making process of the european union. the petition is an excellent and fundamental instrument for checking the application of community law by the member states and, in this context, cooperation with the competent national and local authorities and with the commission, with which it is essential to promote a different and more effective level of cooperation, is crucial. the promotion of legislative initiative is essential to narrow the gap between citizens and the european institutions. this mechanism, which is designed to reduce the notorious democratic deficit, must be further increased and strengthened and, above all, brought to the attention of the european citizens. i welcome the initiatives proposed to develop and disseminate new technologies, particularly the internet.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting for this document because i am aware that the consequences of the financial crisis are weighing heavily on the shoulders of young europeans, whose unemployment rate is around 20%, twice the overall unemployment rate at community level, and is unfortunately set to rise further. strategies are therefore needed to promote and facilitate young people's access to the labour market and to strengthen and smooth the transition from school/academic life to the world of work.
in writing. - i can only support the report by mrs turunen, which seeks to promote the access of young people to the labour market by strengthening the status of trainees and apprentices. the youth employment crisis is one of the most worrying issues today and one of the consequences of the economic crisis that requires immediate and concrete action. that is the sense in which my amendments to the text are to be incorporated. my speeches emphasize the importance of linking the world of training with the enterprises of our territory in order to create the necessary skills and, on the other hand, the importance of flexibility, which reconciles the needs of enterprises and young workers.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report on promoting access for young people to the labour market and strengthening the status of trainees and apprentices, because i believe it is essential to promote and support youth employment. unfortunately, we are now in a period of severe financial crisis, which has caused a considerable increase in unemployment, especially among young people. recent statistics show that there are over 5.5 million young people under 25 without a job, or 21.4% of the european youth population, a figure which is twice the rate of unemployment as a whole. in view of this situation, it has become necessary to ask the council and the commission to draw up an employment strategy focusing on the development of policies that can guarantee young europeans targeted access to the world of work, in order to avoid the social and economic costs that youth unemployment entails for our society. the adoption of packages of measures providing a strong incentive for investment in education, research and mobility and facilitating access to financial instruments for young people wishing to pursue entrepreneurial activities is also a priority.
in writing. i would like to congratulate my colleague emilie turunen on her report, which proposes that the council and the commission present a european youth guarantee, offering every young person in the eu the right to be offered a job, an apprenticeship, further training or a job with training after a period of unemployment of up to four months. i call on the commission and the council to draw up, following this report, a 'european quality charter for traineeships' in order to guarantee the educational value of traineeships and to avoid exploitation. it should be borne in mind that some national laws may be considered as discriminatory in terms of income, because they prevent young people from being financially independent. let us try, together with the council and the commission, to guarantee young people a decent income!
in writing. − the measure adopted in the plenary underlines the importance of a rights-based approach to youth and employment, highlighting the qualitative aspect of decent work which must not be compromised by parameters that go beyond basic labour standards such as quality of work, working hours, minimum wage, social security and the safety and health of trainees and workers. it should be remembered that, at a time of economic and employment difficulties, young people need to make it clear that the future of europe cannot be linked only to the strengthening of the service economy, but that manufacturing industry must be defended and research strengthened through community funding which, in the era of globalisation, must also be directed to the protection of intellectual property and the craft sector as a tool for small and micro enterprises to create development and employment. in addition, much remains to be done, and in the short term, to ensure the equality of all qualifications, member states must make a collective effort to achieve a harmonization of contracts that facilitate the entry of young people into the world of work and promote easy access to credit for the purchase or at least the rental of a house in which to live and a place in which to exercise any self-employment.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i share the approach of mr turunen's report: youth unemployment is one of the most pressing problems facing the european union. the risk is that a generation will be condemned to social exclusion and that the economic and social future of the eu will be jeopardised. youth unemployment has high social costs for our societies, resulting in lost opportunities for economic growth, an erosion of the tax base that undermines investment in infrastructure and public services, increased social costs and under-utilisation of investment in education and training. the european union must have common strategies! an integrated and coherent approach is needed, integrating microeconomic and macroeconomic interventions, focusing on labour supply and demand and ensuring both the quantity and quality of employment. by investing economically and politically in new jobs, education and training, stronger social security systems, a more dynamic labour market and decent work, it is possible to transform the eu labour market and redirect current trends towards a better future for young people.
in writing. − it is essential for the europe of the future to guarantee full and secure employment for young people. europe must have the courage to invest in those companies which do not relocate but create jobs, and it must also have the courage to prevent goods from third countries which do not respect workers' rights from being marketed. vocational training is essential. we shall vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - i can only support the report by mrs gruny, on which i have tabled a number of amendments which have been accepted by the committee on employment and social affairs. two guidelines inspired my speech: the first is the importance of the link between the training path and the needs of the labour market. in this sense, it is necessary to re-qualify young people in the perception of manual occupations, which are now experienced as a decline in the person's social status, although the data confirm that both in terms of employment and in terms of economic return, these occupations represent an important employment opportunity. secondly, the defence of a flexibility which does not degenerate into exploitation of the individual by condemning him to a lifetime of precariousness, which does not conceal illegal intentions of replacing forms of cooperation for an indefinite period, but of an intelligent flexibility which knows how to be an intelligent interpreter of the changed conditions of the business modus operandi, responds to the needs of the market by guaranteeing employment and facilitating the integration of even the weakest groups into the world of work.
in writing. i would first like to congratulate my colleague pascale gruny for her diligent work to find the best possible compromise on this important issue of atypical contracts. it should be borne in mind that labour law reforms must focus on extending the protection of workers with atypical contracts and facilitating transitions between different types of employment and unemployment. i therefore call on the commission and the national governments to take their responsibilities in relation to the situation of the 'excluded' (atypical or 'very atypical' contract workers) and to strike a balance between their rights and those of the 'in place' workers. finally, i would particularly stress that the indefinite contract must be the rule and that flexicurity cannot work without strong social protection.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of mrs gruny's report, which i think is well balanced and takes account of a number of social and economic aspects. atypical workers can be an added value in the current economic recovery, and for this reason they must also be protected and included in the existing directives. the report sets out clear guidelines and concrete measures to safeguard jobs and ensure quality employment throughout europe. i think it is very important to call on the member states to actively support workers, to guarantee them flexible working conditions, the right to holidays, part-time work and incentives for homework. europe must move towards common principles, aiming above all at increasing productivity and the quality of employment, guaranteeing security, social protection and special support for the disadvantaged.
in writing. - we vote in favour of this report because while it is right that there should be flexibility in the labour market and that young people should be prepared to accept atypical contracts which are useful for their training, we must also ensure that these opportunities are not used by unfair operators who exploit young people by underpaying them.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because i believe that efficient and sustainable management of organic waste is a top priority for the eu, also in the light of the estimates that show the annual production of organic waste in the union between 76.5 and 102 million tonnes for food and gardening waste and 37 million tonnes for food and drink waste.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while i have some reservations about the feasibility of certain objectives set out in the report, i have decided to support and therefore vote in favour of the report by mr josé manuel fernandes. the implementation of organic waste management techniques aimed at avoiding landfilling appears not only to be a responsible gesture towards the environment and communities, but also a strategic investment to strengthen a potential new pool of employment resources.
in writing. biodegradable organic waste biodegradable garden, kitchen and food waste represents about one third of urban waste and has a potentially significant impact on the environment. when they are landfilled, they emit methane, a greenhouse gas 23 times more potent than carbon dioxide and one of the main drivers of climate change. while waste management in the european union is governed by a wide body of legislation, there is scope for further improvements in the area of biodegradable organic waste, especially as this waste offers the possibility of being recycled and used as a source of renewable energy. in this sense, a specific directive on the management of organic waste would be a crucial point for the implementation of the principles deriving from the framework directive on waste and from other directives on waste management in general. the only reservation i have is that the directive must be flexible enough to be applied locally, so that the best solution can be chosen from an environmental and economic point of view.
in writing. − our position on the commission's green paper on the management of biodegradable organic waste is favourable. the introduction of separate collection systems, the development of compost standards, guidance for the prevention of organic waste, the application of the life cycle concept and waste assessment are the starting points for greater efficiency and savings, calling for mandatory separate collection for all eu states except where this is not economically and environmentally feasible.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive to the council. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis has shown us that greater coordination at european level is an absolute priority for the development and stability of financial markets. i would like to stress that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. while the granting of the power to take directly binding individual decisions to financial supervisors under article 10 of the regulations is in line with the political will to react quickly to emergency situations, in the case of day-to-day supervision this power is in conflict with articles 17 and 258 of the treaty, which provide that the commission has exclusive competence to monitor the application of union law. moreover, this would create a paradoxical situation whereby member states, present in the main governing body through their own authorities, would be indirectly responsible for the application of union law. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, i have proposed a compromise amendment which seeks to resolve this discrepancy between the powers conferred on the authorities and the role and powers of the commission, in full respect of the treaty. i hope that the contribution of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights will serve as a basis for any compromise with the other european institutions to reach a rapid and much-needed solution, in full respect of union law.
i wanted to make an announcement: the council has rightly complained about the absence of the council, but today is the first sitting of the new parliament in belgium and therefore, because of force majeure, it was not possible to ensure the presence of the council. let us now begin the debate with the speakers from the political groups.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations. i cannot believe that there is still a shortsightedness among governments about giving the supervisory authorities we are creating no real powers. it would be like creating structures that are incapable of surveillance and what do we do with them? the european parliament, as we know, is not an army of extremists making revolutionary demands. we are ordinary people living among citizens, that is, among those who have suffered on their own, on their own shoulders, the disaster of financial markets without supranational rules. our proposals are those of de larosière, not those of robespierre, as the good commissioner barnier knows very well. friends of the council, even if you are not here, you will read our words. we expect a positive response from you to our gesture of responsibility, and if that does not happen, we will vote in september and tell all the citizens of europe that we want direct supervision of intermediaries by the authorities, that we want the supervision of esma extended to pan-european entities, that we want the last word to be with the european authorities in the event of disagreement between the national authorities. the council's friends, do not be like the ostriches, who, in order not to look at reality, buried their heads in the sand. reality is hard but must be faced with courageous choices and with strong choices!
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i share the desire to safeguard the security of markets and the investments of european citizens. i would like to see the european institutions' reactions, and our own in particular, not be taken too seriously in the face of the crisis and the recent financial scandals. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. there are already many, very expensive independent authorities throughout europe, both at community and national level, but they have not prevented the crisis in the markets or the financial difficulties and scandals which have recently been recorded in europe. i agree that better coordination between the various national authorities is necessary, but i believe that in this area too it is not necessary to approve everything. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, i believe that political accountability must be strengthened. as the only european institution directly responsible to the people, i believe that we must not abdicate our prerogatives. we must not and cannot trust faithfully in so-called independent authorities: they are a technical tool to be used, but they are not and will never be the solution.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the measures for the supervision of the european financial system must have - and this report should emphasize this better - a priority objective which must be very clear and strongly supported: the commission's objective is to establish strict rules to control the derivatives market, which is one of the main causes, if not the main cause, of the current financial crisis. here, instead, we are mainly designing a centralized institution, somewhat copied on the model of the ecb, and this is not good, because at this point we do not understand, we do not understand well what is the role of the national supervisory agencies in our country, the bank of italy. it seems that they are reduced to the role of agents, a role that is not very well defined, whereas surveillance must be carried out from the territory, in our country, for example, this is also done through a system of local branches that can monitor situations well. and why the european agency's headquarters in frankfurt? who decided that? on what basis, if not on the basis of, i would say, making it the same as the european central bank? we propose the milan location, for example, a major financial and banking centre, also from a geoeconomic point of view in the centre of europe. i believe that we must go much further in this respect, with measures which we must have the courage to take, for example by introducing into european legislation a separation based on the principles of the old american law, a separation between speculative banks and commercial and savings banks.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a serious and credible financial policy for the european union must put a strong coordination between community policies and those of the individual member states at the centre of its agenda. the new multiannual programme 2014-2020 must take due account of this opportunity, which at the same time represents a serious prospect of sustainable development. the authorities which should be activated to this end must develop intervention strategies consistent with the sustainable growth of the european union and even more vigilance, in order to prevent the possible collapse of the system, without thereby hindering healthy entrepreneurship. the banking system - and why not - should, i would say, above all, protect the family, better regulation and strict supervision, to give further vitality to a system, the european system, which needs increasing prosperity.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in a time of economic and financial crisis the european union should take strong measures at european level, by increasing control over banking institutions and financial markets. the creation of four new control bodies could be a viable alternative, ensuring close cooperation with the national supervisory bodies. these would not be bodies responsible for monitoring the whole of their area of competence, but specific financial institutions composed of representatives at the highest level of national supervisory authorities, which will help to harmonise standards and regulation across eu states. in particular, the european banking authority will assess access to, availability of and costs of credit for consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises. at the end of the g20, unfortunately, the idea of taxing the banks, which was strongly supported by both president barroso and van rompuy, was not even considered. in a europe increasingly exposed to the crisis, joint action is needed to build common rules to protect citizens and investors.
in writing. the union is unable to deal effectively and promptly with this type of emergency, due to the lack of appropriate political and economic apparatuses and common rules. first of all, we need a really effective system of supervision, which goes beyond the bureaucratic logic with which systemic crises have been dealt with in the past. secondly, coordination and harmonization of economic and fiscal policies are essential, even at the cost of leaving behind those countries which are most reluctant to harmonize these policies. the european union has a political, social and moral duty to intervene. this duty is based on the values which form the basis of the union and are enshrined in the treaties. but the union has its own interests first and foremost. the recent world crisis has already amply demonstrated the interconnectedness of financial systems, and the eurozone member states are even more so. so to avert a crisis that could have far more serious consequences, vigilance and intervention by means of strict external control are necessary. the economy can only function with healthy financial markets that serve the economy. this is one of the conditions for citizens to take ownership of the internal market, their european market.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the two rapporteurs for the excellent work they have done. the tightening of supermanagers' bonuses is a very important signal, firstly because it is the first time in the world that a ceiling has been set on the payments of bank executives; secondly, because it is a clear set of rules the bonus for managers will only have to be paid when the bank has collected profits and no longer on the basis of the forecast of results; thirdly, because the new measures will put an end to the incentives to take excessive risks. finally, there will be greater transparency and accountability as shareholders will be able to attend meetings and exercise the voting rights of directors' remuneration.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the novel food regulation contains a list of traditional non-eu foods which are authorized to be placed on the community market. the committee on the environment has approved the amendment proposed by my group that such food must comply with the safety requirements in force in the european union. we also very much welcome the proposal to subject these foods to a prior ethical opinion, to prevent food coming from endangered species or from species whose consumption would be reprehensible for us europeans from circulating on our market. the main point of disagreement is the inclusion of cloned meat for food use, which we do not want. no agreement was reached between the parties during the trilogue; the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the labelling and traceability of meat from cloned animals. the line of the northern league delegation is clear and unmistakable: we are in favour of healthy products, quality products and possibly zero kilometres!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, eight out of ten european citizens do not think that cloning animals for food purposes is justified, and six out of ten say that they will never consume products derived from cloned animals. these data confirm once again that there is no valid reason to allow animal cloning for food. the authorization of the marketing of food and products derived from cloned animals should make us all think carefully about the consequences of this choice. allowing the consumption of meat, milk and cheese from cloned animals today could allow the marketing of products in the future which are not healthy and natural but which have been created artificially in the laboratory, and, as my colleague antonescu said a short while ago, we still do not know whether cloning for food is really safe and does not pose risks to human health. we only know that this technique causes animals suffering, pain and sorrow that are often avoidable. the cloned food also puts at risk the typical production and the work of millions of farms which, with commitment and sacrifice, ensure excellent products every day. so i say no to cloned food on our tables, but yes to a healthy, balanced diet and, why not, let me say, mediterranean too.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, should we allow the marketing of meat from cloned animals? and it begs the question: and why should we authorize it? is there a shortage of meat supplies in europe? no, it's not. it's a component that doesn't hold up. is there enough information for consumers? i mean, is a consumer able to clearly understand and choose which meat comes from a cloned animal and which does not? but if there is no clarity on the nutritional content of the foodstuffs already in circulation, let alone on these new elements! and is it safe from a scientific standpoint? well, we could say in 50 years, it took us centuries to figure out that mold could be the source of penicillin. every time an epidemic breaks out, from avian flu to mad cow disease, we have to wait a long time to understand its origins and to weed them out, and now we're adding new elements that we don't have scientific certainty about. is there a europe that says yes to everything? no, because this europe does not want to say where the products come from, it is against... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. the report adopted today on the placing of novel foods on the market is further confirmation of the sensitivity of our assembly to the demands for information and food safety from citizens, rather than those of the animal and food experimentation lobbies which often respond to economic logic. we reject in principle the genetic manipulation of humans, animals or plants until it is proved at all levels that there is no risk of harm to the health of the public. furthermore, animals should not suffer for the sake of human health. i wonder what the consumer's interest is in having meat from a badly-maintained animal before slaughter, 'reconstituted' into a succulent steak by injecting nanomaterials or modified proteins. a few months ago, when i voted on thrombin, also known as the 'meat glue', i expressed my concern about initiatives which have a clear industrial interest without guaranteeing full and parallel protection for consumers. i therefore voted in favour of amendment no 14, which argues that the european commission should undertake to submit a specific legislative proposal on the placing on the market of novel foods derived from cloning processes. as a good italian and emilian-romagnolo, the only "pasticci" i appreciate are those "bolognese", of which i can guarantee the secular authenticity of the recipe. i reject, on the other hand, genetically modified products which are offered to the consumer in the absence of detailed information enabling him to be fully aware of the true nature of the food he is eating. thank you, sir.
member of the commission. − mr president, since i am also a sports fan i share your views, but there is a comfortable 3-1 lead for the netherlands, and i think the proposal we are discussing today is worth being here for. we are at the threshold of an agreement on industrial emissions that will bring european union action to reduce pollution from the largest industrial sources into line with ambitious environmental objectives. at the same time, it will provide opportunities for eco-innovation and strengthen sustainable production methods in important sectors of our economy. we would not have reached this point if it were not for the hard work of the european parliament on this important dossier. i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, mr holger krahmer, as well as the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, for the excellent work carried out on the proposal for a directive on industrial emissions. this directive represents a significant step forward in the control of industrial pollution in the european union. we presently find ourselves in a situation where industrial pollution accounts for over 80% of emissions of sulphur dioxide, over 40% of dust and over 30% of nitrogen oxides. we find ourselves also in a situation where implementation at local level, with differing applications of best available techniques, is diverse. it is therefore very clear that the status quo is insufficient, not only in terms of protection of the environment, but also in terms of distortion of competition. the strengthening of two of the core elements of the legislation – the application of the best available techniques as a rule, and revised emission limit values for major sectors – is absolutely necessary, and i am happy to see that parliament shares this point of view. action here will ensure that industrial installations throughout the european union achieve high environmental standards and protect the health and well-being of our citizens. it also provides us with the opportunity to stimulate eco-innovation. the work of the european parliament, as i already mentioned, has been key in reaching an agreement that maintains the environmental integrity of the commission’s proposal and that, on a number of occasions in the institutional process, seemed unachievable. by voting now to agree on this directive, parliament can demonstrate its true commitment to reducing pollution from industry. the commission can accept the compromise package – and it is a compromise – in order to reach an agreement on this directive at second reading, and i would encourage parliament adopt the same position.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to pay a special tribute to our rapporteur, mr krahmer, because we all know that we have indeed achieved a result which at times seemed unexpected. i would like to remind you that this directive, this dossier was indeed considered to be a dossier at risk of conciliation. so, as we heard from the commissioner, it is clear to everyone that we are faced with a job that has been complex and has taken a long time. it is enough to consider that this is a 1996 directive and that this work leads us to the fifth and most important amendment to the directive on industrial emissions. i believe that these few figures alone tell us all the shortcomings and even the defects of this legislation. a directive which is difficult to implement - i would point out that nine member states are affected by infringement procedures - and whose scope is so wide that it is sometimes even inappropriate. all this - we must not hide it from ourselves - has involved considerable effort, has required the resignation of all the institutions involved, of all the political groups, of all the national delegations, and has not infrequently placed us before very difficult choices. but i am here tonight to say with conviction that i think we have achieved the best possible results in terms of protecting competition, protecting the environment, and european industrial and employment policy. we have indeed, on the one hand, a directive which imposes common obligations on all the member states, but on the other hand, a directive which also allows for the necessary flexibility. i really hope that the results of this reorganization will be, in the short term, a reduction in administrative burdens and, in the medium term, improved environmental performance and the strengthening of european industry.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are considering today is one of the most important of the whole legislative period, as it will have significant economic repercussions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that this is done. today we are voting on a text which increases the attention of industry to the environment, but which at the same time does not have an excessive impact on the european industrial economy, especially at a time of crisis such as the one we are going through. respect for the environment does not mean closing down european industrial plants, because these productions would simply be moved to third countries or emerging countries where environmental controls are non-existent. china recently said that it has no intention of reducing the ratio of energy sources 80% coal and 20% oil indeed, it said that it wants to double its energy needs by 2020. closing down or moving companies from europe to other countries does not bring any benefits to the global environment, but it does lead to job losses and a worsening of the economic crisis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the president of the european council, who was not elected, we have today a rotating presidency in the hands of a government which is not trusted by its own citizens. this is enough to explain why europe is in a deep crisis, a europe which has become a political paradox in the hands of a political elite in which the citizens do not recognize themselves. the programme of the belgian non-presidency is structural reforms, employment growth, financial stability and competitiveness, and the instrument chosen would be the eu 2020 strategy. the present crisis, however, should push europe to adopt very different ingredients from those which led to its failure. a general rethink is needed, because the crisis is not the mirror of decline, but rather the death certificate of the european social model, which the european propaganda would like to give as a cure. today europe is a huge building collapsing under the weight of democracy, centralism and the obstacles to free enterprise. to get out of the crisis, europe must change its vocabulary: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. everything else will only accelerate the decline inexorably.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with you, mr president, that the european union has a duty to play a key role in international affairs and that we must speak with a strong and united voice. it is our responsibility to act decisively and promptly whenever human rights are violated, wherever in the world that is. i hope that this six-month period of the belgian presidency will be marked by a constant commitment to these issues, and as a demonstration of this commitment i ask that attention be paid immediately to what is happening in some libyan prisons in the sahara desert: two hundred and fifty citizens of eritrean origin, including women and children, have been held for days in inhumane conditions, in violation of all international human rights and asylum legislation. many of these citizens were rejected despite having all the requirements to be accepted as political refugees. the italian foreign minister frattini even accuses the european union of not having even issued a press release. i think that this is the time to make the european union's strong and united voice heard. we cannot turn our heads away at this moment, because 250 people are asking us not to die.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the most important thing that belgium and the belgian semester of this period should try to do is to respect the treaty of lisbon. the treaty of lisbon draws on europe's cultural, religious and humanistic heritage, from which have developed universal values and inalienable rights of the person, freedom, democracy, equality and the rule of law. alas, this semester has not started well: it began with a violent raid, unprecedented in the history of the european community, on the archdiocese of malines, with the seizure of catholic bishops in a meeting, with the seizure of confidential documents deposited by citizens who had expressly asked to remain anonymous, with the destruction and desecration with pneumatic hammers of the tombs of two cardinals inside a church. if this is the beginning of a belgian semester, it scares me, but it reminds me of what happened in '97, when belgium put opus dei and the sant'egidio association on a list of satanic cults.
the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the proposals contained in the white paper on growth and jobs. we are talking about a country which has been signing partnership agreements with the union for years now, which joined schengen in 1996 and which is one of the founding members of the world trade organisation. iceland has so far demonstrated that it meets many of the accession criteria, although some areas still need improvement. i think, as the rapporteur, mr preda, has said, that the judicial system: the commission has also received comments from the icelandic authorities, which have confirmed that the icelandic authorities have not yet taken any action to address the issue of the appointment of judges, prosecutors and supreme judicial authorities. the icelandic government must do more, however, it is the icelandic people who must be convinced that they want to participate in the european challenge! some aspects still need to be defined: one is the one about the whaling. the agadir conference of 25 june last confirmed the moratorium, and iceland must comply with this decision and also stop hunting for scientific purposes, which is often hidden behind hunting for commercial purposes. finally, there is one point on which i think there should be greater conviction on the part of the european parliament, and that is the icesave case which has highlighted the need in that country for a good conflict of interest law. the negotiations can now begin, mr president, to reiterate that europe is not a geographical area, it is not a closed system and the countries bordering the union can, if they wish and if they adapt, participate in the realization and construction of the european project.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i simply ask that amendment no 5 be verified electronically.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of this report is to regulate the placing on the market of novel foods and foods from third countries and to lay down rules for the authorization, monitoring, labelling and use of novel foods. this was confirmed by parliament at first reading and aimed at ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests. the council took account of only part of this in its first reading. however, the most important amendments at first reading, having not been taken up by the council, have been reintroduced in parliament, particularly as regards the question of cloned foodstuffs in relation to foodstuffs and feedingstuffs, to which, with the amendments adopted today and which i voted for, the necessary guarantees have been introduced for consumers as to the origin of the raw materials used in the production processes.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, technology in the food sector also requires the states, and therefore europe, to adopt constantly regulations and legislative measures to protect health and the quality of food. this is of course in relation to the free movement of food, but on the condition that it is healthy and safe, because this is an essential prerequisite, precisely in the context of the protection of human health, for a regular and effective legislative activity. the measure we have adopted today, following the position proposed by the council, therefore proposes that all products which have certain innovative features be entered in this specific list, so that there is no knowledge of the absence of products relating to techniques and technologies which involve genetic modification of the measures, especially those which come from third countries, from countries outside the single market. that is why we can say that we are satisfied with the measure adopted in this legislative framework.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union's integrated approach to the problem of pollution allows us to be increasingly present institutionally and concretely in the control of industrial emissions. the protection of the environment in which we live is essential to ensure the maximum livability of future generations. the protection of the atmosphere, soil and water requires that all levels of the institutions devise strategies to control and reduce pollutant emissions, so as to reduce the environmental damage caused throughout the 20th century. but this should not lead us to adopt too rigid attitudes towards industries which pollute the planet and which, in a time of severe economic and financial crisis, would be liable to pay high or unsustainable adaptation costs. i agree with the report, but it must be stressed that the need to achieve a result in a relatively short time must often be translated into objectives involving all the member states.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the challenge of preventing pollution from industrial emissions is a very topical problem, which is cross-cutting in many areas, including, of course, the protection of the environment, the health of citizens and the competitiveness of enterprises. the directive in question, precisely in the context of a comprehensive approach to these important areas, pursued the objective of promoting the implementation of the best available techniques for controlling emissions by creating harmonised standards in the european union for the authorisation of industrial installations to protect the environment, which is often threatened and compromised by its emissions. but all this taking into account the need, also for our industries, not to lose the competitiveness needed to meet the challenges of the future. the political commitment required on this subject was considerable, and the intensive and patient mediation action required, thanks to which an agreement was finally reached on the occasion of the third trilogue. i would therefore like to express my support for this report.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the current economic and financial crisis has amply demonstrated the need for the european union to have an effective, efficient and integrated financial surveillance system in order to prevent other crises like the one that is still unfolding. i therefore believe that the establishment of a european systemic risk board is the best way forward to safeguard the internal market, to ensure consistency in decisions and to respond to the demands of citizens who have been waiting for a long time for concrete measures.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am in favour of the establishment of the european banking authority because this instrument should be able to fill the regulatory gaps that were revealed during the last financial and economic crisis, a gap which parliament had unfortunately identified long ago. as has been shown in some reports on this subject, coordination between national supervisory authorities, whose jurisdiction is bound up with the borders of their respective states, is not sufficient for the control of those financial institutions which, on the other hand, conceive of the internal market as a genuine area without frontiers. the establishment of this authority could therefore be a significant first step in addressing this type of problem.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i strongly believe that the statement that these independent, strong authorities should be set up, with powers to impose sanctions and the possibility of direct intervention without the intervention of the states or the council and the commission, but i also have some doubts, because we must avoid any reference to forms of taxation on the part of the banking system. all this is for the recovery, to avoid the costs being passed on to small and mediumsized enterprises, to citizens and above all because we do not have a single banking system. the italian banking system, for example, is a system that has survived, proving to be sound, based on sound finance, based mainly on the savings of citizens and not speculative, as has happened in other countries. i still have some doubts about the ban, albeit temporary, on financial activities, possibly subject to exceptional circumstances. i also believe that the direct oversight responsibilities of the esa for systemically important groups should be clearly defined and the roles between macro-prudential oversight, the esrb, and micro-prudential oversight, the esa, should be clarified. in view of the above, i hope that today's vote will allow a quick, swift and balanced compromise with the council to be reached.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the recent financial crisis has given rise to a great deal of debate on the urgent need for action to ensure the sustainability and stability of the financial system. the measures taken so far will entail costs of unprecedented proportions, with negative side effects such as freezing of financial markets, contraction of credit markets, paralysis of enterprises, a surge in the unemployment rate and a decrease in tax revenues. whatever their final cost, it is clear that it will be too much for the taxpayers, growth and employment in europe. the different strategies, methods and instruments used in europe and the us have raised serious concerns about the effectiveness of the overall process, legal uncertainty and distortion of competition. the need for global, coherent solutions through international alignment of regulations and procedures is more urgent than ever, and it is at this moment that the european union is called upon to show its leadership and to play an active part in planning the new financial system, a sound and healthy european single market among 27 members.
in writing. − in the financial sector and in some listed companies, the remuneration policies of categories of staff whose professional activities have a material impact on the risk profile of the firm or company have encouraged transactions aimed at short-term profit making, developing increasingly risky business models to the detriment of workers, savers and investors. in addition, the commission green paper on corporate governance in financial institutions and remuneration policies stresses that the lack of control mechanisms has contributed to excessive risk-taking by financial institutions. in view of the many initiatives taken at global, european and national level to address problematic pay practices and taking into account the fact that it is essential to adopt a coordinated strategy at international level, i support the initiatives already taken by the commission. however, i think that, as far as pay policies in the financial sector are concerned, we must remember the size of the financial enterprise and therefore the contribution of its activity to the systemic risk which imposes additional regulatory burdens on pay policy. i also believe that the supervisory authorities should decide whether to set up a remuneration committee for financial institutions, taking into account the size, internal organisation, nature and complexity of the activities carried out by financial institutions.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that the food security of our continent depends on clear and decisive regulation. i am referring in particular to the question of food from cloned animals or their offspring. i hope that parliament's position on this matter, which has been expressed by a large majority against this type of food, will be taken into account.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when changing the rules on novel foods, it is necessary to ensure that the precautionary principle and food safety are respected, which is one of its most important applications. the rapporteur's proposal to exclude cloned meat from the scope of the regulation and the ban on the use of cloned meat for food purposes ensure that the european food model remains a safe model, and this is the direction that the northern league, the movement to which i belong, has always been heading. i congratulate mrs liotard and will support her work as a whole.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we know that cloning must be the subject of a specific legislative proposal by the european commission. but we cannot risk having food on our tables from cloned animals or products created in the laboratory until such time as this regulation is introduced. we must first of all ensure the safety of our consumers, and this is difficult without explicitly prohibiting the use of cloned animals or their descendants in food. i am therefore pleased that the vote by the european parliament today is in this direction. the commission has also proposed a moratorium on food produced by the use of nanotechnology until any health risks can be ruled out. it is not a question of going against scientific progress and its possible positive effects, but of regulating its impact on people according to the criteria of the utmost caution. too often in the past products have been given the green light and then withdrawn from the market because they were harmful to health. i hope the council will follow suit.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, my position on the report to the house is motivated, among other things, by the conviction that the free movement of cloned meat should be blocked. as regards new or unusual foods in the european union, i believe that both a prior ethical opinion and a sort of certificate of compliance with the safety requirements in force in the european union for all other foods are necessary.
in writing. − the protection of human health through food control is a major priority for the european union. the main objective is to establish harmonised rules for the placing of novel foods on the community market in order to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests, while ensuring the transparency and effective functioning of the internal market and stimulating innovation in the agri-food sector. some of the amendments adopted concerned the collection of information relating to the classification of novel foods, the prohibition of non-compliant novel foods, the conditions for inclusion of novel foods in the community list, information, monitoring, labelling, traditional foods from third countries, the use of non-animal experiments and smart testing strategies, data protection and inspection and control measures.
in writing. in the white paper on food safety, the commission announced its intention to examine the application of the rules on novel foods and to make the necessary changes. the com proposal on novel foods of 14 january 2008 aims to regulate the placing on the market of novel foods and foods from third countries and lays down rules for their authorisation, supervision and labelling. on 25 march 2009, parliament adopted a legislative resolution amending the above proposal at first reading. in order to ensure a high level of protection of the health and welfare of humans, animals and the environment, parliament wanted to exclude foodstuffs obtained from cloned animals and their offspring. the council position at first reading on novel foods was adopted on 15 march 2010. however, the council did not take account of all the elements of parliament's first reading; the council has not given due consideration to the fundamental amendments. i think that in the second reading parliament's position at first reading should be respected as much as possible, given that it was adopted by a large majority.
in writing. - we support the measure because, contrary to the council's position, it excludes the free movement of cloned meat, despite parliament's negative vote on the ethical opinion prior to the authorisation of a novel food and the obligation to meet eu safety requirements also for traditional non-eu foods.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this well-balanced text. i commend the work of my colleagues in the envi committee who have succeeded in reaching a comprehensive compromise. the industrial emissions directive incorporates seven directives in order to simplify and amend existing legislation. the sectors concerned are many, from livestock farming to large combustion plants. i agree with the approach to minimum requirements. while some activities cannot be regulated at european level alone, there must be at least a minimum common denominator to avoid distortions of competition and the environment. i agree that the commission, which has the necessary resources and know-how, should be the authority responsible for identifying them. in this connection, i welcome the derogations introduced to ensure the necessary flexibility for the member states. finally, i would like to point out the emphasis on public information, the logic of transparency and consumer protection which characterizes the work of this parliament. overall, i am satisfied with the report which strengthens environmental protection while reducing unnecessary administrative burdens.
in writing. − the objective of the 1996 directive on the integrated prevention and control of pollution (ippc) is to prevent and control emissions to air and soil from european industrial installations. the ippc aims to promote the implementation of best available techniques (bat), i.e. those that are economically and technically sound and that ensure maximum efficiency in achieving a high level of environmental protection: they are defined in the bat reference documents (brefs) developed following an exchange of information between the commission, member state authorities and stakeholders (the 'seville process'). at its plenary session on 10 march 2009, parliament discussed at first reading the commission's proposal to establish the emission limit value directly on the basis of brefs: the commission has also proposed a number of amendments to the directive, including a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. i support the proposal to establish union-wide minimum requirements for emission limit values only for activities requiring eu intervention, according to the criteria of environmental impact and state of implementation of bat in the sector concerned.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the text aims to achieve a better degree of environmental protection without imposing an excessive burden on the undertaking.
in writing. - deforestation is a problem with serious implications for both carbon dioxide emissions and the continued loss of biodiversity. unfortunately, the main cause of this phenomenon is illegal logging: i believe that the eu should take a firm stand against the use and marketing of illegally obtained timber, which currently represents 20% to 40% of all industrial timber. i therefore vote in favour of this report in the hope that we will be able to bring down the use of illegally harvested timber in europe.
in writing. - it is absolutely unacceptable that wood is imported into the european union knowing that it could have created serious environmental and social problems in the countries where it was cut. as responsible people we cannot turn a blind eye to the true origin of the products we consume, especially when they cause damage to other societies and the ecosystem.
in writing. − deforestation is responsible for almost 20% of global carbon dioxide emissions and is a major cause of biodiversity loss; illegal logging also causes serious problems of human rights violations to dependent and indigenous populations. as a consumer of timber and timber products, the eu has an obligation to take effective measures to tackle this phenomenon, including ending the market for illegally sourced timber and timber products. the partnership agreements (pas) approach that the eu has implemented in the forest law enforcement, governance and trade (flegt) 2003 framework is not sufficient; the only partnership agreement signed so far is one which, given its voluntary nature, is at high risk of being circumvented and circumvented in some way. the council's position is weaker than that of parliament at first reading and does not contain important elements such as the prohibition of the marketing of illegal timber and timber products, does not provide for obligations for operators, does not specify sanctions for serious infringements. i believe that the debate on this subject needs to be improved and broadened in the name of protecting the environment.
in writing. - favourable, since it tends to prevent the placing on the market of wood from illegal felling. in this case our vote in the commission was against, but after the trilogue with the commission and the council a good compromise was reached.
in writing. − the financial crisis has exposed existing gaps in financial globalisation, eu financial integration and national control. the european union's response to the crisis must be courageous; the financial services failures and their significant and unfair impact on the real economy and public finances are no longer tolerable. the european union must provide responses in terms of surveillance at both the macroeconomic and microeconomic levels and manage both individual cases and general legislation. in this context, the main objectives of technical standards are to achieve full harmonisation of financial legislation and its consistent application through supervisory approaches and practices. technical standards on supervision are necessary instruments to achieve harmonisation in this field at european level.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote in favour of the report by mr giegold on the creation of a european market authority. as i have already said and will say again today, i agree that europe must be strengthened and have a level playing field. we live in a global market which needs global rules! the creation of a european authority is a huge step forward both in strengthening the single market and in meeting the challenges posed by the giants outside europe. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the european parliament and to the council for adoption. i look forward to the new tasks that will be assigned to esma not only in the light of the provisions of the supervisory package but also in the light of the outcome of the legislation on alternative investment fund managers. another important new feature is the power the new authority will have over international rating agencies. i hope that the next commission legislative proposal to this effect will be well balanced and adopted quickly.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have expressed my support for mrs goulard's report. since the work in the committee on economic and monetary affairs i have contributed a number of amendments which have been incorporated into the final text. i think it is very important that the european systemic risk board can give early warning of possible systemic risks and recommend appropriate measures to deal with them. the esrb will play a crucial role in its financial architecture system, it will be the only institution able to have a general and all-embracing view, its role as watchdog and liaison between the various esas will be decisive in the event of future crises or alarms. in this respect, i believe that the powers of direct supervision of systemically important groups should be clearly defined and the roles between macro-prudential supervision by the esrb and micro-prudential supervision by the esas clarified, but i am confident that this will be clarified in the course of finalising the text in the negotiations with the council.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr skinner's report on the creation of a european insurance authority. i have always been a supporter of the need for europe to have common and effective rules and instruments to deal with the financial crisis and to revive the economy. it is therefore necessary to act without delay and quickly to create this supervisory architecture, creating independent authorities with sanctioning powers and direct possibilities of intervention without having to go through the council or the commission. the question i have is, however, about the contributions from the sector. i agree that the citizens cannot be the ones to pay in the case of the failure of financial institutions, but there is a distinction to be made. there are systems that have held up well during this crisis and have not had to resort to public support. any reference to forms of taxation should therefore be deleted. all this to support the recovery, to avoid the costs being passed on to smes. parliament has today shown a responsible attitude towards the council and i hope that today's vote will allow a quick and balanced compromise to be reached with the council and the commission.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, my position on the report on the judgment of our assembly is motivated, among other things, by the conviction that in banking matters, in order to protect markets and savings, it is necessary to define new capital standards both in terms of re-securitisation and trading portfolios, in order to increase cover and guarantee against the risks assumed by banking institutions. in the banking sector too, i think it would be desirable to introduce rules on remuneration policies so that the remuneration and bonuses granted to managers are limited and in any case proportionate to the performance and long-term financial situation of the credit institutions. the beneficial effects include encouraging managers not to pursue overly speculative and risky policies, other than for individual institutions, for the markets as a whole.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the so-called crd3 directive on the capital requirements of financial institutions. the proposal contains a whole series of new features designed to adapt and safeguard the financial system in the event of future risks and crises. i agree with the strengthening of capital requirements for trading book items (assets held short-term by financial institutions for sale) and for re-securitisations. i also welcome the introduction of sanctions and thresholds in the area of pay policies, particularly bonuses, to avoid practices which encourage intolerable and unmanageable risks. i think it is right that banks which have received public support will not be allowed to pay bonuses to their managers until the aid has been fully repaid. the salaries of the directors of these banks will not exceed eur 500 000 per year. the fact that bonuses cannot exceed 50% of the total remuneration of a manager seems to me appropriate and respectful of european citizens and taxpayers.
in writing. − in order to safeguard european financial stability, it is essential to establish a type of transnational supervision. only european macroprudential could have found that unsustainable credit growth, housing bubbles and large current account deficits were such as to generate serious risks to macroeconomic and financial stability. the creation of a new microprudential supervisory authority will help to contain the risks of further financial crises.
in writing. - regulation is doubtful as two new supervisory authorities are to be created: a macro-prudential (cers) and a micro-prudential (sevf). the esrb will not be able to impose measures or sanctions on member states or financial institutions and its reports will not be binding. the esfs should be guaranteed by the ecb. we therefore vote in favour of referral back to committee.
in writing. - i fully agree with the report and have therefore voted in favour of it. in this case, i find the passage in the report which states that in order to be effective in supporting interventions, an eu crisis management framework needs a common set of rules, adequate expertise and financial resources, which should therefore also form the pillars of the proposed priority regime for crossborder systemic banks, to be broadly shared.
in writing. - the difficulties facing the world's economic systems have pushed employment in europe to record lows and called into question the role of the banking system. at a time like the present, when the products of this crisis have been conveyed by financial scandals and its causes have been identified in the fantasy of financial engineering to the detriment of investors and their savings, i can only support the report by my colleague mr ferreira. the report on recommendations to the commission on crossborder crisis management in the banking sector responds not only to the need to protect consumers and their savings, but also to ensure a single framework of harmonised rules, the uniform application of community legislation, a common supervisory culture and a coordinated response in crisis situations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european institutions must work in a more organised and structured way to ensure sound financial stability. in particular, i fully agree with the passage in the document that real progress is needed in the fiscal and structural policies of individual member states to create a new, more robust economic governance framework, aimed at preventing similar crises in the future and fostering growth potential and sustainable macroeconomic rebalancing in the eu.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the enlargement process has been accelerated too much in my view over the last decade. especially at a time of difficulties when europe must seek some rebalancing in its economic and monetary action, as well as a political balance within itself after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the accession of new countries seems anything but the best way to help the union to clarify its political present and future. on the vote on iceland's accession to the union, i decided to abstain, because, if nothing else, the report refers to a referendum which should be held in iceland before giving the green light to any possible accession. the use of democratic methods is always the main road for any political activity and any kind of initiative, especially in a europe where many choices have been made over the heads of the citizens. the european union is not a party to the treaty of amsterdam, but it is a party to the treaty of amsterdam, and it is a party to the treaty of amsterdam.
in writing. - in today's vote, parliament also voted in favour of iceland's accession to the eu. the accession process is therefore proceeding at a very fast pace. this vote underlines the will to see a positive outcome to the negotiations on all the outstanding issues. whaling is one of the most delicate issues we face. we understand that a small state has its own peculiarities and that changing the balance can be particularly difficult. nevertheless, i would have expected much wider support for amendment 22. when it came to the question of bluefin tuna, the european parliament voted in favour of the moratorium without worrying about the damage it would cause to the fleets in the adriatic. this is an excessive position, which was rejected in doha by 73 votes to 43, with 24 abstentions. now, when it comes to the call to protect whales, it's surprising that there was a majority almost of measure. and i am sorry that the very political family to which i belong has put a minus sign on amendment no 22 on its ballot. i would like to stress, however, that the italian delegation voted in favour of the request to stop whaling and to drop all reservations about the international whaling commission.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the resolution on the opening of negotiations for iceland's accession to the european union. iceland is a country that is already geographically in europe and joining the eu is just the normal conclusion of a natural path. the recent economic crisis has put the arctic country in serious difficulties and has also created moments of crisis with some eu states due to the failure of some banks in which european citizens had invested. it is precisely because of this that the european union can intervene and find a solution. accession to the european union will mean that iceland will be subject to common controls and a common market and rules. the negotiations will clearly have to take account of a number of issues, including the problem of fishing quotas, whaling and the supply and management of energy resources.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council. - mr president, madam high representative, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, the report we are about to vote on is not simply an opinion, but the result of intensive negotiation work, for which i would like to thank the high representative, the spanish presidency, and in which parliament has played a decisive role in substantially improving the text of the decision which the council is to adopt. the compromise reached in madrid is fully consistent with the objectives which animated the highly unified work carried out with colleagues brok and verhofstadt: to equip europe with a service with sufficient resources and expertise to enhance the coherence and effectiveness of the eu's external action, but which is at the same time firmly linked to the community method and the commission and subject to full democratic control by the european parliament. i would also like to say to those who speak of the red lines that the european parliament should not cross, which are not well defined, that it is precisely because this parliament has been able to exercise its prerogatives fully and dynamically, perhaps by crossing some red lines drawn by governments, that europe will have a more efficient, more democratic and more european service, a service, for example, capable of promoting consistency between development cooperation policies and the rest of the union's external action, without undermining either the necessary autonomy of those policies or the responsibility of the commission. this strong and determined use of parliament's legislative and budgetary powers will continue, first of all in the coming months, to define the staff regulations and the financial regulations, in accordance with the outlines of this report, and to monitor closely the practical arrangements for the establishment of the service and full compliance with the letter and spirit of the madrid agreement, starting with the adequate presence of union officials also at the top of the service and the reform of the budget for the common foreign and security policy. and then, to give the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy the full support of the institution - the european parliament - which cares more than any other for the development of a genuine european foreign policy and its progressive communityisation, of which the madrid agreement is an important stage.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is what is happening every day around the world that makes the need for the european diplomatic service to become operational as soon as possible more and more concrete. the political agreement can only be considered as a good starting point and a very positive sign for the actual operation of the service. the objectives identified, namely that the service is strong, that it enables the european union to strengthen its role on the world stage, the importance of preserving and strengthening the community method in the service itself and the guarantee of budgetary and political control by parliament will ensure tangible results. however, there are still some points to be clarified, which are perhaps the most decisive for the implementation of the service. i am referring to the ambiguous position of many governments. the red lines mentioned by mr gualtieri, although they were breached in the signing of the recent madrid agreement, have an informal impact, given the ambiguity, as i said earlier, of the attitude of several governments. i am thinking only of the statements made yesterday by minister moratinos of the outgoing presidency, who was rightly anxious to see this result, and who said quite clearly, when speaking of human rights in cuba, that in this area the instrument of bilateral agreements is preferable to the acceptance of a unified european position. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i'm sure you'll get the result we all want.
in writing. i thank the rapporteurs for their continuous, persistent and intelligent work. the committee i chair, given the obvious and delicate institutional implications of the creation of the new service, has followed the drafting of the agreement very carefully from the outset. the afco committee was not only associated with the work of the afet committee in accordance with the very close cooperation provided for in rule 50 of the rules of procedure, but also gave its views to both rapporteurs. i am sure that parliament will approve the document by a very large majority. we must work to ensure that the eeas actually fulfils the role assigned to it by the new treaty and the passion of the rapporteurs. the service is not just a means of making the european union present in the various nations of the world. it also has a very high symbolic value: it expresses the unity of the 27 countries and is a natural consequence of the recognition of the union's legal personality. it is a very important step towards the goal to be achieved. the more votes in favour, the longer the step will be. i hope that it will be made even more firm by the establishment of a european diplomatic academy, for the realization of which i feel i can point to the prestigious european university institute in florence.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said, tomorrow we shall vote on the draft resolution on kosovo prepared by mr lunacek. this debate today and the vote tomorrow are very important and make a useful contribution to the stabilization process in kosovo and the whole of the western balkans. in kosovo, europe must work to ensure that three main objectives are fully achieved in keeping with the commitments it has made: the european union is also committed to the need to strengthen the democratic institutions in kosovo, to promote closer and more integrated relations between the albanian and serbian communities, to fully implement the rule of law and to strengthen the democratic institutions in kosovo. these are the essential conditions for kosovo to take a more decisive step towards the european process. in this context, the european union must be very demanding of itself, through its presence in kosovo, and of the kosovo authorities, in order to advance the process of democratization in the country and put it on the road to european integration. we must be aware that there is still much to be done and that the european union must play an active role in this, also on the basis of the indications coming from the european parliament. now, i think that in the context of this process which we are calling for - and i hope that this call will be accepted by the european parliament and that all the groups will somehow converge - there is certainly an important role to be played, i think, both in negotiation and in dialogue, and in the opening of a sincere relationship, i think, between serbia and kosovo, with a twofold aim: the community's role in the region is to stabilize relations between the two countries and to prepare the whole region for the european perspective in the best possible way. and hopefully that will happen in the not too distant future. this is the commitment we must make with the necessary determination, as a parliament and as the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the reports give the impression that they confirm the europeanisation at all costs that the union is trying to achieve in relation to many countries which, at present, are european only by geographical location. i think this is the case, for example, in albania, which, as the report under discussion points out, has many shortcomings compared with the standards of the member states. i would like to stress in particular the problems connected with the proliferation of the underground economy. the convergence areas are those which receive the bulk of the funds from the european union, and since these areas are determined on the basis of gdp, i can only imagine the distortive effects that will occur at the expense of those countries which are involved in the fight against tax evasion, for example. the question of visa liberalization will also involve the introduction of new labour into the community, and given the current economic situation and unemployment rates, the effects will not be positive. in conclusion, i hope that you will not fail to reflect carefully on the implications of having a predominantly muslim country among the members of the european union, a member of the organisation of the islamic conference, many of whose principles are in conflict with europe's christian roots.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, albania is a key element in the stabilization of the western balkans and in the process of enlargement of the european union. the country is making important progress towards the development of democracy, the improvement of infrastructure and the transition to an open and competitive economy. however, the albanian path towards the european union is still blocked by the difficult stabilization of the party system, also due to the obstructive behavior of the opposition, which has a negative impact on the development and approval of structural reforms. the economy is still held back by an uncertain legal framework, widespread illegality, a large underdeveloped sector and inadequate energy and transport infrastructure. italy has played and continues to play an important role in stabilising albania: it is the first trading partner, the first investor and the first donor, and there are 430,000 albanians living in italy. but these forms of cooperation must be accompanied by the european union's deployment of macro-regional cooperation, such as the adriatic-ionian cooperation, which can open europe's way to the mediterranean.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the environmental catastrophe which has been taking place in the gulf of mexico in recent weeks must be a warning to us all. if such an event were to occur in a sea as enclosed as the mediterranean, which boasts a priceless and unique biodiversity in the world, the consequences would be unimaginable. i have already said that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy. this means that in the event of a material leakage the oil operator is liable only in the event of fault or negligence and only in this case is he liable to pay for the damage caused to the environment. in 2008, out of 103 industrial plant accidents, 17 occurred on mining platforms. although the monitoring and control of rigs is a matter for national authorities, a european initiative to increase the safety of mining installations would certainly be an important signal. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. so, more security and better controls for the common good.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the safeguarding of the sea and the unspoiled landscape of our lands, of each and every country that makes up europe, are among the treasures and strengths of the tourism and economy of our countries, but also of their general welfare. the search for new sources of energy supply is necessary. however, the risk to the ecosystem of our land and our seas must be limited by the control and the national authorities, and also by the community, which prevents unjustified and aggressive exploration and extraction of oil. italy has just recently remedied the regulatory vacuum which has not prevented some platforms from violating our most beautiful coastlines in the past. i thank minister prestigiacomo for this and i hope that all national legislation will protect the well-being of our lands, their habitats and the quality of life of the citizens who live in the areas where this activity is possible.
vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, since we last discussed kyrgyzstan in plenary on 20 april, further dramatic developments have unfolded in the country. in early june the southern provinces of kyrgyzstan witnessed a serious outburst of inter-ethnic violence, which led to the tragic loss of hundreds of lives and many more injured, as well as hundreds of thousands of internally displaced persons and refugees. over the past few weeks, the provisional government has struggled to restore control over a situation which ran the risk of spilling into outright civil war and regional destabilisation. in this critical context, the peaceful and orderly conduct of the constitutional referendum on 27 june came – as i mentioned in a statement on 28 june – as a welcome development towards the re-establishment of the constitutional order and democratic process in kyrgyzstan. the remarkably high turnout and the overwhelming support for the constitutional reform demonstrate the resilience and desire for peace of the citizens of kyrgyzstan. the quick return of refugees from uzbekistan and the relatively calm security situation currently prevailing throughout the country are encouraging signals. the remaining challenges, however, are considerable. as the country prepares for parliamentary elections in october and moves on towards further stabilisation, severe humanitarian needs, deep inter-ethnic tensions and the weakness of institutions remain. moreover, the political and economic situation of the country continues to be very fragile and violence could resume. i am pleased that the european union has been active throughout this crisis. we have followed the events closely from the very beginning, and the foreign affairs council on 14 june discussed the situation only days after the first outburst of violence. it will revert to it again in july. the eu special representative, ambassador morel, has been twice to the country. he has had extensive discussions with the kyrgyzstan authorities and other international stakeholders, including the un and the osce. his team has been substantially strengthened to help him pursue his active role in this critical period. in its response, the eu has not spared its diplomatic and humanitarian efforts. the commission swiftly provided humanitarian aid. commissioner georgieva has just returned from the region, where she was able to take stock on delivery of aid and further needs on the ground. the commissioner knows the area very well. i am delighted that she is with us for this debate. i pay tribute to the incredible work that she has done there and elsewhere. we are also in the process of stepping up our efforts to support the stabilisation and democratisation processes initiated by the provisional government, notably by assisting in the preparation of the forthcoming parliamentary elections, strengthening key institutions and supporting inter-ethnic reconciliation and civil society initiatives, as well as social stabilisation. the emergence of a stable and democratic kyrgyzstan in a hitherto authoritarian and unstable part of the world is a goal we are ready to support. as regards the security aspects and possible eu engagement, we are liaising actively with the un and osce together with others. we are looking carefully into initiatives currently on the table, including the osce proposal for a police task force. with respect to security, as for all other areas for eu engagement, our course of action has been that of close and constant coordination with the international community. we are in touch with the kyrgyzstan authorities, as well as with the osce and un, regarding the intention of bishkek to set up a national commission to investigate the june events in the southern provinces. international experts and assistance have been requested. establishing the facts constitutes an indispensable preliminary step towards fighting impunity, encouraging reconciliation between communities and preventing such events from occurring again. we will therefore insist on the need to ensure the credibility and impartiality of any truth-finding commission, be it of international or national character. we will support international efforts. in this regard, coordination with the osce and the un is key. i look forward very much to hearing honourable members’ views on this matter.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank the parliament for this – i was going to use the word ‘timely’ – discussion but given that a soccer game is going on at this precise moment it may not be as fortunate as we would have hoped. yet i am impressed that there is a very long list of speakers and i am very grateful for everybody who is in the room and is watching on the screens tonight. as the high representative reported, the eruption of ethnic violence in the south of kyrgyzstan has now calmed down and the humanitarian phase is largely over. when i was in osh, i could see the return of vendors on the street and people venturing out again, although there was still occasional shooting in some of the neighbourhoods. i would also like to confirm that our humanitarian response was swift, appropriate and well-targeted. on 16 june, we provided eur 5 million of emergency assistance which was immediately deployed for experts in osh to coordinate and we used the three organisations present there – the red cross, acted and médecins sans frontières – to deploy this assistance. i can say that we did help save lives and provide food, water and shelter, but more importantly we had a physical presence that, in the eyes of the people in osh, was the main contribution to safety and security. through me, people send their gratitude to the european union. today, beneath the calm, there are deep tensions and fears that the violence may return again. a mother of a five-year-old girl who was shot in front of her eyes told me: ‘how can i live with myself if there is no justice?’ there are thousands of people like her, and their patience is wearing thin. there is little confidence among the population that the government can control the situation in the south if it explodes again, and humanitarian organisations are stocking supplies to be ready in case violence returns. in this environment, as the high representative stressed, there are two priorities for our support: restoring trust among the main uzbek and kyrgyz ethnic groups and restoring the livelihoods and housing affected by the conflict. of those, reconciliation is by far the more difficult and the more important objective. both the government and the people in osh firmly believe that the chance of success for reconciliation is much higher with the support of the international community. as the high representative reported, president otunbayeva has already asked the eu for help with an international inquiry into the source of the conflict and an international police contingent to train and reinforce local police. i would like to add that this is also the strong wish of the people in osh who i met: they very explicitly asked for help with the inquiry and help with the police. let me finish by assuring you that the commission will make every effort to help kyrgyzstan in the tough months ahead. we will support the restoration of livelihoods through cash-for-work and cash-for-food programmes, the rehabilitation of damaged houses and the provision of construction materials to families – osh is a very cold place in the winter and that has to be done quickly – as well as legal and psychological support to victims. in addition, the instrument for stability will provide eur 7 million for elections, legislative support and social and physical rehabilitation. an international donors’ conference will take place on 27 july and the commission will take an active part in it. i was very touched by the vote of confidence the kyrgyz authorities and ordinary people have in europe. europe is perceived as neutral and caring, supportive of human rights, supportive of democracy, and able to galvanise the international community to help this small island of democracy at the heart of central asia which is surrounded by authoritarian regimes. the discussion this evening in the european parliament proves this confidence and the value of this confidence, and i would very much like to thank you for it.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to stress that the situation in kyrgyzstan confronts a reality which has not been given the attention it deserves for too long, namely the instability in central asia, which is unfortunately growing, while the hopes for democracy and economic progress, at least in some of these countries, are proving particularly fragile. kyrgyzstan has suffered in recent months from very severe clashes, which will leave, at least for the immediate future, a legacy of inter-ethnic hatreds that will make stabilizing the country even more difficult than it was before. the task of the international community and the european union in particular as already stated is to assist kyrgyzstan as much as possible in three respects: through immediate assistance for emergency supplies and reconstruction of destroyed housing; secondly, by providing economic support for the longest possible period as far as the european union is concerned, in the framework of the central asia strategy and the instruments put in place in this context; the commission will continue to support the process of restoring constitutional legality and the establishment of a genuine rule of law through political support. the constitutional referendum held in kyrgyzstan on 28 june, under obviously very difficult conditions, can be considered a first step on the road to a return to a constitutional order. the electoral process of 28 june, for example, was positively assessed by the osce observation mission, which naturally took account of the special conditions in which the referendum was held. the new constitutional order of kyrgyzstan will be more oriented towards a parliamentary system than a presidential system. this will perhaps allow better account to be taken of the country's diverse ethnic composition and the need to gather the consensus of the various components of such a fractured and composite country. the european union and kyrgyzstan are bound by a partnership and cooperation agreement which provides for regular meetings of a parliamentary cooperation committee. we hope that our interparliamentary relations will be resumed as soon as possible, with the participation of a democratically elected kyrgyz parliament. in the immediate future, as i have said, kyrgyzstan needs stability and our political and economic help. let's try not to be stingy in either.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, madam high representative, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we in the central asian countries would like to see no more pogroms. central asia is a region with a high potential for inter-ethnic conflict, the population is very mixed, the borders were drawn in that way by the stalinist power, it is enough to recall that in kyrgyzstan there is a kyrgyz exclave in uzbek territory and there are as many as four uzbek enclaves in kyrgyz territory, one of which is inhabited only by uzbek citizens living in kyrgyzstan who are of tajik nationality, which makes us understand the complexity of the situation. now we are left with three hundred thousand people who are displaced, one hundred thousand who are refugees in uzbekistan and a very high number of deaths, we don't even know how many, maybe even almost two thousand. what can be done? first of all: the commissioner certainly mentioned this. it is very important to ensure justice, because otherwise no reconciliation can take place, and the experience of other countries shows this. second thing: i am not going to go into the details of the situation, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of putting forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks of exposure to asbestos. one of them has already been raised by mr swoboda, namely the support we must give to this interim government, which is doing a good job. the referendum was a success, both in terms of content, because it restored balance between the presidency and parliament, but it was also a success in terms of organisation and high participation. secondly, i would like to know how we respond, if we respond, as europeans to the osce's request for international police forces: we are not going to let the russians do this alone, or will there be a european contribution? third thing: what is the united states doing? in fact, they have a very important military base in manas, but i think that in general in central asia their influence is declining, and i think it would be important instead to agree some things with the american administration as well. then, at the donor conference on 27 july, the commissioner said: i would like to know what the european priorities are here. i believe that we must invest above all in the education and strengthening of the civil society that exists in kyrgyzstan, which is active, and this was demonstrated by the high turnout in the referendum. i would like to conclude by insisting that the european strategy of a regional approach to central asia is certainly the right one, this is a region that must be taken as a whole. i believe that in the medium term we will have to include afghanistan in this strategy, gradually, because we cannot have a policy for afghanistan on the one hand, a policy for the countries of central asia on the other hand of the other countries of central asia. this is an example of how to prevent conflict, much as haiti was for the one that was not eu-fast, with civil protection coordination of aid and emergency. we now have the legal instruments, the citizens have asked for them, and we must show that we are up to the task.
i have to say, madam president, the situation in kyrgyzstan has its origins in a completely arbitrary and probably also deliberate border mis-division a few decades ago, which affects the whole region of central asia and has created a number of minorities there. this, combined with poverty and the struggle for arable land and water, has created a powder keg which has now, unfortunately, exploded once again. i think that if we want to achieve lasting peace in the whole region, we will have to solve these central questions and, above all, the minority question. the commission's commendable speed in its action will make it necessary to continue to address these questions in the region. the states will have to protect their minorities and thus create the conditions for the members of these minorities in the region to feel safe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community. i think that the situation of disadvantaged minorities creates conditions for radicalisation and, unfortunately, this is also shown by the region, although it is still associated with religious radicalism, it is a powder keg that can unfortunately explode very quickly.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, our exchange today underlines the european union’s very deep concern as regards the situation in kyrgyzstan and the importance for us to remain closely engaged in helping the country move forward towards peace, stability, inter-ethnic reconciliation and democracy. there has been widespread agreement that our efforts should be placed firmly within the broader international context. i believe that it is important, and i trust that honourable members agree, that we continue to coordinate very closely with the united nations and the osce and, as mr rinaldi said, that we also look to the fact that justice is going to be extremely important. as honourable members know, as things stand, the exact causes of the crisis are unclear. honourable members have raised the issue of the role of the former leadership within this. honourable members have also raised their concerns about ensuring that justice is done and that we have the kind of inquiry that could be of great significance. in that context the involvement of human rights organisations is something which i pick up and take forward as an important aspect of this. as honourable members have noted too, security in the south has recently improved, but we are all aware that there is a risk of the resumption of violence and regional spillover; the potential for this still persists. i am very well aware that the inter-ethnic resentment remains very high. we have to be very vigilant and continue to discuss, debate, watch, engage and work with our partners on the ground to ensure that we are able to do everything we can to help this democracy grow and flourish. i know that the representative, pierre morrel, will do what he can to continue that work on the ground. for my part, i will do my utmost, working with commissioner georgieva to ensure that the response that we give is commensurate with this challenge. in doing that we will certainly take into account the very thoughtful views that honourable members have given tonight as we move forward.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank honourable members for the very useful direction that you have provided for us in your speeches tonight. let me touch upon four points that have been raised. first, a number of members talked about the importance of the referendum and the right judgement that was made. i would like to elaborate on that by praising baroness ashton and ambassador morrel because the eu in fact – and i learned this in bishkek – was instrumental in gathering international support to keep the date of the referendum as it was. that was the right judgement because it boosted the legitimacy of the government substantially and it also served as a magnet to refugees to return. that takes me to my second point – the situation on the other side of the border. almost the only people on the other side of the border in uzbekistan are those who needed medical attention. the vast majority of those who crossed the border did return, although – as has been said – there is still a fear of events unfolding at too critical a time. when 40 days from the massacres have passed and mourning is over, there is fear that around 15 to 20 july there could be a return of violence, as well as when the country gets ready for the elections prior to 10 october. that takes me to my third point. i would just like to share with you that president otunbayeva praised president karimov of uzbekistan for his appropriate reaction and for the support that they have received from their neighbour in suppressing violence. but, having said that, president otunbayeva continues to call on us – on europe – for support in the days ahead because of her worry that democracy may be struggling in kyrgyzstan. let me finish with a point related to priorities and how we move forward. the country will need help. it is a poor country. i used to work there in the 1990s and i can see how much progress has been made on democracy and how the country still has a long way to go on development. it is of concern that some of the donors – including some european donors – have been in the process of actually reducing their programmes. i just want to share with this house that it is the wrong time to decrease support for development in kyrgyzstan. we will of course convey from the commission to the donor community that, in our judgement, this is now the wrong time to reduce support. kyrgyzstan is to a great extent a clan society, and the pursuit of parliamentary democracy there is not going to be easy. mrs otunbayeva is a brave woman, who during her inauguration, which i was honoured to attend, turned to us and said that she would have a short run as president. she pledged to step down at the end of 2011 but promised that it would be a substantive run and asked us to help her to achieve this. i think she deserves this help and that, if we stand by her, there will be a fair chance for this country to leap forward – for its people, but also for stability in this region that would benefit all of us. (applause)
i have received six motions for resolutions. in accordance with article 110 (2) of the regulation. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 8 july 2010.
the agenda includes the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on aids/hiv in the run-up to the 18th international aids conference (18-23 july 2010 in vienna).
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that aids is still a threat to the health of not only european citizens, but also to us today more than ever. thousands upon thousands die each year, and this problem is even more acute in so-called developing communities. that is why we must not let our guard down, that is why we must certainly have more prevention, more information, more rehabilitation, but above all we must have more resources, we must ensure that these resources are used properly. we must support families, because the problem of the aids patient becomes a problem of families, and we must take action to make a series of behaviours, lifestyles, healthier and more appropriate. the goal is to have a measurable health outcome, the concrete goal of making sure that these problems over time are reduced to an ever-increasing extent.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, i am of course not only very honoured to take part in these debates, which are of particular interest to me because i have to make proposals on the reform of the common agricultural policy. as i have already said during my hearings before parliament, i believe that the relationship with the european parliament is essential if we are to achieve a reform of the common agricultural policy which is more in line with the expectations of the citizens and even better understood by the citizens of europe. i would like to thank mr george lyon very much for the report he is putting to the vote today, and also his whole team and, of course, all the members of the agri committee, who have tabled amendments which have enriched the text. i also welcome the request for this report and the desire to improve communication on the common agricultural policy and the future of agriculture in the european union. i think that, apart from its very important technical content, this report is already a very good instrument for communicating the common agricultural policy, what it has been up to now, the need for such a policy in the future and the need for a change in this policy. i also note your call for a re-design of the common agricultural policy in line not only with the lisbon treaty which sets clear objectives for the cap, but also with the europe 2020 strategy. i think that this is precisely the opportunity to adapt our common agricultural policy more closely to the current expectations of the citizens, beyond its traditional objectives of ensuring security of supply to the markets. you also advocate measures that help to improve the functioning of the food chain and the balance between the various actors in the chain, as well as the transparency of positions and the bargaining power of agricultural producers. these are elements which will be reflected not only in the reform of the cap but also in other initiatives which the commission will propose. i have also read with great interest your proposals on the future of direct payments as an instrument not only to ensure the stability of farmers' incomes but also to ensure a minimum level of supply of public goods. i think that this is a new approach to direct payments and a new justification for them, linked to the guarantee of a minimum basic income for farmers, but also to the incentive to produce public goods. i also noted the suggestion to review the criteria for the distribution of these direct payments, both on the basis of this new criterion and to ensure a more equitable distribution between the different member states, regions and categories of farmers, also taking into account the specific nature of agriculture in less-favoured regions, in difficult areas. i also note, as george lyon has said, the need to continue the market orientation of the cap, an orientation which must be made in a reasoned way in order to avoid farmers being faced with very chaotic markets. from this point of view, i think that the market orientation is entirely compatible with the improvement of the mechanisms for managing the markets, precisely to ensure that these markets can function properly without affecting, as i said, the achievement of the objectives of maintaining agriculture throughout the european territory and preserving the diversity of our farms. i have a few comments on the amendments which have been proposed and which will be discussed. i think food production is an important objective of the cap. this production is paid for directly by the markets, but public goods, which are not paid for by the markets and must be covered by a public financial contribution, must also be taken into account. in agricultural production, these two aspects can be taken into account: food production and the production of public goods, with aspects that are paid for by the markets, others that are not and that must be supported by the public budget. as regards the structure of the common agricultural policy, i have said on several occasions that in my view the common agricultural policy must have two pillars in order to obtain more clarity as to the achievement of the objectives of the cap, but also to ensure a more efficient management of the instruments at our disposal. there are instruments which have to be applied annually, and the results of which can be measured every year, but there are also certain measures which have to be applied on a multiannual basis, as part of a programming, in which case several years are needed to achieve results. in order to ensure better management of the resources and means at our disposal within the framework of the common agricultural policy, i think we need these two pillars, which must of course be complementary and whose objectives must be better defined. secondly, and most importantly, it is necessary to clarify how the measures covered by them are to be implemented. as regards conditionality, i think it has had a positive effect on direct payments. it also clearly defined the starting point for public goods paid for by public funds. of course, we can simplify the conditionality measures. the content of the directives can be made clearer not only to farmers but also to the national or regional administrations which apply and control them. that said, i think that the ecological conditionality linked to basic direct payments is also a good starting point for defining clearly the other measures that stimulate the production of public goods. as regards market measures, as i said, i think that a market orientation is necessary, but we also need to maintain safety nets and also to study new measures which can enable us to achieve the objectives of a certain price and income stability in the market. as regards the structures of small, medium and large farms, i agree, including small farms, that they must become more efficient, but we must be able to ensure that this change takes place in their specific environment, by making more use of a specific potential. so we can have a restructuring of these farms, which goes hand in hand with a shift towards markets, without going towards a single model of agriculture, so that we can maintain diversity in agriculture. i will listen carefully to your comments and observations and i can assure you, mr lyon, that i will examine very carefully the content of the report voted by parliament and will certainly refer to it in the preparation of the commission's legislative initiatives in the coming months.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the lyon report has the merit of clearly defining a set of objectives for the common agricultural policy which is much broader than in the past and in line with the european union's 2020 strategy. this agricultural policy - as the report makes clear - must remain at community level, and therefore a strong brake must be put on all those who envisage renationalization of it, national support for it. the need for adequate resources to meet the much broader objectives also indicated for the achievement of public objectives and public goods without a market is strongly emerging. the report also shows that the resources allocated to the new common agricultural policy must be in line with those which this policy has enjoyed up to now.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate mr lyon on the work he has done, the chairman and the secretariat of the committee on agriculture, and i would also like to thank commissioner cioloş because there has certainly been good cooperation between the committee on agriculture and him, and that is very important. i hope that in future too, in the next stages of the legislative process, the commission will continue to pay particular attention to producers and consumers, who have certainly been heavily penalised by the structure of the market and the recent crisis. the region from which i come, veneto, has 150,000 farms, which not only provide quality products but also provide a protection of the landscape, and we believe that this is a wealth that must not only be safeguarded but also be encouraged. but in order to continue to operate, our farmers are asking us for more protection against price volatility and for direct aid to be maintained. it is also essential to maintain the second pillar of the cap. rural development policy must be protected above all because it contributes to the development of the various local farms in europe, which must meet ever higher quality standards. in a competitive market, where they are often at a disadvantage, our farmers also call for a reduction in the bureaucracy they have to deal with, which is certainly contributing to a decline in their competitiveness, as one of the priority measures.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, mr lyon, in a context such as the present one, farms need strong support for innovation and progress. the figure of the farmer needs a real evolution: the farmer becomes an agricultural entrepreneur by introducing agricultural production into the system, thus promoting economic development. i think it is essential that the recovery of countless abandoned areas should lead to the creation of short and closed agricultural chains, that is to say, systems which link directly the cultivation of agricultural products with the sale of them. these systems can work and be widely deployed throughout the european union. in the new definition of the cap i believe that the commission should support the creation of agricultural consortia to reduce production costs and be more competitive. the commission must commit itself to establishing an adequate budget to achieve these objectives. the financing of the new cap must be linked to results, so as to avoid waste and speculation of all kinds. and in this time of crisis, many young people want to go back to farming. however, they face a number of obstacles: land is too expensive and rural development policies are difficult to manage; long waiting times and land allocation based on heritage rather than on the ideas of young entrepreneurs prevent them from reaching their potential. i think that the commission must have a pro-active and flexible approach in helping young farmers. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the challenges facing the european agricultural system in the years ahead will be enormous: meet a growing demand for food, using natural resources sustainably, while increasing environmental performance. this perspective, which emphasises the links between the agricultural sector and the production of public goods, gives agriculture a new strategic importance: the cap of the future is the answer to these great challenges facing our society today, and it will play a decisive role in responding to what is already a food emergency. so, to produce more and pollute less: this is the difficult task facing european agriculture in the years ahead. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. we are convinced that this report will help to lay the foundations for the future cap and provide the european commission with clear guidance for preparing the end-of-year communication on the future of the cap after 2013.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the cap is indispensable and will remain so for a long time to come, also in terms of employment. in europe, agricultural employment has fallen by 25% in less than ten years, with the loss of almost four million jobs. if we want solutions to the pressing unemployment problem, we cannot let the cap drift and we must invest in the cap by ensuring adequate resources to bring about sustainable growth. the new cap must therefore guarantee at least the same level of financial resources as in the past. but, commissioner, the request that parliament is making to you today is not to guarantee the same resources, the request is to increase them. the impassable line, the one we cannot cross, is to guarantee the same resources as we have today, but the demand is to increase, to increase significantly the resources for agriculture. the lyon report contains very positive elements, measures to contain price volatility, to support the supply chain, to guarantee a proper income to farmers and to guarantee the current... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the cap is one of the most important policies of the european union, and agricultural expenditure accounts for some 43% of the community budget. under article 33 of the treaty establishing the community, the community is to ensure that european consumers receive reasonable prices and farmers are paid fairly. the recent economic and financial crisis has led to a reduction in farmers' income of 12,2% on average between 2008 and 2009, a tightening of credit access conditions and an increase in the unemployment rate in rural areas. the volatility of commodity prices on agricultural markets has increased considerably and is expected to continue to increase. i therefore believe that in the future cap a minimum safety net must be provided to manage market price uncertainty and to provide rapid and effective responses to economic crises in the sector. according to fao estimates, by 2050 the world population is expected to increase from the current 6 to 9 billion and that, by doubling the demand for food, global food production will have to increase accordingly. food security will therefore be the central challenge of the agriculture of the future and the union will have the burden of continuing to guarantee it to the european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the spanish presidency has decided to sign this agreement. this decision has raised some concerns, as we have heard, and my colleagues are asking for clarification through this question as to the impact that the negotiations may have on european producers and products. i would like to stress that the opening up of free trade between the two parties allows the importation into europe of products derived from animal production which use antibiotic growth promoters which have not been sufficiently tested, genetically modified agricultural products which could jeopardize the food security of farmers. i therefore ask the commission to take an authoritative position in order to protect european quality production. it must also work to ensure that europe's high production standards are internationally recognised and that the same standards are required for all imported products. finally, i believe that the commission should take account of the concerns expressed by the various trade associations, so as to ensure that the negotiations are transparent and fair and do not harm the european economy.
on behalf of the ppe group. i would like to thank mr cadec for his work, for the excellent work he has done on such an important subject as the import arrangements for fisheries products into europe. i had, as it were, prepared my speech with regard to, for example, the issue of the attention that must be paid to imported products following the same health standards, following the same regimes, but i see that it has been dealt with by others, and so to return to it is almost useless and a waste of time. i cannot, however, fail to notice a fundamental aspect, which i seem to have understood, as it were, from the words of commissioner de gucht, from the words of my predecessor, in relation to a certain conflict of competence which exists today between the two commissioners or between the tasks which the two commissioners should have. i think this is important to stress, without any hypocrisy, because, as has been said, the fisheries sector has a fundamental role to play if we want our fishermen not to continue to reduce their working capacity because we have imposed it on them out of respect for the sea. if we want our fishermen to stop being regarded as a sort of cinderella of europe, we must pay more attention to them. so commissioner damanaki and commissioner de gucht have both expressed their intention to devote themselves fully to this, but i think it is important to have a single line of action and i think the appearance of the commissioner for fisheries, with all that this entails in parliament, is crucial for the knot to be untied and for this report to become an important prospect for the future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would ask that the words 'of all people' be deleted when the dialogue is referred to in substance, so that the final sentence: the eu is also calling for the establishment of a european union-wide network of contacts with kosovo, including the european union's regional and local authorities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my group is opposed to this.
i am therefore very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to propose a new regulation on the
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because i am convinced that the establishment of the european external action service is a fundamental step, a historic step in the development and evolution of the european union's foreign policy. i particularly welcome the passage in this report which stresses the importance of consultations between the eeas and the diplomatic services of the member states in order to ensure greater strategic coherence in the european union's external action. this would avoid duplication of effort and at the same time ensure long-term consistency in the promotion of the eu's core values and strategic interests abroad.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the lyon report because i share the rapporteur's view that a common agricultural policy is needed, one which will continue the extensive reform process that has taken place in recent years and which will also provide practical and forward-looking answers to the many challenges that will have to be faced in the years to come. i believe that the five key elements outlined in the report, namely food security, sustainability, agriculture in europe, biodiversity and environmental protection and, finally, green growth, are a good starting point for ensuring a future cap that takes account of the continuing and rapid evolution, not only in the european context, but rather in the global context.
in writing. - it is a certainty that after 11 september 2001 no human being perceives his own safety and physical safety as a trivial fact. the crux of any action to restore public confidence is therefore the protection of personal information, which must not only be guaranteed in terms of privacy but whose processing, especially in financial matters, is a significant tool in the fight against international terrorism. i therefore voted in favour of mr alvaro's report on the agreement which sets out the conditions under which, as from 1 august, the us treasury will be able to access financial data from some 8 000 institutions and banks in 200 countries, managed by the company swift. considering the due protections such as the possibility for a european citizen to make an administrative appeal enjoying reciprocal treatment with the us citizen and the tightening of the information retention times, europe-us cooperation in this case represents the just tribute of globalisation to its perverse effects.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the agreement negotiated between the european commission and the united states because i consider it a duty and a sign of great responsibility to support it. the transfer of personal data is a highly sensitive issue in europe, where there have been painful experiences of totalitarian regimes making abundant and distorted use of it. the new agreement will allow the transfer of certain banking information to the american authorities, provided that this is done in compliance with the strict rules on the protection of personal data, which we in the european parliament are committed to ensuring. such information may be consulted only if it is considered to be relevant for the purposes of counter-terrorism investigations: such access shall be conditional upon the presentation of appropriate evidence by the united states authorities. the new agreement is a victory for all the european institutions, and for our european parliament in particular: the commission is in fact responding to our calls for greater protection of the privacy of european citizens by offering them a double guarantee: full transparency for data access and use by one party and adequate redress procedures to ensure privacy protection by the other. adequate safeguards so that these two interests, security and protection of privacy, can both be met and protected.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the alvaro report because i believe that it is important to act against terrorism. terrorism is a threat and must be fought as such. the united states is a key partner in the fight against terrorism, with which we must work together to identify and cut off any funding that is the real fuel of terrorism.
in writing. the final version of the agreement meets most of parliament's requests, protecting both the security and privacy of eu citizens and providing legally binding solutions to the problems under consideration. the agreement also marks a new stage in the evolution of parliament's powers, ensuring european democratic oversight of international agreements. in addition to the improvements contained in the agreement, the council and the commission have made a legally binding commitment to establish the legal and technical framework that will allow data to be extracted from the eu territory. this commitment will ensure that the bulk data transfers to the us authorities will cease in the medium term. the establishment of a european extraction system is a major improvement, as the prolonged transfer of data in bulk is a departure from the principles on which eu legislation and practice are based.
in writing. − the creation of the external action service was unclear and controversial from the outset. we should be concerned about the possible contradictions that could arise between the activities of the future community diplomacy and those traditionally carried out by the member states. will the states lose the freedom to determine their own foreign policy? while this is not a concern for an imminent scenario, it is worth asking what the effects of establishing such a service at european level will be in the medium to long term. let me be clear: if the basic idea is to emulate the american model, where foreign policy is handled directly and exclusively by the federal government over the 50 states, then it would be better to remember that the government in washington is elected by the citizens, and its foreign policy receives every four years a democratic legitimacy that the commission and the council of the eu - and even the future foreign service - do not have. by voting against mr brok's report, i therefore express my preference for an intergovernmental european foreign policy, since, in any case, entrusting the cfsp to the community level would not guarantee the supranational nature of the choices made in such a delicate area.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the common foreign and economic policy is the necessary objective of the process of european integration. it should be remembered that the single currency was also chosen because it was thought to accelerate the process of integration that had been hampered in nice. the way in which the european external action service is organised is likely to be more a paralysing inertia than a virtuous unifying process.
in writing. - the importance of timely coordination of the different areas of the european union's foreign policy by the commission is clear. in this regard, the establishment of the european external action service (eeas) under the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy and vice-president of the commission (hr/vp) can make the european union's external action more effective on the world stage, in particular in order to avoid inconsistencies and duplication of efforts and to ensure long-term coherence in promoting the european union's core values and strategic interests abroad.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr lunacek's report highlights the limited progress made by the country and i believe that the problems highlighted make its accession to the eu even less plausible, which would thus accentuate the heterogeneous character that the latest accessions are helping to shape. as i have said on the question of albania's integration into the eu, i believe that we are at a crossroads: europe must choose whether it will be limited to becoming an entity based on mere geographical criteria or whether it will aspire to become more organic, coherent and composed of states which, in their diversity, can nevertheless display common characteristics and are consistent with the european ideal. the fact that five member states do not recognise kosovo's sovereignty remains an obstacle which makes kosovo's accession to europe a paradox at the moment. for these reasons, i do not support mr lunacek's report.
in writing. - this report is a demonstration of what european propaganda can do when it ignores the mistakes of the past; the work of mr chountis does indeed highlight the internal problems of albania, but at the same time it almost seems to tell us that we are obliged to welcome the balkan states into the union, as if this were written in the book of destiny and no one could oppose its unfolding. i don't agree with that at all. albania today has very obvious problems of internal political stability, and a very high level of corruption. its entry would pose additional problems to those which the union itself has had to face and still has to face today following a major enlargement which has almost doubled the number of member states. there is no reason, except the power-hungry and centralistic eu bureaucracies, to continue on the path towards albania's eu membership; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are faced with the unfortunate situation where, in discussing a real and serious problem (in this case the fight against hiv), arguments are introduced which, by proposing unfair solutions to the right to life, prevent a vote in favour. the use of the language "sexual and reproductive health" has now become the way to persuade parliaments to promote abortion. we can't let them fool us. everyone, myself first, must promote sexual and reproductive health, but when the words indicate a different and even opposite reality (the killing of a human being understood as a woman's right to freedom) it becomes necessary to unmask the deception. abortion is a real tragedy in the world and in our europe too! my vote against the resolution is not to oppose the all-out effort to combat aids, but to oppose the method and content i have indicated.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the common agricultural policy (cap) is one of the most important policies of the european union and, following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the reform of the cap, like any new agricultural legislation, cannot be adopted without parliament's agreement. farmers produce goods for the benefit of society as a whole, but the common agricultural policy is not just about farmers, because there is a link between agriculture, the environment, biodiversity, climate change and the sustainable management of natural resources such as water and land. there is also a clear link between agriculture and the proper economic and social development of the eu's vast rural areas; it also provides the food we need to live. this first resolution on the future of the cap is the contribution of us meps to the debate on how to reform the cap in conjunction with the new multiannual budget starting in 2013 and on how to establish the fundamental principles that should guide the process of building a new common agricultural policy. with this vote, parliament put the spotlight on how to tackle new challenges such as the fight against climate change, food security, food quality, the competitiveness of businesses and farmers' incomes.
in writing. − after the 2007-2013 programming period, the new common agricultural policy will have to face a very important challenge for our farmers: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to use the same financial resources as in the past, by distributing them equally between the old and new member states on the basis not only of the number of hectares but also of other objective evaluation criteria. i voted in favour of mr lyon's report because i fully support his intention to regionalise and maintain coupled aid for vulnerable agricultural areas and sectors. i also believe in the importance of the policy of promoting geographical indications, simplification, compliance with community standards by imports from third countries and strengthening the position of the various actors in the food chain.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that european agriculture needs a common policy that continues to be such in order to avoid the inevitable disparities between the member states and to ensure that the cap is fairly financed entirely from the european budget. i therefore voted against the renationalisation of the cap, as the new common agricultural policy will need adequate funding in order to be able to better support this policy in line with the main challenges that this sector, which is crucial for the eu's food security, will have to face in the coming years. food safety is a consumer right which must be protected alongside the protection of 'second generation' public goods such as the environment, land use planning and animal welfare.
in writing. − the 2009 crisis showed the weakness of the system of measures to support the agricultural sector. the effects were felt on farmers' incomes, which were reduced by 12% on revenues that normally already amount to around 50% of the average revenues of the european union. the importance of the sector, which employs some 30 million people, must be matched by strategic action for the period after 2013, starting with the strengthening of the common policy, an appropriate budgetary policy and maintaining the budget, taking into account the many beneficial effects of agriculture on the environment, health and climate change. it is important to ensure that consumers receive fair prices and that farmers receive a fair income through targeted aid. agriculture must play a greater role in the 2020 strategy and define actions for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. market instability increases with the increase in product safety and sustainability assurance because this puts eu producers at a competitive disadvantage compared to imports. it is becoming difficult to ensure reasonable prices for consumers and fair remuneration if stricter rules are not introduced to ensure that the principle of community preference is respected.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with the approach and the structure of mr lyon's report. this own-initiative report is an important basis for the guidelines which the european parliament intends to follow for future agriculture, pending the commission's communication which is due at the end of the year. for the first time, parliament has therefore agreed on a way forward for a constructive dialogue on the content and priorities of the competitiveness of agri-food production and the sustainable development of rural areas. the challenges facing european agriculture are numerous and have a significant impact on the economies of many member states, but they are also the subject of debate, in terms of the budget to be allocated to the european union, in order to make these very challenges an opportunity for growth in the agricultural sector and development for many european agricultural entrepreneurs.
in writing. - mr president, the fisheries sector is a strategic resource within the eu for supplying the population and is also a major contributor to local development, employment and the preservation of the cultural traditions of coastal communities. unfortunately, we have seen a gradual decline in production in recent years, partly as a result of certain community measures to protect the marine ecosystem, such as the mediterranean regulation which aims to make fishing more sustainable, but which has actually brought the whole sector to its knees. our fishermen are obliged to fish less, but demand is increasing and so are imports from third countries. to avoid unfair competition and to protect consumers, imported products must comply with the same rules as community products. imports often offer products at lower prices, but also of lower quality and with elements of uncertainty in terms of safety. it is therefore important to strengthen fair, transparent and sustainable trade in the sector, including the need to introduce strict certification and labelling criteria in relation to the quality and traceability of fishery and aquaculture products.
in writing. - i shall be voting in favour of the report by mr codec. at a historical moment such as the quota period, i consider the question of the import regime for fishery and aquaculture products to be crucial, that is, the problem of defining the conditions under which products from outside the eu are allowed into the single market. given that 60% of domestic demand is now met by exports and that this is expected to increase sharply by 2030, europe needs to provide answers to the questions and legitimate concerns of industry. i therefore agree with the view of mr cadec: it is necessary to investigate and monitor the evolution of community policy in this field so that it does not lead to disparities in treatment between producers in the member states and those in third countries.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, time to make up for past undervaluations and delays. fisheries are a key sector of our economic and social system and must be treated as such. in view of the reform of the common fisheries policy, we have a duty to make firm decisions to guarantee incomes, stability of the markets and better marketing of products, including aquaculture. and to protect consumers by paying greater attention to food safety aspects. that is why i voted for this resolution which, in view of the negative impact of market liberalisation on local economies, stresses the strategic importance of reasonable customs protection. we must put a stop to competition from low-cost imports from outside the eu, which often do not meet environmental, social, health and quality standards. we also need to introduce strict certification and labelling criteria in relation to the traceability of products, in order to inform consumers about the geographical origin, the production conditions, the catch and, above all, the quality of the products on sale. finally, i would like to stress that in a market which is largely dependent on imports, withdrawals from the market aimed at destroying the product are no longer justifiable. the resulting savings could be made available to the programmes of producer organisations.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i supported the resolution on the import regime for fishery and aquaculture products into the eu with a view to reforming the cfp, as i believe that it is essential to have a framework adapted to the needs of the sector. the european union is the world's largest market for fishery products and it is well known that production is not sufficient to meet domestic demand on its own. it is therefore a priority to ensure that imports from third countries meet the environmental, health, social and quality standards imposed by the eu, in order to avoid unfair competition from importing countries through lower-priced and lower-quality products. the report approved by this house today also calls for stricter and more transparent criteria to be applied to the quality, traceability and labelling of fishery products.
in writing. − the issue of the import regime for fishery and aquaculture products (fap), and in particular the conditions under which products from outside the eu are allowed to enter the union as a complement to, or in competition with, products from european fisheries and aquaculture, is undoubtedly a priority issue, essential in any analysis of these specific sectors of the european economy. the regulation of this matter is essential in a context where the rate of consumption coverage through community production is today very low, with a rate of dependence on imports of over 60%.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i turn to my colleague mrs angelilli and the other signatories. i simply wanted to say that you have said wise and authoritative things about the case of the young sakineh, but one thing is the words for which there was a beautiful applause, another thing is an official statement of the european parliament, and we must do it as soon as possible because the fate and destiny of this woman depend on the decisions that will be taken in the next few hours. the voices calling for a change of decision are increasing, but this chorus cannot fail to include the authoritative voice of the european parliament, and that is why i am making the urgent request to you and to the whole house to bring forward the debate which was scheduled for thursday afternoon.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking with the intention of supporting this request, in the knowledge that a europe which plays a leading role in the theatre of peace and war is a europe which is able to make itself felt at the right moment. we are aware that we are in many ways overriding the terms of parliament's agenda, but at the same time we believe that it is imperative that we do what the circumstances require. i therefore support the request made by my colleagues and hope that all others will do the same.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not want to reopen the debate on attendance tomorrow, but also, following the speech by mr daul, as the calendar or the agenda can be changed by the house, i ask that this house vote on the decision of the conference of presidents to change it if necessary.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that we must first of all ask ourselves what we want as europe, what we are asking for as europe, what commitments we intend to make in the face of the serious economic and financial crisis, the depression we have experienced in the world, the difficult recovery we are facing. i believe that a free trade agreement at a time of such great difficulty for multilateral relations, at a time of stagnation in the doha negotiations, should meet at least two major requirements: the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a report on the implementation of the community's action programme for the environment, which will be presented to the council in the near future. this treaty is devoid of all that, it does not take the slightest account of what the world context is, whether it is here or there, it is simply a free trade agreement constructed in a very clever way, it is an important conceptual elaboration, it can certainly open up useful scenarios in a world that is completely regulated, in a world where reciprocity, common rules, common quality standards are the order of the day. but it's not. we see that while the european manufacturing industry, which should be the basis for more development, more employment and more jobs, is being punished, the financial services sectors are once again being rewarded. the positive aspects of this treaty have very little effect on gdp growth, at best we will be at 0.03 per cent. he doesn 't feel the need . even the united states, in the face of a cautious opening by president obama, is now holding back under pressure from at least 100 majority deputies, who have called this type of agreement, similar to the one we are about to sign, "job killing". the ratification process in korea is very slow, there is no guarantee of either environmental or social standards, and we nevertheless want to proceed very quickly with ratification. we are asking for something, however, which we have already asked for in the preliminary stages and which we have asked for in the vote we have already taken: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are a bit like the ryongs, the dragons of korean mythology, who are gentle, kind, but very determined dragons, aware that we are also the european institution directly elected by our citizens, and that is why we are asking for an effective safeguard clause. the european parliament is prepared to conclude the agreement at first reading, but only if there are concrete proposals which take account of the interests of european workers and industries, and above all of the institutional prerogatives of this institution. the commission has already made six requests, some of which have already been made by other colleagues. first of all: no provisional application until the safeguard regulation is adopted and the european parliament has given its consent to the agreement. secondly: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. third, and more importantly: the role of the european parliament in the procedures; right to request the inquiry we have of course asked to add industry to this right right to have all the information, access to the online platform. fourth: the comitology in the application of the regulation; the council's role cannot be higher than that of the european parliament. we insist on a strong role for the european parliament with an advisory procedure and a veto in cases where the committee, after an inquiry, decides not to impose measures. fifth: the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas. finally, sixth: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the environmental performance of the european union. we are absolutely in favour of the free trade agreement and free trade agreements which are instruments of stability and peace, but no one should be naive about the content, nor can the council ignore the role of parliament.
thanks to you, we're taking note.
the next item is the report by mr josé bové, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on fair incomes for farmers: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's food safety and consumer protection legislation and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's food safety and consumer protection legislation.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report on fair incomes for farmers, adopted by the committee on agriculture and rural development on 28 june, is an important step towards promoting a better functioning of the agri-food chain in europe. this report is therefore an important step forward in view of the serious crisis which has affected various sectors of the agricultural sector for some time and which is now putting thousands of businesses at risk. the report also points to the need for rapid action to ensure price transparency, fair competition on the markets, and strong action to eliminate abuses of power in the purchasing and bargaining phases and global speculation in raw materials. i believe that not only is it necessary to reorganise the supply chain, with the agricultural producer at its centre, to whom a proper role must be given in connection with the innovation of new forms of agricultural product markets, but also to rationalise the food chain in order to reduce the environmental impact of food transport and to promote the knowledge and marketing of products with high territorial value. i personally fully agree with what the committee on agriculture and rural development of the european parliament has approved and i will also vote in accordance with what the committee has voted, as some of my colleagues have already announced. i would like to stress two points which the report highlights. the first concerns the revision of the competition rules for the benefit of producers of products with a high territorial value. the second is an invitation to the commission to propose instruments to support and promote food chains run by farmers, in order to reduce intermediaries and to give producers an advantage in marketing their products.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we support this report because it contains proposals already put forward by the lega nord, in particular on price transparency linked to the recognition of fair payment of products to farmers, the creation of zero-kilometre food chains, promoting the maintenance of the diversity of territorial products and the quality of products, and increasing the development of the local economy. the indication of the cost of the product at the origin would make the consumer aware of the impact of the change of hands on the final price and would encourage him to choose the short chain, thus favouring local producers. to combat the volatility of the agricultural market, it is essential to prohibit the sale of agricultural products below the purchase price and to increase controls on products entering the european market, as it is often - unfortunately - that european farmers comply with community rules and non-european farmers do not follow them at all. the cost of this is always borne by our farmers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the first objective of the cap has always been to guarantee fair incomes for farmers and i believe that we must continue along this path. the commission's examination has revealed discrepancies with the initial principle which we cannot ignore. our farmers are convinced that their work is economically undervalued. the transition from the first to the second stage of the supply chain in which they are now active is no longer considered to be a determining factor in determining the final price. it is necessary to control fluctuations in the prices of primary goods which would only and exclusively harm the consumer. i think it is useful to provide for a review of the way the chain is passed through in order to avoid an increase in the price of the good, which is not consistent with a correct distribution of the cost of the work done. we must ensure that the asymmetrical level between the cost of the product in the first and the last stage is rising, thus creating a detriment for the consumer. the market would be at risk of selling more expensive products which would not reflect an increase in quality.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as my colleague the high representative/vice-president of the commission, catherine ashton, cannot be present, i would like to make the following statements in consultation with her and on behalf of the commission. the human rights situation in iran is a matter of extreme concern. in recent months, the high representative/vice-president of the commission, catherine ashton, and her services have repeatedly spoken out about human rights violations in the country. many of you have done the same. it is essential that we continue to denounce these inhuman practices, which are unfortunately still in force in iran. a european union statement, issued last june, called on iran to respect freedom of expression, respect the right to a fair trial and stop all discrimination against religious and ethnic minorities as well as against women. the death penalty and the rights of minorities were the subject of many other european union statements this year. the european union does not demand more from iran than from any other country. we simply call on the iranian authorities, both in public statements and in the confidential approaches of diplomatic representations, to respect the rights of citizens, as the iranian authorities have committed themselves to do under the international covenant on civil and political rights and other human rights treaties. my colleague, the high representative/vice-president of the commission, catherine ashton, and her official representatives in brussels and tehran have paid the utmost attention to the situation of mrs sakineh mohammadi-ashtiani. on 6 july, the high representative/vice-president issued a statement clearly calling on the iranian authorities to review the case of ms mohammadi-ashtiani and several others, whose death sentences were handed down in clear violation of international standards, in a country where the death penalty unfortunately remains legal. the matter was also raised through diplomatic channels with the iranian authorities. the very idea of stoning is so barbaric that our condemnation must remain total and be reaffirmed with the utmost firmness until such practices are finally abolished. the european union also discussed directly with the iranian government the case of ms zahra bahrami, whose arrest is linked to the disturbances during the ashura celebrations in december 2009. the european union has insisted that ms bahrami, an iranian and dutch citizen, should be given a fair, open and transparent trial. as a european citizen, ms bahrami must also be able to benefit fully from consular and legal assistance. the high representative will continue to follow the case of ms bahrami very closely, in collaboration with the diplomatic representatives of the european union in tehran. let me assure you that the european union and its member states will continue to condemn the human rights violations in iran as long as they persist, whether through bilateral contacts, public statements or in the framework of multilateral contacts.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, torture, flogging, stoning, inhuman practices, which are barbaric and abhorrent and which brutally violate the most fundamental human rights. there are no words to comment on this violence, except the words of sakineh herself. i read the words of one of his letters: "often at night", says sakineh, "before i go to sleep, i ask myself: but why are they preparing to throw stones at me, to aim at my face and hands?" and then, his appeal: "tell the whole world i'm afraid to die, help me stay alive". the european parliament must heed this desperate cry. sakineh must not be left alone, she must become our flag, the flag of human rights in iran. the international community must demand that this summary execution be stopped. we must have the courage to say that we are prepared to put diplomatic relations in crisis, that we cannot make concessions on human rights, that those who remain silent are complicit. we, free men and women, must give courage and strength to the iranian public opinion, which is in disagreement with the regime and which desperately needs our support and our intransigence, by condemning it. to that regime, which is based on fear, repression, violation of freedoms and fundamental rights, we, from this house, must say loud and clear that we are all sakineh.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i also join my voice to all those who are calling for this barbaric stoning for adultery not to be perpetrated, for human rights to be respected for sakineh and all those women, but also for those men, on the same basis. i would like to stress something that i have only heard mentioned by the last speaker: the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of democratization, and it is not only the european parliament that has been involved in the process of democratization, but also the european parliament.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank this parliament for having accepted almost unanimously the advance discussion of this important point. the request, which i made together with my colleague mrs angelilli and which has been signed by many of my colleagues in this house, is based on the hope of saving a life: every day for sakineh could be her last, and we can't afford to waste any more time. this sentence must not be carried out because it is unacceptable. but the demand goes further, because this woman's story is emblematic of many other stories of iranian women, and also of men and young people. the mobilization for sakineh must be only the beginning of a new step in relations with iran. the iranian regime violates fundamental rights, tramples on women's freedoms in particular and, above all, ignores the calls of the international community. this parliament has already passed resolutions on this subject, two of them in the last year alone. the high representative of the union for foreign affairs made two statements in june and july of this year. the un general assembly has repeatedly adopted resolutions requiring moratoriums on executions pending the abolition of the death penalty. consider that iran sits at the un table for the protection of women's rights. the attitude of the iranian government seems to be "if you want to deal with us, you have to accept us as we are", and we cannot accept that. the promotion of human rights is one of the pillars of the union's foreign policy, which calls us to assume responsibility. the behaviour we adopt in relation to such events can also undermine the integration process. all the national governments have mobilized and we must join them. iranian youths, in a demonstration that took place in italy, said "we don't believe that much can be achieved; one life will be saved, but iran will not be saved". we must show with severe sanctions that this mobilization is only the first step, that we will go ahead and have no further relations with iran, even to the point of an embargo.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with this debate - which i sincerely hoped would be a little more followed because it deserves much more participation - the european parliament wants to join its voice to that of the many who have mobilized in recent days at international level against the tragic death sentence by stoning of sakineh ashtiani and after the appeal of her son saïd and to save the many other women who have been unjustly sentenced to death or detained, such as zahra bahrami, by summary trials in iran. in the age of globalisation it is even more evident that human rights and women's rights are indivisible and that if a woman dies after being tortured by stoning, our consciences and our freedoms will be stoned with her. in our resolution we strongly call on the high representative of the european union, catherine ashton, and also on the commissioner for human rights, vivian reding, - two influential women - to take all the necessary steps without further delay with the iranian government and in international fora to ensure that sakineh's death sentence is not carried out, that zahra is released, that the barbaric practice of stoning is abandoned and that the battle for a moratorium on the death penalty and also for support for the democratic opposition in iran is given a new impetus. we, the italian members of the s&d group, together with all our colleagues, have called for a torchlight display to take place tomorrow evening here in the courtyard of the european parliament in strasbourg, which we have entitled 'a light for the life of sakineh', and we ask all our colleagues to take part in it so that this tragic event, so emblematic, will not be overshadowed and the iranian people and the iranian opposition will not be left alone. we call for stronger action by the union because we believe that the credibility and identity of the european union are at stake when it comes to the defence of human rights here and in the world.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent days many representatives of civil society, political leaders, intellectuals, ngos and the catholic church have been mobilizing for the release of sakineh, a 42-year-old iranian mother sentenced to death by stoning for adultery. this conviction was based on a confession extracted after a punishment of 99 lashes. the death penalty of stoning can be considered a form of torture in that the victim must be buried so that only the head is raised from the ground. the stones that can be thrown at her must be sharp and cutting, but not such as to be capable of instantaneous death, and the torture in the pre-agonized, conscious state must not be less than 20 minutes. in recent years hundreds of women of all ages have been stoned to death in iran for the crime of adultery, and at least 40 more women are currently imprisoned awaiting the same fate. i think it is essential that the european parliament should make its voice heard against this barbarism.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, defending sakineh means defending life, the right to life, and therefore to live. the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, and indeed all the constitutional charters of our countries, include among their principles the inviolable rights of the individual, first and foremost the right to dignity and life. our fight must not be for one individual, but for all human beings who are deprived of their lives in every part of the world for whatever reason. no reason, tradition, religion, law or authority can dispose and i say dispose of an individual's life. we need to take strong, but also decisive action against countries which authorise and apply the death penalty, as well as all serious violations of human rights. europe must be decisive in this, it must take a firm stand, it must insist that these rights be respected in its diplomatic and commercial relations. sakineh wouldn't be the first victim. that's enough, that's enough.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate is necessary today so that our assembly can join the great international mobilization under way to stop the executions in iran, in particular the stoning of the young sakineh. as is often the case, however, debates of this kind always come to a head, just in time to avoid executions or other cases of serious human rights violations. instead, we should think about what kind of actions we can take to eliminate the root causes of human rights violations in the world, causes that are called dictatorships, theocracies, islamic radicalism, totalitarianisms. as regards the case of iran in particular, i hope that none of us will be under the illusion that our action, the action of the european parliament in the field of relations with iran, can be limited to the resolutions we vote for, however just and acceptable they may be. we cannot tolerate theocrats in tehran and the fanatics who rule that country coming to this parliament, as happened a couple of months ago, to give us lessons in democracy. our action must be an incentive for the eu to deal with the issue of relations with tehran with firmness, without ambiguity and indecision.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr portas, on behalf of the commission, for the excellent work he has done in drawing up this very comprehensive report and for his collaboration with the rapporteurs of the other committees responsible for delivering opinions. this report is timely because it can be easily integrated into the work the commission is now undertaking to meet two deadlines. first, the so-called crisis derogation allowing the globalisation adjustment fund to provide support to workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis and to provide 65% co-financing expires at the end of 2011. we must consider whether it is necessary to extend this derogation or to return to a 50% co-financing rate for trade-related redundancies. the second deadline is the end of 2013, when the egf regulation will have to be revised. in this respect, one of the key issues will be whether or not this fund should be integrated into the next multiannual financial framework. we are pleased to note that mr portas' report supports the reasons for the creation of this fund and stresses the need to maintain this instrument. the report actually proposes that a permanent instrument be one of the options envisaged for the future and asks the commission to submit a proposal to that effect. mr portas proposes that the mid-term review planned for 2011 be brought forward and completed by 30 june 2011. this is a problem in the light of the amended egf regulation, as reports on the first cases approved after the adoption of the amended regulation will only be available at the beginning of november 2011. we have, of course, an earlier final report which we can use to review the unchanged criteria of the regulation, such as the success rate of the actions under the fund, a comparative analysis of these measures, the procedures for consulting the social partners and the analysis of the impact of the fund on the beneficiaries. the report notes that implementation has been rather modest to date. financial contribution was approved for only 27 cases and very few sectors are represented. nine member states did not submit any applications. only 80 million euros have been used out of the 1.5 billion that could be mobilised. the commission requested reimbursement of almost 40% of the amounts in respect of the first eleven applications. i would like to stress, as the report does, that these figures relate only to applications approved under the original regulation and that, as the report rightly points out, the amendment of the regulation has led to a considerable increase in the number of applications for assistance to this fund, both in terms of targeted workers and budget. the report rightly calls for improvements, in particular reducing the time between redundancies and the date of payment of the contribution to the fund. the commission is committed to speeding up and simplifying these procedures, but some of these improvements will require better organisation by all the actors involved: the commission, the member states and the budgetary authority. close coordination between the commission and the european parliament, particularly on timetable matters, should help to reduce some of these delays. member states should be encouraged to submit applications as soon as redundancies are announced. the commission, for its part, should provide more information and advice to the member states and set itself a deadline of three to four months for its own evaluation. we take note of the request to draw up a proposal to extend the crisis derogation until the end of the multiannual financial framework. i agree that, for the period after 2013, the issue of the european globalisation adjustment fund should be considered in the general context of the negotiations on the next financial and multiannual framework and that the establishment of a permanent fund should be one of the options to be considered. the report is rich in ideas and suggestions and will make a useful contribution to the preparation of the new regulation. the commission has also planned a series of consultation meetings with member states and other stakeholders. i am sure that the rapporteur, as well as the other members of the european parliament, will contribute to these consultations, the aim being that the fund may be improved and made even more effective in the future as an instrument which shows european solidarity towards workers who are made redundant.
in writing. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, globalisation is an important opportunity for us and our children, but it is also a scary one, creating distributions of wealth that are harder to control and manage fairly. moving beyond our borders and putting our identities at stake requires the building of stronger cultures within which to continue to foster mutual respect and genuine understanding. the first objects of our understanding must include the interests of those families who have suddenly found themselves without an income because of increasingly difficult economic conditions. the european globalisation adjustment fund must be a response to these households and an effective instrument for the future economic development of the union. in the midst of the economic crisis we cannot afford to be too rigid in the instruments of implementation, which our citizens, even before our policies, would inevitably suffer. the very fact that we still have a large stock of projects submitted and never implemented should make us reflect on the extent to which our programmes and our permanent funds can be self-sufficient and therefore seriously consider whether the european globalisation adjustment fund should be added to the european social fund as a permanent instrument for european intervention in the field of employment.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the interconnection of trade registers is a useful project to increase the transparency of economic actors, restore confidence and promote access for smes to the single market. i congratulate mr lechner and the committee on legal affairs on this report. our views are broadly in agreement. the commission will present legislative proposals no later than early 2001 which will no doubt take account of your conclusions. the financial and economic crisis has highlighted the importance of transparency in financial markets and beyond. for citizens to have confidence, they need access to reliable and up-to-date official information on companies. trade registers play a key role in this respect by recording information on companies and making it available to the public. however, while it is easy to access this information in the member states where a company is registered, it is often very difficult, for technical or linguistic reasons, to access the same information from another member state. the interconnection of trade registers will therefore provide small and medium-sized enterprises, consumers and employees with a supplementary and necessary information tool. the following are some thoughts on some aspects of mr lechner's report. i note your concern about the additional administrative burden that might result from the interconnection of these registers. i can assure you that we are not planning to impose any new costs, direct or indirect, on businesses. i also share your wish that the participation of all member states in the cooperation mechanism should be made compulsory. such a mechanism will only make sense if it is supported by all the member states. as regards cooperation in the context of regular updating of information on foreign subsidiaries, the commission intends to propose such a mechanism in the form of legislation, in which the member states would be obliged to participate. this is probably a missing link in the internal market. you also recommend that a single point of access to information be set up. we share the objective of accessibility to data provided by the national registers. consumers, workers, small and mediumsized enterprises and national administrations in other member states must be able to access these services without any obstacles. in the same spirit of accessibility, we want to offer information in all the official languages of the union. this is a prerequisite for achieving our objective of bringing the internal market closer to the citizens. in addition, users of registers should be clearly informed of the scope and the different consequences of the national information contained in the register, which may vary considerably from one country to another. as regards data quality, it is clear that the information provided in the context of interconnection must be reliable, up-to-date and accessible. that is a strong message from you and one which is welcomed by the commission. i can assure you that any initiative by the commission will respect the protection of personal and commercial data. ladies and gentlemen, the lechner report demonstrates the level of commitment of parliament to help implement better interconnection of business registers for the benefit of consumers, businesses and their workers. this project will strengthen the internal market. the commission welcomes this and looks forward to the adoption of the report in plenary.
in writing. the interconnection of business registers is an essential prerequisite for promoting the integration of the economic area within the eu and for strengthening legal certainty for businesses and consumers. the report by mr lechner makes a full statement on the priority actions which are essential to increase legal certainty and transparency in crossborder economic activities. first, it is essential that the interconnection of registers and access to data take place in a single context. to this end, it will be necessary to strengthen and develop the potential offered by the brite interconnection project, so as to allow the establishment of a single portal, which will allow all citizens to access information from european companies. secondly, it will be essential to ensure that all member states participate as soon as possible, taking into account the integration of business registers which will be compulsory for all member states. this is because the success of any project aimed at the harmonious development of the internal market requires the participation of all the parties concerned, so that it can be made binding as soon as the technical criteria have been refined.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, equality is the guiding principle of chapter three of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. article 21 is after equality before the law the rule that best clarifies the terms of this principle: equal treatment, equal opportunities, regardless of gender, race, colour or ethnicity. protection against discrimination on grounds of gender and origin must be ensured at all levels for all individuals, particularly women, whether they are citizens of europe or not. equality, to be such, must not create any subgroup of differentiated access to social life, but must guarantee it to all. the role of research is growing. research becomes an instrument for implementing european gender policies, which must involve the european institute, as well as universities and national institutes, especially at the data census stage. i would like to conclude by recalling the important role played by intercultural mediators.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur points out the double discrimination suffered by women, especially the elderly. i would stress how we speak of a triple discrimination: women, single, old people. this report deals with important issues, starting with the world of work and the re-employment of this workforce of older people, especially women. these women should be seen as a positive workforce, with experience and the ability to train younger people. in short, a resource which is necessary for the growth of europe as a whole and for the achievement of the objectives set, a resource which we must guarantee a life of dignity and a complete and concrete social health care, a resource which must be defended in our ageing society, but which must be able to age.
president of the council. - mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the council presidency, i would also like to welcome the president of the commission's speech on the state of the union. this important talk comes at the right time. it is a way of looking at all the european subjects again after a long institutional transition and after the economic and financial crisis which the union has been going through. i have noted, mr president, the commission's forward-looking, ambitious approach, which aims to respond to the challenges of the moment and also - we have spoken of this morning - to defend the values of the union. the five themes identified by the president of the commission (getting out of the crisis and improving economic governance; returning to growth through the structural reforms of the europe 2020 strategy; implementing the stockholm programme to strengthen the area of freedom, justice and internal security; modernising the union's budget and, finally, enabling europe to take its place on the international scene) are fully in line with the priorities of the trio but also with the priorities, of course, of the belgian presidency, presented by the prime minister to this assembly last july. but these objectives will take time to achieve and will therefore require the efforts of several presidencies. the presidency and the council will study your speech, mr president, and the accompanying working document in detail. but at this point, let me make two points. firstly, what our citizens expect from our institutions is concrete achievements, which will enable them to look to the future with greater serenity. effective financial supervision and regulation, an affordable and competitive community patent, and a functioning european diplomatic service are among the urgent achievements on which our three institutions will be judged. secondly, let me stress that only a collective, community-style work of our institutions (european parliament, commission, council, president of the european council and high representative for external relations) will make such achievements possible and perhaps also combat the growing euroscepticism in the member states. that is why the belgian presidency has proposed, mr president of parliament, to strengthen cooperation with the european parliament on the implementation of the priorities of the moment. regular meetings at both administrative and political level are scheduled to intensify our cooperation. it is in this spirit that the presidency intends to continue its work over the next four months.
mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that many governments spend the night undoing what the commission does by day. it is therefore important that the commission should contribute to a correct interpretation of the principle of subsidiarity by means of appropriate reflection, so that it does not become an excuse for stalling and limiting the progress of the lisbon treaty. i would like to say to my liberal and socialist colleagues: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to take action against the democratic governments for their racist policies, because if you really believe what you say and believe that the commission is complicit in or weak in these policies, why do you not ask the commissioners of liberal and socialist origin to resign? finally, a suggestion to president buzek: we are adopting the same sanction against absent members as the european commission will certainly adopt against the absence of vice-president ashton.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr barroso, you made a speech which in italy we would have called 'democratic', which means that it could have been acceptable to everyone. there are four million jobs available in europe? well, let us give it to our unemployed, who, as you know, number in the tens of millions, creating a european labour market. are we getting out of the crisis? well, we help businesses and workers, with subsidies for new economic growth and with adequate wages and pensions, we create a european energy market. is europe getting old? mal, we help traditional families, men and women, to have children with benefits and services. boosting the fight against climate change? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. protecting the rights of minorities? that is correct, but when those belonging to those minorities do not respect our laws, it is right that they be sent back to their country of origin. we cannot think of becoming the rallying point for the world's desperate people, we must help them at home.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for details of the vote: see minutes)
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to reassure everyone that the debate will be brief. it is the first agreement between the european union and japan, and therefore has a not insignificant symbolic value. this is an important activity, which is certainly a defining moment in the fight against organized crime. a balance has been struck between the most disparate needs, which allows the product to be considered as being absolutely in line with expectations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
member of the commission. − mr president, as commissioner de gucht recalled yesterday, the commission welcomes the fruitful cooperation with parliament on this file. today’s vote is only on the amendments, and not on the whole legislative proposal, so as to bring the points of view closer and possibly reach an agreement at first reading. a first trialogue took place on 30 august and the next is foreseen for around 22 september. at this stage, the commission does not wish to express itself publicly, in order to allow the trialogues to fully play their role. the commission will take its stand, express itself and make commitments, if necessary, at the time of the first reading vote.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
mr president, i wanted to make sure that the reservation to speak with explanations of vote on two reports would be made. these are the binev report and the winkler report. since we are starting with reports which are consecutive, i would like to have confirmation that i will be given the floor otherwise... (the president informs the speaker that, in accordance with rule 170 (3) of the rules of procedure, it will not be possible to take a vote on the two reports mentioned). so there will be no explanation of vote on these two reports.
mr president, i thank you and i apologize. i would like to stress in this speech how the progressive erosion of the incomes of european farmers, at the expense of the growing profit margins of the agro-industrial chain, is creating a worrying economic marginalization of those working in the agricultural sector, with the consequent abandonment of the same activities. a change of course is therefore necessary, which the european commission itself recognises and which the report for consideration and approval by the house this morning - to which i wish to express my support - underlines with ample reasons and suggestions also of a legislative and sectoral nature. it is necessary to combat global speculation in raw materials and to guarantee security of supply. in addition, better price transparency must be ensured, which not only gives farmers justice and dignity, but also corrects the existing strong imbalances in the level of bargaining power and avoids abuses between the different operators. agriculture must be re-affirmed as the sector of economic and social stability and regain its power in the commercial context of the european union and in the globalised world.
mr president, as the shadow rapporteur for this own-initiative report for the ppe group, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the important work he has done in the opening, especially in collaboration with all the political groups. i believe that this report contains important ideas for improving the fund in view of its mid-term review. these proposals for implementation are in line with the findings of the evaluation of cases which i examined in 2010 in the committee on budgets and are designed to simplify and speed up procedures relating to the fund. in view of the particularly difficult situation for european businesses and the increasing number of requests for support from member states, i considered it essential to stress in the report the need to extend the fund's coverage until 2013 for workers made redundant as a result of the economic crisis. in conclusion: the european institutions need to send a strong signal to stimulate economic recovery and the egf is an important message to our citizens.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because it contains very important statements of principle. first of all, that aging, normally perceived negatively, is an economic and social resource that we draw upon without any recognition. that economic crises have a more significant impact on women, and in particular on older women; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. this report proposes an important method of helping to bring about the europe of the peoples, and therefore the europe of the people, of all the people. the method consists of creating an approach to defining studies, statistics and data based on the awareness that gender inequality in old age results from the accumulation of gender-based disparities over the whole life course, and also of creating an approach to ageing policies that takes into account the whole life course and interconnections between gender and age. the resolution calls for three fundamental and important things: a mechanism ensuring the accumulation of pension rights, including during periods of care work, taking into account the gender dimension in the reform of pension systems and adjustment of the retirement age, and providing for remuneration for care. this is very important given what is being done in the individual member states and in italy in particular to bring national pension systems into line with european requirements. these are the real european indications.
mr. president, it's just you and me and a few others. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it important for the relationship between the responsibilities of politicians and the electorate, and all this can be a central element of our representative democracy. i believe that this is an important prerequisite for the full and informed democratic participation of citizens in the process of european union integration. unfortunately, the last european elections also showed a strong tendency towards abstentionism, as is the case to a large extent in all european countries - and not just within europe - clearly demonstrating how poorly informed citizens are about european policies and issues and how unfortunately they feel distant from our institution. the treaty of lisbon introduces a new form of citizen participation in the community decision-making process, and it is important that we should try to bridge this gap. the aim of the institution must be to guarantee free and unrestricted access to all public information of the european commission. finally, i would like to stress how essential it is to ensure that the european institutions work in parallel with the people and the national authorities concerned in order to improve communication. this must be done by encouraging the member states to be more active in informing citizens about the issues affecting our europe.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have always, in supporting my intergovernmental and territorial vision of european policy, been a staunch defender of the principle of subsidiarity and a staunch opponent of the costly bureaucratic and administrative burdens which the eu often places on member states, citizens and businesses. i can therefore only support with a positive vote the report by mrs geringer de oedenberg, who stresses the importance of 'better legislation' including the strengthening of the preventive impact assessment of legislative procedures before a particular project is presented as an official legislative proposal by the commission.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as the report says, the counterfeiting of the euro is a real and serious threat. for this reason, the adoption of a specific regulation can help to reduce the circulation of counterfeit money considerably by introducing common procedures for authenticating coins in circulation and mechanisms for the control of these procedures by the authorities. i therefore vote in favour of mr binev's report and thank him for his work.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report deals with the problem of counterfeit coins. until now, the practices for the withdrawal of counterfeit coins have varied between the member states. in this context, this proposal aims to ensure the effective application throughout the euro area of common procedures for authenticating euro coins in circulation and mechanisms for the control of these procedures by the authorities. i voted in favour of this because i believe that it is essential that the procedures should be uniform throughout europe.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the committee on economic and monetary affairs i have actively participated in and followed the progress of this report, which i have supported. the wider uniformity of the systems used in europe to combat counterfeiting of coins is more than desirable, especially after achieving excellent levels of protection in the fight against counterfeiting of banknotes. the proposal we are about to adopt will make it possible to control and monitor the flow and quantity of counterfeit coins in the various member states, which do not have any unified and sufficiently secure systems in this respect. the problem of counterfeiting must be tackled seriously and with effective and advanced tools to avoid serious damage to citizens, traders and ultimately to the budgets of our states.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, counterfeiting of euro coins is a considerable threat, particularly for the higher denominations. the lack of a mandatory common framework for the authentication of coins may, in some member states, hamper the active search for counterfeit coins by the entities concerned, which creates different levels of protection of the currency in the european union. the proposal for a regulation is the legally binding instrument currently needed to establish a common method for authenticating euro coins, to be applied by the institutions concerned, and to define the necessary controls by the member states. in this context, this proposal aims to ensure the effective application, throughout the euro area, of common procedures to improve control and eradicate counterfeiting of coins.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, all counterfeit coins and coins unfit for circulation must be withdrawn and returned to the appropriate national authorities, who will then destroy them. we are voting in favour of this text, although there are no measures to protect citizens who in good faith possess counterfeit money and see it withdrawn from their bank when they deposit it. the elderly are often the victims of fraud by counterfeiters and for this reason it would be necessary to devise a system of at least partial repayment of the money withdrawn from them. it is also necessary to identify more stringent measures for those who manufacture and deal in counterfeit coins.
in writing. - mr president, i voted in favour of mr binev's report, which aims to introduce common procedures for both the authentication of counterfeit money and the control of coins unfit for circulation. at present, banks and money service providers are obliged to check the authenticity of banknotes and coins received before putting them back into circulation, and when counterfeits are detected, they must be withdrawn from circulation. but the practices for tracing counterfeit money differ across the european union: i therefore thought it right to support this initiative which seeks to ensure uniform protection of the currency throughout the euro area.
in writing. - thank you, mr president, i am in favour of granting macrofinancial assistance to the republic of moldova, one of the countries most affected by the global economic crisis. the measure should, as the text of the report shows, help to cover the country's external financing needs in 2010 and 2011, but above all, accelerate the pace of reforms by supporting the government's economic programme and its commitment to eu integration. thank you.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting against this report, mainly for reasons of practicality and practicality. the idea of giving assistance to the republic of moldova can in principle be shared, since giving support to countries neighbouring europe can also help us to prevent problems caused by poverty and the consequent immigration that is pouring into our continent. however, i am voting against the proposal for two reasons. first of all, i have serious doubts about the actual and serious use of the funds that would be allocated by the eu. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet its obligations. there is therefore no credible guarantee that european funds will be handled with discretion and seriousness. in addition, even if we had sufficient guarantees about the proper use of the funds, the proposed figure would still appear inadequate: i do not see how the 90 million euros mentioned in the report can really help a country to embark on the road of internal modernisation and economic and political renewal.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are very sceptical about europe taking on financial contributions to non-eu countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the people of northern ireland, including the creation of a special fund for the protection of children, the creation of a special fund for the protection of children, and the creation of a special fund for the protection of children. it is clear that such intervention does not give direct help to the poor but to a "state-system" that has not been able to manage its own finances. we therefore vote against.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the globalisation that characterises the present historical moment is manifest in all areas of daily life, including, unfortunately, crime. as the text in question explains, the statistics on judicial cooperation procedures between individual member states and japan show that even in the absence of a regulatory framework, the european and japanese judicial authorities are in need of cooperation. i therefore considered it appropriate to vote in favour of this report and i take this opportunity to thank mr iacolino for the excellent work he has done.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, international cooperation in criminal matters is an objective which the eu must pursue with the greatest possible commitment. the current increase in the phenomena of organised crime operating on a transnational scale requires the greatest possible effort on the part of the state, national and international authorities to reach agreements that facilitate bureaucratic and administrative procedures and facilitate the procedures for investigating and prosecuting crimes. the agreement between europe and japan on which we are called upon to vote provides sufficient guarantees of respect for the law and the rights of individuals, and is also a historic occasion because it legally enshrines for the first time the will of the two parties to achieve forms of cooperation in criminal matters and the fight against crime. i therefore vote in favour of mr iacolino's report.
in writing. - madam president, i would first like to congratulate mr iacolino on his excellent work. i voted in favour of this because i believe that the large number of judicial cooperation procedures between individual member states and japan in recent years now calls for a single legal and regulatory framework, especially in view of the incomprehensible absence of bilateral treaties with the eu member states. this is a judicial cooperation agreement, similar to those already concluded in the past, and covers in particular cooperation in the conduct of investigations or the acquisition of evidence, as well as other activities such as the service of communications in the requested country. the provisions of the agreement aim to achieve the most effective judicial assistance possible, capable of meeting today's challenges, while at the same time ensuring adequate levels of protection. as regards the grounds for refusal, i would like to stress the importance of the provision protecting the member states against the possible use of agreements in the context of proceedings for capital offences; the european union has repeatedly stated its position on the abolition of the death penalty or at least an international moratorium on it.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate mr iacolino on the excellent work he has done on this report. the report has a very good legal and procedural framework and represents a decisive step forward in judicial cooperation not only with japan but i hope it can be used as a model for future relations on assistance with other non-eu countries. european citizens often commit a crime while abroad, sometimes without even knowing that they are breaking the laws of the host country. in any case, it is essential to ensure legal and judicial assistance, starting with translations, the possibility of expressing oneself in one's own language and the possibility of obtaining help and assistance in one's own language. clearly, there are some difficulties to be borne in mind in the different legal systems, but i think there are certain guarantees which must be observed and respected in any case.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the globalisation of our present historical moment is manifest in all areas of daily life, including crime. statistics on judicial cooperation procedures between individual member states and japan show that even in the absence of a regulatory framework, the european and japanese judicial authorities are in need of cooperation between each other. noting the absence of bilateral treaties between the member states of the european union and japan and aware of the benefits of a harmonised and consistent regulatory framework, the council authorised in february 2009 the opening of negotiations for the conclusion of an agreement on mutual assistance in criminal matters between the european union and japan. in conclusion, the standards of protection provided for in this agreement appear to be higher than those guaranteed in similar agreements, including some recently concluded. the adoption of the agreement does not, however, present any particular criticisms.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is right that we should seek to establish cooperation between the european union and non-eu countries in the fight against crime, because globalisation leads to the expansion of national criminal networks, such as the mafia and the triads. strengthening and extending these agreements to countries with high crime rates could lead to a reduction in the expansion of illegality in the european union. we therefore vote in favour.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the text presented by mr iacolino because it represents a very valuable agreement on judicial cooperation, a concrete step towards the modernisation of the international judicial system, which has as its objective the fight against organised crime. the european and japanese authorities are often called upon to cooperate in the fight against organised crime and this international agreement undoubtedly provides the benefits of developing a harmonious and coherent regulatory framework on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters between the european union and japan. and i would like to point out that the eu-japan agreement provides for a higher standard of protection than that provided for in similar agreements on judicial cooperation.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote in favour of this report. the interconnection of business registers is a suitable measure to promote further integration of the economic area within the eu and to enhance legal certainty for businesses and consumers. however, information from a commercial register is not comparable to information otherwise available in the economic sphere. they have a different legal validity and adequacy from one member state to another, which users must be aware of when consulting the data. in view of the particular circumstances, it is necessary to provide for the interconnection of registers and access to data to be provided in a single, user-friendly and easily accessible context. finally, the project's success requires the participation of all the member states, so that it can be made binding as soon as the technical criteria have been refined.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the idea of interconnecting business registers so that those concerned can have access to them is in line with the demands for transparency made by trade associations. globalisation means that companies are constantly moving within and outside the eu, and it is good that those who are interested can consult these registers freely. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined.
in writing. - mr president, i voted in favour of mr portas' report on the interconnection of business registers because, in order to remove the existing obstacles to business mobility in the eu, it is appropriate to consider the mandatory integration of european business registers for all member states. the introduction of a single european portal for access to business registers, a valid and accessible portal in the 27 member states that allows all citizens to access information on european companies, is certainly a tool to make it easier and more convenient for businesses to develop within the union.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have expressed my support for mrs schroedter's report, because i share its message and its approach. sustainable development takes into account the needs of present generations, so as not to compromise the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. the council decision, in addition to taking account of economic and ecological interests, provides for investment in human, social and innovation capital, with the aim of fostering conditions for competitiveness, welfare and social cohesion. another very important point in the document concerns the definition of 'green jobs'. these activities are not limited to those directly linked to environmental protection, but also to those which contribute to the transition towards a sustainable economy by promoting energy saving and the use of renewable energy sources and by preventing the production of waste.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report in question sees us as opposed to it, although we are in favour of it on some points of principle. the development of new jobs in the green sectors, the use of renewable sources, the restoration of the ecosystem and energy saving are desirable and should be supported. on the other hand, we cannot accept that the costs of the transition to sustainable places, especially in a time of crisis like this, should be borne by our companies. sources of finance should be provided for companies wishing to convert wholly or partially to the environmentally sustainable sector. the procedures for replacing the most polluting plants with those with a low environmental impact, which, as is often the case in italy, are opposed by the population, should also be simplified.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we agree with the report in question because it removes obstacles to free trade between the eu countries and important european trading partners. we believe that, in the case of italy in particular, a greater implementation of the internal market with switzerland could have positive consequences for our companies and our workers. the decision already taken by switzerland to reduce banking secrecy considerably, in line with the need for transparency as decided in the european union, should be welcomed.
in writing. - madam president, i fully agree with the text of the resolution which establishes a regulation giving the possibility of implementing safeguard measures where imports from south korea, as a result of the application of the fta, are likely to cause serious damage to european producers and the manufacturing industry. the regional application of this clause is essential to enable not only the member states but also the industry itself and parliament to request the opening of investigations to safeguard european exports in a timely manner. the vote in favour of the zalba resolution allows us to take a clear and decisive stand towards the council in order to confirm the role of parliament as an actor and not merely as an executor of european trade policies. we are very surprised that the belgian presidency has put the proposal for a decision on the signing and provisional application of the treaty on the agenda of the next foreign affairs council before parliament itself had started the debate on the treaty and before it had heard the vote in the house on the safeguard clause without having had a formal trilogue, despite knowing the unknowns about the final contents. it is therefore clear that all the institutions must be called upon to show greater mutual respect, as required by the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. - mr president, on 23 april 2007 the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with the republic of korea with a view to concluding an eu-korea free trade agreement. the agreement was signed on 15 october 2009. the agreement contains a bilateral safeguard clause providing for the possibility of re-application of the gnp rate if, as a result of the liberalisation of trade, imports are made in such increased quantities, in absolute terms or relative to domestic production, and are made under conditions such as to cause or threaten to cause serious injury to the union industry producing like or directly competing products. in order for the measures to be effective, this safeguard clause needs to be incorporated into eu law, not only for the procedural aspects of its application, but also because the rights of the parties concerned need to be specified. this proposal for a european parliament and council regulation is the legal instrument for implementing the safeguard clause of the eu-south korea free trade agreement.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of this report because, as point 3 of the report says, all the objectives of the treaty of rome in the field of agriculture (increased productivity, sufficient food supplies, reasonable consumer prices, stabilization of the markets) have been achieved, except for the objective of ensuring a decent income for farmers. the commission should therefore take this into account when drawing up its budget proposals.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, transparency, competition, supply are just some of the issues raised by mr josé bové, who calls on the commission and the council to take action to improve the functioning of the food chain in europe. i decided to vote in favour of the bové report because i firmly believe that the efficiency of the food chain must be achieved by removing unfair trading practices, monitoring prices, involving producers and consumers more closely in the development of quality criteria and local economic development.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the first objective of the cap has always been to guarantee fair incomes for farmers. the commission's examination has revealed discrepancies with the initial principle which we cannot ignore. our farmers are convinced that their work is economically undervalued. the transition from the first to the second stage of the supply chain, in which they are the main players, is no longer considered a determining factor in determining the final price, which then falls on the consumer. it is necessary to control fluctuations in the prices of primary goods which would only and exclusively harm the consumer. i think it is useful to provide for a review of the way the chain is passed through in order to avoid an increase in the price of the good which is not consistent with the correct distribution of the cost of the work done. it is necessary to check that the asymmetrical level between the cost of the product in the first and the last stage is rising, thus creating a detriment for the consumer. the market would be at risk of selling more expensive products which would not reflect an increase in quality. consumers must be the protagonists in order to guarantee a fair return for all operators in the production chain.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr bové's report on improving the food chain in europe is an important first step towards a fairer redistribution of income and a fairer promotion of producers who have been the most affected by unfair trading practices in recent years. i think that we must intervene in this sector by means of measures to increase the bargaining power of producers. like most european producers, the producers in my region have been hit hard by the imbalance in income in the food chain and the fall in prices of agricultural products, which has affected many crops and livestock. the more than 91,000 registered companies in 2005 in veneto decreased by 14% and this decrease mainly affected small producers, in practice those with less importance in the market. i shall therefore vote in favour of the own-initiative report, and i hope that it will be followed by a commission proposal which is equally attentive to the emergency situation in which many producers find themselves.
in writing. - mr president, the problem is longstanding and the situation is getting worse with the growth of power and the concentration of distribution. small and medium-sized farmers are struggling to achieve decent incomes and consumers are coping with the continuous rise in prices. there is no doubt that the rules in the food chain are dictated above all by large-scale organised distribution, which is a strong player in terms of supply. it is therefore important to implement the measures to combat unfair trading practices and to introduce the price transparency mechanisms provided for in this directive, which i voted for with conviction. however, this is still not enough to guarantee farmers the fair profit margins that the cap itself sets as its objective. the price control mechanism needs to be further improved; encourage the establishment of producer organisations in order to strengthen the bargaining power of individual farms; improve the organisation of the food chain, taking account of the different sizes of holdings and the specificities of the various markets. in essence, to ensure fair incomes at each link in the supply chain, especially in a context of quality and consumer protection, the issue must be tackled more effectively and in its complex totality.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report because i think it is good for the italian food industry. in particular, i think it is essential to adopt instruments to support the development of short supply chains and markets run directly by farmers, thus reducing the various intermediaries for the benefit of consumers who will buy the products at a fairer price. the commission is also called upon to take serious action against unfair competition which has a negative impact on small producers.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report for the same reasons as the title: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that farmers receive a fair income. however, although this is one of the objectives of the common agricultural policy, it has always received less attention than other objectives such as increased productivity and the overall competitiveness of the european food industry. i am aware of the factors that are undermining the proper functioning of the food chain in europe. they became apparent due to the severe volatility of raw material prices in the agri-food sector. these problems appear to be closely linked to the increased concentration in the sectors of processing companies, wholesalers, retailers and supermarket chains, their increasing market power and various abuses of dominant purchasing power in the food chain. i agree with the rapporteur that to respond to these problems it is desirable and appropriate to improve price transparency along the food chain in order to increase competition and combat volatility and to improve the circulation of information on supply and demand among trading partners.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the egf has proved to be a good instrument at eu level to deal with the consequences of the financial crisis, especially in the employment field. however, the increase in the number of requests for assistance and the difficulties in applying the procedure for its activation and implementation require a rapid amendment of its procedural and budgetary provisions. i am therefore voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i supported the report on the financing and operation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) because i believe that it is a valuable resource for workers in difficulty because of the economic crisis. the fund was set up to provide practical support to workers made redundant as a result of the relocation of their businesses or as a result of the crisis, with a view to their reintegration into the labour market. the own-initiative report voted on today highlights some critical points in the functioning of the fund and makes some proposals to both the commission and the member states to review the way the fund operates in order to help streamline and shorten the procedures for accessing it. finally, i would like to draw your attention to a key point concerning the proposal to extend the derogation introduced in 2009 and which has allowed the area of operation of the fund to be extended, including the economic crisis as one of the requirements, until the end of 2013.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is experiencing a structural increase in unemployment due to the economic crisis and the policies of relocation. the egf is a useful tool with which the eu can give support and solidarity to workers who have lost their jobs. the fund was used little until 2009 for bureaucratic reasons and i find it essential to ask the commission to introduce measures to reduce the duration of the fund activation procedure. if flexibility and accessibility are increased, the egf will become a key instrument for the social policies of the member states. i therefore voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my support for mr portas' report. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is a key instrument to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of the relocation of their businesses. it has proved to be an even more important tool for workers, assisting them in re-entering the labour market during the recent crisis. the report by mr portas is a crucial point and one which aims to improve and simplify an important resource for european citizens, and is tangible evidence of how the eu is working to help tackle the downturn, to fight unemployment and to support its citizens.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have supported the report by my colleague, because i believe it represents a step forward in the field of private international law. this branch of law, which is also more interconnected than the other legal systems, needs to be updated. as regards the substance of the report, i agree with the idea of abolishing the exequatur, but i believe, however, that this measure should be compensated by an extraordinary procedure, combined with appropriate safeguards for judicial debtors. i am also against removing the exclusion of arbitration from the scope of the regulation, but i believe that the relationship between arbitration and judicial proceedings requires much more in-depth reflection and that the idea of an exclusive competent authority in judicial proceedings in support of arbitration in the civil courts of the member states should not be pursued until a full review and wide consultation has been carried out. i also agree with the rapporteur when he calls for broad consultation and political debate before any action on this issue is taken which is outside the suggestions made in this report.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this regulation, which we support, is balanced and aims to provide certainty, for example in determining the competent court within the european jurisdiction when there are disputes in civil and commercial matters in transnational conflicts. any future amendments to the regulation will be made by the european parliament in its capacity as co-legislator, as they will be made under the ordinary legislative procedure.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are very concerned about this report and therefore vote against it, because while it is right to make women from non-eu countries aware of their rights within their families, where they often live in segregation, we cannot think of favouring those who come to our country as guests, as opposed to our own citizens who have always lived and paid taxes in the member states. already today, if we evaluate the proportion of non-eu residents compared to european citizens who enjoy free social services such as health, education and housing, this is clearly in favour of the former. this means that those who live, work and pay taxes in their own country are ranked lower than those who have just arrived in europe.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i supported the report by my finnish colleague for a number of reasons. the population of the european union is ageing. according to statistics, women live longer than men. age discrimination is prohibited by european legislation in the field of employment. the legislation in force, however, does not automatically mean that age discrimination has disappeared from the workplace. in general, women continue to experience difficulties in making careers and this results in a strong imbalance where the male component is much more represented in top managerial roles, especially with regard to older workers. in addition, women more frequently face difficulties in re-entering the labour market, and the older a woman is the less competitive she is in the eyes of an employer. but older women must be protected in all areas of life, not just in the workplace, because discrimination on grounds of age and sex is a violation of fundamental rights. in order to combat the double discrimination that women of a certain age often experience, it is necessary to recognise the following aspects and take action:
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report we have adopted touches on a subject which is as important as it is too often overlooked. european citizens are living longer and longer, extending the so-called 'third age' by many more years than in the past. but too often this stage of life is lived in a negative way, subject to the conditioning of a society which ignores the potential of experience of the elderly and considers it a real burden, turning active subjects into passive objects. this dangerous phenomenon affects women in particular, who on average live longer than men and who have been hit hard by the current economic crisis, which has drastically reduced the services available to them. many have been left at risk of poverty, condemned to live on a pension that is insufficient. i hope that in the interests of all european women, young and old, today's vote will go in the direction of making clear the centrality of their role in today's society.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while i am perfectly in line with the demand for equal employment and equal economic treatment for men and women, i think that more emphasis should have been placed on family services, since in the vast majority of cases, when there are sick children and elderly people in a family, it is women who bear the greatest burden. strengthening family support services, not only economic but structural - such as childcare, efficient public transport, home care for the elderly and sick - would relieve women, especially those in employment, of much of the burdens they normally face. this report sees us as opposed to this because it calls for an action plan which specifically includes the integration of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with the adoption of the treaty of lisbon, the european union has acquired greater powers, particularly at the legislative level. 80% of national rules come from decisions of the european parliament, but citizens do not understand this influence in their daily lives. local media doesn't facilitate change by giving too much space to national dynamics. it is important to improve the exchange of european information between journalists, to increase the range of languages used by euronews and to improve communications between members and voters. new technologies are a great help in the circulation of news if used correctly and wisely. the internet has helped spread news, especially among young people, who feel more involved in social life. many of them create blogs, discussion forums, websites about the european union and thus stimulate a constructive debate. criticism is a citizen's right-duty as long as it is based on real facts and not on gossip.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, communication in a political context is essential. consequently, if the policy is not adequately communicated, a problem arises. and in this area the european union is faced with a difficult and difficult challenge. new systems should be found to increase the interest of european citizens in matters concerning the european union. the report considered ways in which communication can activate and stimulate european debate and the flow of information, both through wider discussion of european issues in national media and through a european public sphere. however, if the spirit of the report can be shared, there are some points and some demands which i think are perhaps excessive.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is right to try to explain to the european citizens what the european union does and what it is for with all its bodies. in particular, efforts should be made to give citizens a leading role by allowing them to choose who represents them. even today, the most important posts, such as the high representative for foreign affairs, the president of the commission and the president of the council, are appointed without the involvement of the citizens. the report by mr glinne, which i am sure will be very useful to the house, is a very good report.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have heard attacks on the french government, as they were made on the italian government in its day, and very harsh attacks on the commission. in fact, these charges are completely bogus. i have heard no objection to a figure, given by the french police authorities, that in the 18 months following the exodus of the roma from bulgaria and romania there has been an increase in theft of more than 250 per cent. in this connection, perhaps some questions should be asked of romania and bulgaria, which were very lightly admitted to the european union without first resolving this problem. we must also speak clearly to these gentlemen who come, guests of other states, whose citizens they must respect, not by entering their homes abusively and committing actions that are not proper to those who are guests, who must respect, must be protected as those who speak to us of the high principles but there are also victims of crimes: the other honest citizens of the european union who, perhaps for good reasons, do not always like to have roma as neighbours. these are the uncomfortable things that the majority of citizens and the people think and that some well-wishers do not have the courage to admit, because it is the truth that sometimes you also have to have the political courage to say .... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i find the decision of president sarkozy very serious, who, once again, in order to hide internal political problems - as has already happened in italy - is trying to regain consensus by criminalising the different and immigrants, seeking consensus on the anxiety of social security. europe, even before it is a market europe, must be a europe of rights, a europe of solidarity and a europe of inclusion. that is why sarkozy was immediately followed by the very serious statement of the italian minister of the interior that he wants to adopt the sarkozy method and extend it to the community, expelling the community without income and without housing. so instead of promoting policies of inclusion, policies that reduce social inequalities and tend to unite, they are once again trying to criminalize. this is very serious because immigrants, the different, those who are considered on the margins of society are useful when they serve, for example, for black labor, so they have duties but no rights. if a non-european, a roma or an immigrant commits a crime, they are punished, but this should not be a pretext for very serious expulsions. the commission must react if it wants a europe of solidarity, equality and freedom.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as i said this morning in another debate, i would like us to help each other take seriously what we say. if it is true - as my socialist and liberal colleagues say - that the french government's behaviour is undemocratic and if it is true that the commission - as my colleague mr swoboda says - is weak or even complicit in this behaviour, why has this behaviour been endorsed by members of the commission from the socialist and liberal families? and why do these commissioners not resign, thus putting the commission and the governments in charge of their responsibilities? if it is all propaganda, it is propaganda done precisely to avoid tackling the heart of the problem, because the heart of the problem and the first strategy is that at the center of everything is the person. the roma are our citizens, the poor are our people, because the difficulties of integration are concentrated in the suburbs and weigh on the poorest strata of the population; all these people need to be set up. what do we ask, what did the french government ask for? the european union's directives, which we voted for in this parliament, must be implemented, and we must have certain rules for a good future for our people.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, the decision of the french government to expel more than a thousand roma is extremely serious, especially if we consider that this measure was taken for propaganda and populist reasons at a time when the french government is not at all in favour of public opinion, and this is the real political manipulation. this measure is a direct attack on the principle of european citizenship. the restriction of this principle, as laid down in directive 2004/38/ec on free movement, must be made in specific cases and assessed on a case-by-case basis. i don't think any of this happened. the commission's task as guardian of the treaties is precisely to intervene promptly and to assess carefully xenophobic behaviour by member states which is not in accordance with community law. i would also like to point out that, with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the charter of fundamental rights has become binding and prohibits all forms of discrimination on grounds of ethnic origin or nationality. today's debate gives us an opportunity to find out what the commission and the council think and how they will react to these measures, also because, to be honest, the commission's reply seemed to me a little late. i would like to ask the commission and the council what has happened to the action plan for the development of a european strategy for roma and their integration and how france and the other member states are using the european money for the integration of ethnic minorities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, how many common points of view on valuations have you heard today! valuations that are more transparent if we look at the rights; the right not to be returned - on which we all agree - but also the right of children to live and study in a dignified environment. if i forced my son to sit in a stroller for days at a crossroads, exposed to the sun, the rain, and fed him through the exhaust fumes of blue cars, if i did that, the court would take away my child's custody. if a member state acts on similar situations, caused by ethnic minority communities, it is racist. article 7 of directive 2004/38/ec provides that a right of residence of more than three months is granted to persons who are enrolled in a school for the purpose of pursuing a course of study. but we don't have to fingerprint the kids so we can't identify them, so if one of them shows up at school one day, you call it in, the next day another one comes in and says, "no, it's me". the school appeal must be made not with names, but with vocal lines because you cannot identify them otherwise you are racist. it is a rather curious logic that we should respect the right not to return, but not the right to a decent life, which we should also commit ourselves to guaranteeing to the community's ethnic minorities in our europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time we have debated the roma. many good intentions, but frankly inadequate results. the responsibilities are obviously broadly shared; we can say in this case that those who are without sin throw the first stone in terms of roma integration. i would like to thank the commission, however, for the new policies it has announced today. i would have liked to have had a thorough debate on these issues, but it was not possible. we have seen the usual theater and what bothers me most is the ideological exploitation of the roma for political purposes, as the left does today, the same one that has governed for years at national and local level, that has allowed the roma to live in indecent slums, that children were forced to beg, that they did not go to school, etc. so, mr swoboda, when the left was in power, there was no scandal, i did not hear any words of indignation when these things happened. i appeal to the president: next time, let's have a real debate about policies, programs, facts.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we need to have a serious debate to find a solution at european level to a problem affecting many of our countries. but the debate must be approached constructively, avoiding pretentious positions or demagoguery. the european left, once again, is blind to an emergency such as that of the roma which it has not wanted and has not been able to deal with, and uses this problem to throw gasoline on the fire and exploit the emergency for mere propaganda purposes. i have always been a supporter of a society of inclusion and acceptance, but precisely for this reason, certain rules must be respected by all those who want to be part of and integrate into a society, a nation. a socialist like tony blair has said that 'immigration and the fusion of cultures have always been an enrichment, but those who arrive in another state are confronted with a system of values. and these values must be respected by all". that is why, regardless of any cultural or religious differences, there are shared principles, established on the rule of law that are part of our collective heritage, and that everyone must accept.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, immobility and short-sightedness: this is the diagnosis of the malaise that is afflicting europe at 27. the fact that one in four young people in italy is unemployed and that there are 16 million unemployed in the euro zone is also due to the fact that the noise of european propaganda of recent months has not been followed up by any concrete and effective action. it is shortsighted because europe, in its attempt to show the way out of the crisis, has not only re-presented the usual recipe but has completely lost sight of the more genuinely territorial dimension of economic and social cohesion policy. only by placing the territory at the centre of political action and respecting its specific cultural vocations can european development and employment policies be set in motion, drawing on the natural energies that each geographical area expresses: the commission has also proposed that the new rules be adopted in the following cases: to solve the employment problem, we must think small first, invest in local authorities and give priority to subsidiarity, while protecting a heritage of linguistic and cultural diversity. if the needle of the european compass does not point its policy towards the territory, the wreckage of the euro project is certain.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the new guidelines for employment are a fundamental step forward for economic recovery and growth in europe. the crisis has led to a significant increase in the unemployment rate, which reached 9,6% in 2010; 20.3 percent for youth unemployment, millions and millions of unemployed. but unemployment is only part of the problem. it is not just a question of creating new jobs, but also of upgrading and preserving existing ones. and to achieve the objectives that are outlined in the report, structural change in the economy is necessary. in this respect, despite the considerable efforts made by the rapporteur, mr ory, parliament's response to the figures just given is still general and dispersed, and this is detrimental to the european strategy. key indicators and targets are not enough. it is not enough to use terms such as 'coordinate', 'dialogue', 'collaborate', or a pact between generations. we need a european policy that responds to the needs of the citizens. the limits imposed by budgetary policies must be overcome by more concrete, development-oriented public programming. we must project today's interventions in favour of young people and the new generations, we need training and education policies that are able to invest in human capital to improve its quality and link it to the labour market. we need choices in favour of the production system. i mean: less paperwork, more investment and clearer economic choices.
president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, once all the opinions required under the treaty have been received, the general orientation of the council will be reviewed. and so, after the vote in your plenary, the council and its preparatory groups will examine parliament's amendments. the first meeting of the social affairs group is scheduled for 14 september, with the aim of adopting the guidelines at the epsco employment council on 21 october. in the main, we do not see any major differences between the general orientation of the council and the position of parliament. the commission's original proposal has already been amended by the council to include some points of importance to parliament, such as gender equality, the protection of disabled people, the climate challenge, the development of entrepreneurship, stimulating job demand, the protection of the working poor. the member states also all want a concise text to improve its effectiveness. the belgian presidency could therefore suggest to the council that it take account of certain amendments by parliament in recitals, in particular on the governance of the european employment strategy, partly in relation to the definition of the objectives set by the member states, on quality of work and decent work, on the relationship with productivity and the stimulation of smes and, finally, on gender. in addition, discussions - in particular at the request of the belgian delegation - took place in the working group on the definition of sub-objectives in the field of employment, in particular for certain target groups. finally, as you know, the member states did not choose this option. and as it will be very difficult to include quantified sub-objectives in the guidelines, the belgian presidency could suggest linking this issue to the new context of socio-economic governance, the europe 2020 strategy and economic governance. the presidency could therefore suggest to the council that the guidelines be followed up effectively. this would involve the annual adoption of country-specific employment recommendations by the epsco council, which could then recommend country-specific sub-targets based on their national circumstances. furthermore, as already emphasised by the emco employment committee in its contribution to the europe 2020 strategy, member states are encouraged to set national sub-targets for target groups adapted to their national circumstances. i would like to conclude by thanking parliament for the work it has done on these guidelines and assure it that it will take this work into account.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, i feel there is time pressure, so will try to be relatively concise. i would like to make a few points concerning the procedure, and also the substantial parts of these discussions, because this is a key discussion for the present and the future of the european union. indeed, we had a rush in the spring period, and it is well known that the commission came to office itself with a delay because of the delayed ratification of the lisbon treaty in many countries. some documents had to be produced to short deadlines, including, eminently, europe 2020. this also affected the timetable for the employment guidelines, and rapid work had to be done on economic governance. however, the challenges justified this rush, and i appreciate that in these challenges we had good cooperation with the rapporteur and with parliament in general. now i too have to answer in a rush, but i have a few very substantial points. first of all, a few comments drew a comparison with the lisbon agenda. we have much more structured objectives and a much better proposal for governance of the strategy, and that gives us hope that success will be guaranteed, as opposed to the lisbon strategy which was only partially successful. some criticism is justified, but it is not true that up to 2008 and the financial crisis the lisbon strategy was totally unsuccessful. some further issues: with the employment guidelines we intend to boost both the quantity and the quality of jobs. the quantity has a numerical target in europe 2020 as well, and in my view this is an ambitious target given the fact that we are now at a low point and unemployment is very high and we are in a jobless recovery. it is not coming. it is here. unfortunately there are only very few member states where the number of employed people is increasing at this moment, but the good news is that germany is one of them. with job growth in germany, we now have hope that this could be sustained and will spread through other countries. the fact that now we have a better trend at the centre of the european economy highlights the importance of cohesion. i would be the last one to deny the importance of cohesion policy, but would like to say that, if i needed to connect cohesion with the integrated guidelines, then i would have preferred to put it into the economic guidelines as opposed to the employment guidelines, because there are disparities within europe, but there are much bigger disparities in terms of economic performance between the core and the periphery than in terms of unemployment rates. however, i am happy, as ever, to work with you on issues of cohesion and its connection with employment policies. we have the ambitious target of 75% but i would like to make a correction which is that the 75% does not apply to every sub-group individually. for example, the implication is not that women also would have a 75% average. that is a figure we gave for men and women combined. that is important when member states come to develop their own programmes for employment and to connect to the flagship initiative in the coming months. we have ambitious work on subgroups like youth, and i would just like to draw your attention to the fact that next week we launch the youth on the move flagship initiative. this is again something which is an inherent and strong part of our overall work on employment. if you look at the content of the youth on the move document, you will see that it is 50% education and 50% employment, because the commission understands the importance of the employment challenges for young people in europe. a few more bullet points, owing to time pressure. we cannot promise maintenance of employment in every single sector, such as the coal industry which was mentioned. the commission appreciates the importance of maintaining jobs in declining industries. we have extended the possibility of government subsidies to the coal industry for the next few years, but not endlessly. we have to prepare for change and we have to prioritise the shift towards green jobs in the future. that is why we are working on green jobs in order to facilitate this transition, and in order better to anticipate what jobs will accompany this inevitable structural change in the economy and to help people prepare better for a different structure in terms of energy production, energy use, the construction industry, automotive industry, agriculture and so on and so forth. i fully agree with what was said in terms of child poverty. we have just coordinated with the belgian and hungarian presidencies that one would initiate a recommendation and the other would complete the work on a new recommendation on child poverty, which will be in full coordination with our work for the european platform. i also agree that we have to look beyond the narrow set of instruments – the toolkit of employment policies – when aiming high to increase employment rates and going for full employment eventually. it is not only about working on skills, although skill development is central. we have to participate in the broader macro-economic discussions – in the discussion on exit strategies for example – and we have to make sure that a premature exit from supportive measures would not endanger the recovery and a return to job creation in europe. however, i would refrain from any kind of overtures in this context that would call into question the structure of the economic and monetary union and the newly-established structures of economic governance, because the lesson has to be learned. we have to pull together and that also means closer macro-economic coordination. the point is to take into account unemployment, which is one of the great imbalances of the economy, when we try to tackle the overall imbalances under the new structures of economic governance. the european social fund will continue to be a major instrument to boost employment, especially to improve the quality of supply to help unemployed people to return to jobs, new jobs, better and more competitive jobs, and potentially to self-employment. i am in direct contact with the authorities in wales who have explained to me with great satisfaction on how the esf is working in wales. i would like to maintain the esf within the cohesion framework, but it is also true that, given the challenges of unemployment and poverty, we have to give the esf better visibility. i would like to see a greater role, and greater involvement of parliament in designing the future of the social fund and as concerns, for example, a new regulation for the future. i am sure we can work on this together very well. i could comment on many other issues, but time is very short and i have had bilateral committee-level meetings and discussions with many of those now present. finally, i would like to thank the belgian presidency for the cooperation we have had with the deputy prime minister and with all the others responsible for employment issues and social affairs in the belgian government.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as the international monetary fund recently stressed in its semiannual report, unemployment is, and will continue to be, the major problem facing the advanced economies in the years ahead. the situation of young people entering the labour market for the first time is particularly difficult: according to recent eurostat data, youth unemployment, also due to the recent economic and financial crisis, has increased across europe. in april, the commission presented a proposal for the 'europe 2020 integrated guidelines' setting out the framework for the new strategy and suggesting reforms for member states to implement. with reference to the report under discussion today, which examines the employment component of the integrated guidelines, in particular, i agree that the number of guidelines should be limited in order to give greater substance to european action to combat the problem of rising unemployment. i would like to stress the importance of investing in human capital: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european social fund is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women.
member of the commission. − ‘if conditions are right’ was the way i put it to mr florenz. i think that what is now very important is for the member states of the european union to reflect back on the very thorough communication that we sent out in may. i, of course, was very happy to see that the french, german and british ministers of the environment so clearly spoke out in the middle of july, and i only hope that other member states will do the same. i think they showed, in the way they argued, that this is not just a question of international negotiations, it is also about what actually serves europeans’ interests properly. that is what we are going to continue to discuss –including with the belgians under the belgian presidency – and of course it is also very significant what kind of message comes to us from the european parliament. so you also have quite an influence there. i must say to mr perello rodriguez that i very much agree with the necessity of speaking with one voice. as i have said before, that does not mean that only one voice can be that voice. what is important is that, whenever other parties in the world listen to what european representatives tell them, they can be more or less sure that it is the same kind of message coming out, the same line that we are advocating. that is what is important, and that is what we are working to secure with the belgian presidency, including in the way that we formulate the mandates, because we cannot continue to signal to the whole world where our red lines are. if we do not want them to know exactly where all our red lines are, we must make some more flexible mandates, and then we must have confidence in one another and be sure that we then have some leverage to negotiate. i think that is also crucial for the way we will come out of cancún.
the agenda includes the commission's statement on freedom of expression and freedom of the press in the european union.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately everyone is aware of the information situation in italy: we're ranked as a partially free country by freedom house and in 71st place with tonga, and just ahead of east timor. the "gag law" is just the latest piece of a larger picture in which the country's democratic defenses are severely weakened, especially due to the lack of free information. as the osce points out in its most recent report, the question of the breakdown of democracy and the acquired rights of information and free expression is unfortunately spreading to europe. it is enough to think of france, with the governmental appointment of the head of the public service television, or of hungary, estonia and romania, which, with severe legislative interventions aimed at restricting freedom of expression, are making it impossible for the information to play the indispensable democratic role of government watchdog. for this reason, i believe that the commission must make a strong and constant commitment to defending freedom of the media and information, in line with the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. i would therefore ask the commission what action it intends to take to promote genuine media pluralism in the countries of the european union, and in particular when it will adopt the promised communication for 2010 on media pluralism indicators and the subsequent legislative proposal. i would not like the commission to be tempted, as it was with the expulsion of the roma in france, to give up defending freedom and democracy in europe in order to cover up the actions of member state governments, which are increasingly concerned with concealing their wrongdoing from the press and public opinion. i hope that you, like commissioner reding, will reassure me on this point.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i very much appreciated the commissioner's approach to this debate, both because he said that there are basically no genuine violations in europe and because he reassured us about the commission's role as guardian of the treaties, and therefore also of freedom of the press and of expression in europe. there are, indeed, some dangers. the commissioner pointed out that almost half of the countries belonging to our union are subject to infringement to see whether freedom of the press and of expression is really guaranteed in these countries. it is not a question of a state or of individual states, it is obviously not an italian problem. we have already expressed our views on this in this parliament a few months ago in a democratic vote. it is a more general problem that we have to deal with in this house. tomorrow we will be voting on a report on how to create a public sphere in europe as regards journalism and new media. this report contains some indications on which our parliament is beginning to take a position. we need to talk about how to combine truth and freedom in new media, but also in more traditional media, because if it is a right to tell everything, it is also a duty to tell the truth when writing or expressing oneself in a media. we also need to understand how to combine information with the right to privacy of citizens, of all citizens. these are the issues we must tackle and on which this parliament must measure itself, and not on ideologies or on some issues that speak of things that do not exist in any european country.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i am glad that you are the guardian of the treaties. the commission is actually very careful to keep the commission's own secrets, so much so that it is very difficult for us members of parliament, for example, to be widely and especially in depth informed about what is happening in the secret rooms of your meetings of commissioners who were not elected by our peoples and who should therefore feel the need for communication and transparency much more strongly. for example, i still expect an answer that is not ironic, like the one i was given to my question so that i can circulate the truth in the newspapers. president barroso has been, is a member, attends the bilderberg club or not? a reply like the one i received and which i have disclosed in my press releases, namely 'borghezio, you are more informed than we are about the bilderberg group' is a bit strange and i would therefore like to have news on these matters. what information did the international press, for example, give about the background to the financial crisis? the lisbon strategy has been mentioned, which is very interesting. the real ownership of the big financial groups that own the big newspapers and the big media, but they're all chinese boxes, maybe they're based in financial havens. i think you would do well to promote an initiative to really disseminate these backgrounds of politics, finance and economics - subjects which are of great interest to the public, which has a right to full information. i note, and i emphasize, the silence of the left on the bilderberg club and the trilateral.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in building a europe of rights, freedom of information, pluralism of information and independence of information have a central place. has the commissioner noticed that there is a country in the european union - which was also founded by the treaty of rome - where there is no pluralism of information, where a president of the council directly or indirectly controls public and private television and printed matter? what democratic electoral competition can there be in a country where a president of the council a political party controls the media? what kind of democracy can there be in a country where a law is passed within days that does not allow journalists to publish facts of judicial reportage? more than watergate, more than regime watchdog press! the living room poodle! what democratic country is it that wants to control the internet? what democratic country is that where those who oppose the united thought are put in a corner and are not guaranteed free expression of thought and dissent? we are not describing bokassa's sudan or ceausescu's romania: the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and i am afraid that the commission will not be able to take a decision on this matter.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this is the second time that we have come together in this parliament to discuss the question of freedom of the press. it is a demonstration, madam commissioner, that this is a matter of great concern, a major problem for european public opinion. i recall that this parliament adopted a resolution in may 2004 calling on the commission to take action to protect media pluralism and freedom of the press, but in all these years we have not heard the commission's voice. as you know, the problem is now getting bigger. the issues affecting italy, romania and hungary are different but concern the same field. in italy, as you are well aware, there is still a serious conflict of interest, aggravated by the government's occupation of the public service broadcasting; in romania, the press is even considered a threat to the nation. in hungary, the government wants to take journalism exams. the european institutions cannot of course be complicit in the media being controlled by governments. freedom of information is not a material good, which can be evaluated only according to market criteria, but it is the right of citizens to form their own opinions on politics, the quality of governments, public life. there can be no more excuses for the european institutions, the commission must act decisively to strengthen common european standards. your speech, madam commissioner, could give the european citizens the assurance that europe is an area of rights and freedoms.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commissioner for the balance she has struck in her report. we look forward with great interest to the definition of objective indicators for assessing the pluralism of the media. we expect it both as members of this parliament and as italians, well aware of how much pluralism, freedom and independence of the media are guaranteed in italy. so we welcome the indications that the italian left is convinced of this, too, as it cyclically, every four or five months, proposes the same debate to us, always obtaining a vote that does not seem to me to be so favorable to their arguments. in italy, most newspapers are left-wing, they attack the government all the time, they make propaganda for the other side. in italy, the left has occupied and militarily allocated the seats of the public service of the state tv paid for with the money of the citizens, which is a by-product of the parties of the centre-left. in italy, on the public service, every day, every week, there are broadcasts that slander the government and the prime minister. but if, for once, some centre-right politician should accidentally sue the newspapers, he would call for an attack on freedom of information. in italy, they do something else. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council by 31 december 2007. "the spectacle of lawyers copying sentences and then going to the journalists is indecent, it's an arab suk". from pietro, march 2007: "the use of eavesdropping should be regulated with penalties to safeguard privacy". veltroni, february 2008: "pd supports the absolute prohibition of publication of the intercepts until the end of the preliminary hearing". if today the italian government allows itself to propose to parliament a law which also regulates the right to privacy and provides for sanctions for those who violate the law on the publication of interceptions, the whole of the left-wing press will be unleashed, shouting out the scandal and with a strong echo in europe, made by the usual ultras. there are left-wing newspapers that have come out like this, they've given up the front page to shout against the gag law. only the first and second, though, because then in the last one the advertisement was published regularly. so to this left-wing ac, who comes here every six months to say that there is no freedom of information, we advise you to put your soul to rest and change the subject, finding it more serious.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that today's debate is a fading re-proposition of what happened in october 2009. freedom of the press: the report, which is a mask, indicates the possibility of creating a public sphere in europe, and we are still talking and talking about what is happening in italy. the commissioner has stated very clearly and unequivocally that there are no violations of freedom of the press by member states. he also said that concrete and objective indicators will measure any performance under this sign, but what should be taken into account more is that the report, in its only positive aspect, involves concretely and openly the local media. if we are to find a positive fact in this report, it is probably this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the freedom to express one's ideas and opinions without infringing the rights and dignity of others is one of the fundamental freedoms of democracies. unfortunately, however, the so-called free media do not always treat political parties and politicians in the same way. we know something about it, ladies and gentlemen, but very little of what we do in this parliament is reported in the media. in italy, despite the accusations of an illiberal and closed left, freedom of the press is guaranteed by an incredible plurality of local and national media. the president of the council has been a very good friend of the commission and of the council of ministers, and i am sure that he will be very pleased to see that the commission has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the council of ministers is able to take the necessary decisions. and i am surprised that law-conscious members of parliament are accusing the italian government of violating the treaty of rome, and perhaps even the treaty of lisbon, and are not using the principal instrument against such violations, which is recourse to the judicial organs of the union. i believe that the european union should set up an independent ethics committee to check the level of press freedom in all 27 member states, thus shutting the mouths of those who sell non-existent realities once and for all.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i have been criticised for quite a lot of things during my long life, but never ever for having no passion, so that is the first time. still, i am grateful for all your interventions: i am aware that, on that score, i have beaten the president with his state of the union speech this morning. there have been so many interventions tonight, and again i am grateful for that. i have listened to your interventions. this is indeed freedom of expression, and i am grateful to be in a parliament that not only tolerates freedom of expression outside, but also defends it in its own house. having said that, we do have a lot in common. we are both – and not only the commission – the guardians of the treaty, so it is right that we are having the debate here and that we should be quite frank with each other in inferring what should be at stake. and yet, with many of the members of parliament who took the floor tonight, i could not resist wondering which most of your countries are, those that you claim to know best. indeed, one of the issues that i am touched by is that quite a number of members of parliament are from young democracies, and i think that is a warning. you have been fighting for freedom of expression and you have been fighting for media pluralism, and we should all take that lesson into account, which is that you do not take something like that for granted but that you have to defend it, and if that is not passion, then i would love to have a drink with you after this session and find out what your definition of passion is. having said that, i would also like to underline that what sofia in ’t veld was mentioning is indeed true. i am really an open book on this matter and i am proud to be an open book. that does not mean that it is always possible to do it 100% your way, for we are indeed finding out what is the best in europe and what is the best way we could take. in order to conclude tonight’s debate, the commission would like to recall that the new article 2 of the treaty on the eu enumerates in its first sentence the values upon which the union is founded, which member states must respect and which member states must promote. these are: respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. the eu and the member states are obliged to respect those values. i am absolutely certain that no-one at this plenary session is against that line, for otherwise you would not be a member of this parliament, and the list contained in the first sentence of that article is not only declaratory but also assumes two concrete aspects. first, respect for those values and the commitment to promote them in common at eu level are two conditions for accession to the eu as provided for in article 49 of the teu and, exactly as some of you mentioned, when we are just judging if a would-be member state is able to join the family, that is also a matter for those who have already joined the family. second, the violation of those values can trigger the warning and sanction procedure provided for in article 7. the operational nature of the list of values explains its brevity. only the most important underlying values with a well-defined legal content have been listed. conversely, in the second sentence, article 2 explains the characteristics of the european model: pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and equality between women and men; and those characteristics help the application and the interpretation of those values. it would be difficult at this stage if the values stated in article 2 were to be in imminent danger as a result of the events evoked today. i do not think that these situations have any cross-border dimension which could justify any intervention from our side at this stage. the commission, and myself in particular as vice-president in charge of the digital agenda and the media, will remain vigilant and will defend press freedom, media pluralism, the right of journalists to protect the confidentiality of their sources and the capacity of the media to investigate corruption and the abuse of power. i consider quality and investigative journalism, written press and news media to be an important feature of european political culture and democracy. finally, let me just say that i really am looking forward to the report by your rapporteur, which was mentioned by ivo belet. i am well aware of the developments concerning your report, and i welcome it very much and look forward to the results. having said that, finally let me assure you that i have listened carefully to all of you, and as i reflect on the next steps with my colleagues, i am ready to continue this debate with you, so i am looking forward to coming back and continuing this debate.
the debate is closed. that concludes the point. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, freedom of the media is out of the question, and no one in a democratic regime can dispute the need for them to be independent and pluralistic. but in the information society, such as ours, it is becoming increasingly clear that independence does not mean the absence of any rules, and that pluralism is not a sufficient value. in the information society, media power is really a public power, which montesquieu, if he were alive today, would have tried to balance with the other powers: the legislative, executive and judicial branches. these three traditional powers must also be independent, but there is a mutual limit between them. i do not know whether this problem has been studied in depth. i shall confine myself to two considerations. the right to freedom of the press is a human right at least as much as the rights to dignity and privacy of every citizen. there is therefore a duty to have balanced rules. the judiciary must be transparent, but there are investigations which, in the initial phase, in order to find out the truth, must be absolutely secret in the interests of justice and, ultimately, of the citizens. i think that these two aspects are always neglected in our debates. i meant to leave a mark on you.
the next item is the debate on: - the oral question to the commission on discrimination against married or civil partners of the same sex, by cornelis de jong, eva-britt svensson, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, by marije cornelissen, raül romeva i rueda, ulrike lunacek, on behalf of the green group, and michael cashman, britta thomsen, sophia in 't veld, sirpa pietikäinen (o-0081/2010 - b7-0451/2010), - the oral question to the commission on the mutual recognition of marriages and civil partnerships between same-sex couples by claude moraes, michael cashman, monika flašíková beňová, on behalf of the s&d group (o-0117/2010 - b7-0459/2010), - the oral question to the commission on discrimination against same-sex couples, freedom of movement, lgbt rights, eu roadmap, by sophia in 't veld, renate weber, niccolò rinaldi, sarah ludford, sonia alfano, cecilia wikström, alexander alvaro, gianni vattimo, on behalf of the alde group (o-0118/2010 - b7-0460/2010) on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to restrictions on the marketing and use of certain dangerous substances and preparations (com (90) 0267 - c4-0526/2010 - syn 252)
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, it is clear that the right to free movement and residence of eu citizens and their family members is one of the cornerstones of the eu. it is not only a fundamental right but also a personal right. article 21 of the treaty is very clear and gives effect to that right. the ban on discrimination, including discrimination at the level of sexual orientation, is a cornerstone of the eu and is also recognised in another article 21, but this time of the charter of fundamental rights. the directive has brought a very significant improvement for same-sex couples. i would like to thank parliament, because it was parliament which really pushed this through. eu law has provided, for the first time, for the right of both same-sex and different sex couples to move and reside freely within the european union. that said, it is implicit that if you are allowed to move freely and to reside freely, then you must also have the same rights at your second place of residence as you do at your first place of residence. it is for the member states, as has been said, to decide whether or not they provide for registered partnerships or for a legal order, but what we are gradually seeing is more and more member states moving in the direction of either recognising or allowing same-sex marriages. the directive is very modern in that respect because it does not distinguish between same-sex couples and couples of the opposite sex. actually, the directive is neutral on this. it allows such situations to happen and for couples to express themselves and to have this right. in that sense it is not necessary to amend the directive. how this directive is implemented in practical terms is another matter. the directive in itself is not the problem, but rather the interpretation of the directive. for the commission it is very clear that the directive must be applied with full respect for the principle of the prohibition of discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation. the commission has to ensure the correct application of eu law. this means the commission has to monitor whether, in applying the directive, member states respect fundamental rights, including the prohibition of discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation – the well-known article 21 of the charter. the commission attaches great importance to eliminating any obstacle restricting the right of free movement and residence, and will continue to work with member states to make sure that the directive is applied correctly. you will know that the commission has adopted guidelines on better transposition of the directive. the guidelines are from july 2009, so we are now looking at the way member states are applying those guidelines in practical terms. the commission welcomes the report on homophobia and discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation issued by the fundamental rights agency. that report (which was drawn up at parliament’s request) provides comprehensive and important data on the human rights of gays, lesbians, bisexuals, transsexuals and trans-gender persons. this data is needed, and i have asked the agency to deepen research in this area – as i declared publicly during the international day against homophobia on 18 may – because we need to know what is going on in practice in the member states. the forthcoming annual report on the application of the charter, which is due in november, will deal with discrimination and homophobia. you can count on my determination to act within the framework of the powers that the treaty has entrusted to the commission. i am sure you understand that this is, for some member states, a very delicate political and social question, because the way of looking at things is not the same all across europe. however, the fact that more and more member states are either recognising or applying marriages, irrespective of the sexual orientation of the partners, is a very good sign. we have to advance step by step. we must, most of all on the basis of our guidelines, bring the member states to accept these rules. for many this is very new and very unusual. for some it is very shocking. we have to advance cautiously, because what we do not want – and i believe all those who have spoken here of their experiences, from their hearts, understand this too – is not to be too harsh. in saying this i am not speaking about the basic values, which are not in question, but we have to bring resisting member states, step by step, to accept the general rules. what we do not want is to have people starting to oppose same-sex marriages, the recognition of rights and non-discrimination. let us see, in the report, the details of how, in the different member states and in different regions of the member states, things are being applied. i do not want there to be any doubts about the fundamentals, about the rights of free movement, irrespective of sexual orientation or ethnicity. these we are going to apply step by step. we will come back to this. some members have given a very personal insight, and i wish to thank them. it is very important for me to grasp the sensitive nature of this issue, which is not only a matter of principle but also a matter of human beings living their personal lives. thank you for that. i am sure that together we will manage to change the situation in the coming months and years.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i listened carefully to those who spoke on a subject, a subject which certainly has its own peculiarities and specificities. unlike what has happened recently, when we have dwelt for a long time on a subject which is too much debated and of little practical substance - that of freedom of expression in europe - this is a very topical and concrete subject. i would remind you that some time ago, when the resolution on the stockholm programme was adopted, an amendment with characteristics essentially similar to the content of the question we are discussing today was not approved in committee. probably because, with reference to the words in that resolution that the identity and national sensitivity of each member state must be respected the committee's awareness was probably that which has recently informed the european court of justice, which stated, with reference to a specific case, that denying marriage to same-sex couples is not a violation of a right. i personally believe that certain fundamental positions should be guaranteed, because what concerns the private and personal sphere of a person must indeed be respected, but at the same time i cannot but take due account of the words spoken by commissioner reding a short while ago, namely that a gradual step is needed, made up of small concrete steps towards recognition which can be achieved over time. we have made a lot of progress, but we cannot ignore the concept of the family, which for us is the natural family, with a man and a woman and the procreation of children, as opposed to another model which we take into account, but which is not the one to which the european community still refers.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, europe cannot take the place of the sovereign people and impose on others what it likes or dislikes, because europe has a motto, if you do not know it: "united in diversity", meaning each is master in his own home. the questions before the house today are very similar and seek to get the commission to impose an obligation on member states to recognise same-sex marriages and to avoid any form of discrimination in matters of custody. the northern league group cannot accept that the european union should replace the rights of peoples to protect their own cultures, traditions and roots. the traditional marriage, that is, between a man and a woman who perhaps give birth to children, is the only one that can and should be recognized. any other form of same-sex union may exist, but it certainly cannot and should not be considered marriage. we are even more alarmed by the questioners' demand that same-sex couples be granted child custody. what education might they receive? no one wants to prohibit homosexual couples from helping, for example by adopting children, orphans or poor people, but it is one thing to help them grow up in their families or in their country, it is another to ask for their adoption. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card, rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a danger, it is something that, as far as we are concerned, the majority of the italian people - and i speak for italy - cannot accept. it's different. secondly, that the couple can exist, live their lives in peace, and not demand anything more, like the man-woman couple who may also have children as europe continues to age well, is another matter. i said it before: we believe that the couple who are entitled to a formal, official marriage are a man and a woman because they can procreate, and the ultimate goal of an ageing europe is to have children.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is the foundation of the european community: the union is a community of diverse communities, of diverse sensibilities, of diverse opinions. the ability to bring these different sensibilities together is the basis of europe, of the european parliament, and so this debate, difficult as it is, is a debate that must be tackled. i was particularly interested in a phrase by commissioner reding when he said that we must proceed with caution to avoid popular unrest. it is right to give rights to all european citizens, to be able to fight any discrimination and to defend freedom, but freedom is for everyone, including those communities which have historically, for millennia, conceived of society as based on the family, the traditional man-woman family. so there must also be freedom to express the view that the family is a union between a man and a woman. of course, all can contract different unions, but one cannot equate a family of one man and one woman, which ensures the continuation of the species, with other unions, however respectable. of course, the debate must continue, because in a europe which must be united with respect for all sensitivities, even such difficult, complicated and heated discussions must be resolved, but with respect for all the communities. because we must not allow - and i appeal to commissioner reding - that the phrase 'people's riots' undermine the unity of europe.
madam president, i refer to the speech by my colleague and ask: if spain has had this opportunity to change, and if the spanish people have accepted this change, why not respect the sensibilities of other countries that want to move in a different way? why go to other countries to make decisions, offending the historical sensibilities of other communities? europe is a set of communities and if one of them does not understand the values of the other, it can never really become europe. so, if we respect the choices made in spain, why not respect the choices of other communities?
but it is enough to respond with the 2008 decision of the court of justice, which goes completely against what you said and gave the member states the possibility, in these areas, to be able to legislate and to be able to somehow not respect debates like this. so i'm sticking to the 2008 ruling of the court of justice.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, for me it is easy, because the law is very clear. it is about non-discrimination, the right to free movement and mutual recognition. let me stress this. if you live in a legally-recognised same-sex partnership, or marriage, in country a, you have the right – and this is a fundamental right – to take this status and that of your partner to country b. if not, it is a violation of eu law, so there is no discussion about this. this is absolutely clear, and we do not have to hesitate on this. this is the law today, and you can count on me to help you to enforce this. but wait, that is the law. the reality sur le terrain – in real terms – might be different, and we have to change this reality. this is the reason why i have said that we have these bilateral meetings at technical level with member states in order to see how we can change their way of applying something which is very clear in legal terms. permit me here to disagree with baroness ludford. we normally do agree in our analysis, but here, we do not. the directive on free movement does not give the member states discretion to discriminate – no eu directive does. we should not allow a mythology to be developed saying that, actually, it is possible to discriminate. we have to be very firm on the principles. i think here we agree again, do we not? so for me there can be no discussion about the basis of what our legal system is and how it has to be interpreted. we will try to have this applied everywhere in the same way as it is written down, and here you find me on your side. there was a question: when is this going to happen? now! not in five or 10 years. i do not know about a change of mentality in the different member states. i can just tell you about the experience which i have as a politician over so many decades. sometimes governments are more cautious than their populations, and this has been said from personal experience in this chamber. sometimes the population react in a very natural, relaxed way, and the government thinks that there is a very big problem. what i try to do is to bring the governments to understand this. if there is no understanding, then more harsh measures have to be applied.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. no one denies that non-discrimination is a fundamental value. and no one denies that the choice of one's partner is a matter of personal freedom, but here europe wants to enter a field that is not its responsibility. for us, as enshrined in the italian constitution, the family is based on marriage between a man and a woman. and in this sense our legislation is being developed, responding to the culture, traditions and sensibilities of the italian people. and we must remember that under the principle of subsidiarity - reinforced by the lisbon treaty - the european union cannot intervene in areas of national competence, such as family law. article 9 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union itself states that 'the right to marry and to found a family shall be guaranteed in accordance with the national laws governing the exercise thereof'. the matter is therefore a matter for the individual states. every people has the right to protect its national identity and its beliefs with respect for all other peoples of the international community. as established by the 'unity in diversity' which is the foundation of the european union.
in writing. in the european union, the framework for legislation on same-sex couples is very diverse and there are profound differences between the member states. incidents of discrimination against same-sex couples occur almost every day. hence the need to enforce directives 2000/43/ec and 2000/78/ec on combating discrimination based on religion, disability and sexual orientation. the european union must do more to ensure that same-sex couples have the same rights as heterosexual couples when they move to another eu member state to study or work under the directive on the free movement of european citizens.
the next item is the oral question to the commission on long-term care for the elderly, by elizabeth lynne, pervenche berès, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (o-0102/2010 - b7-0457/2010).
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, let me start by repeating what has been said at the beginning of the discussion about the diversity of europe. we have 27 member states with different social conditions and material conditions and this is the main reason why the commission is now working on a quality framework, not something stronger in terms of legislation. we believe this is now the right concept and we should see how it works together with parliament, with which we have discussed these issues repeatedly in the recent period. one key point where i think we can draw strong conclusions is how long-term care connects with our jobs agenda, how we see a strong capacity for job creation, but it also sets us the task of including this into our skills agenda and finding out how we can do more to train and develop a larger pool of carers who can provide professional services in this area. it is indeed an open question how far we have to formalise these services because, as has been said, much of the work that is being done is informal. it is done, or can be done, by relatives and within families. regulating issues, raising standards or demanding certain conditions within the framework of families and relatives is clearly something which would be highly problematic. meanwhile formalising these services and this work would add to costs and raise taxation issues, and we would easily find ourselves in a dead end in a different direction. so there is no easy answer, while there are indeed compelling grounds to improve the conditions of those who need these services and are dependent on long-term care, but also to recognise those who provide this work. what we certainly can do is collect and disseminate best practices, for example by using the open method of coordination. i can say, at this late hour, that in a few hours’ time i will meet some ministers from the belgian government in liège at a conference on pensions. this will be a good opportunity to convey the words of parliament on this question and connect it with our work on pensions, because these subjects are clearly interlinked in terms of both social security in general and an adequate income for the elderly. we have a longer-term plan to follow up our work on pensions with a serious effort on demography. the forthcoming hungarian and polish presidencies are equally interested in this subject, and we are exploring the right framework for the deliverables involved. this work will be followed by the european year on active ageing, which is not only about employment – and definitely not simply about extending the pensionable age – but is also about doing more to preserve health and to upgrade lifelong learning, lifelong teaching, capacities and institutions in order to improve the quality of life. so this is fundamentally a framework in which we can, i think, continue our work. it is full of challenges, but with the ethical commitment we all share, i think we can produce results.
i have received a motion for a resolution1 pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 9 september 2010. i join in thanking the interpreters. 1 and see the minutes.
member of the commission. − madam president, firstly i would like to express commissioner potočnik’s disappointment at not being able to be here today. he is presently in ghent, participating at the informal ministerial meeting on the eu position for the 10th meeting of the conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity, which is to take place this october in nagoya. i wish to thank parliament, and in particular the rapporteurs, ms elisabeth jeggle and former mep mr neil parish, the shadows and all those who have worked equally hard in the preparation of this very important piece of legislation. i am delighted to be able to note the excellent collaboration between parliament, the council and the commission. the negotiation between the institutions and the consultations before and during the co-decision procedure proved to be challenging, as the diverse and often sharply divergent views and needs of member states, industry, academia and animal welfare advocates had to be taken into account and reflected as far as possible in the text. i believe that the result constitutes a fair and workable piece of legislation which successfully strikes a balance between promoting european research and competitiveness and also ensuring that full regard is paid to animal welfare. the revision was much needed as it was vital to significantly improve conditions for experimental animals, clarify the legal obligations and ensure a level playing field within the eu. once the new legislation is implemented, the european union will be able to lay claim to having the highest standards of experimental animal welfare in the world, lifting the bar throughout the 27 member states of the european union in a manner that will not compromise, but foster, the competitiveness of our research and industry. we consider that the text put to your vote today retains all the key elements of the commission’s original proposal. i therefore believe that if your vote is positive, then the commission’s ambitious objectives for this revision will have been achieved.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. whether they are used for experimental purposes, for agricultural purposes, as pets or in the wild, animals deserve protection. but in my values, an animal is an animal and a human is a human. and there is a clear order of values. for example, if we have been discussing in the last few days that animal experiments would now seem to be possible without first anesthetizing the animals, then i must say that this is true, you can take blood from animals without anesthetizing them. but that's what happens to people. i don't think any of us have ever been sedated while having blood drawn. the progress of medicine is a great benefit to mankind and unfortunately it may require animal testing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we will continue to require animal experiments! i am in favour of avoiding animal testing when other methods of equivalent value are available. the model we have guarantees this with one exception: that these other methods do not involve humans or human reproductive cells. we have found a good compromise, a compromise which protects research and the european site, a compromise which also protects animals, and we should agree to this compromise today, and thus ensure greater protection of animals and meaningful research in europe!
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is important and necessary to strike a balance between the need to carry out scientific research and the need to protect animal welfare. at present, there is a lack of protection for animals used in scientific procedures. new scientific knowledge can be used to promote alternatives to replace or reduce the use of animals. methods or procedures should be used that cause as little pain and suffering as possible, but without hindering scientific experimentation in the fight against disease. it is therefore right to review european legislation on the protection of animals in order to achieve satisfactory results while preserving the needs of the research industry, given the need to continue scientific research for the benefit of human health and at the same time protecting the welfare of animals still needed for scientific purposes.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after a year and a half of difficult negotiations between parliament, the council and the commission, we have finally reached a compromise text on the sensitive issue of animal testing. it was a difficult job and i would like to thank our rapporteur, mrs elizabeth jeggle, and our shadow rapporteurs for conducting such an intense negotiation. the text was approved in the committee on agriculture and rural development, which i have the honour of chairing, with no votes against and only four abstentions. it is a good balance between the need to improve the welfare of animals used in experiments and the need to allow progress in medical research. the proposal aims to analyse and improve the 1986 directive, which is now obsolete, and to harmonise european rules in this area. we all have a particular concern about animal testing, and so does the public, but i can say with conviction, ladies and gentlemen, that we are about to vote on a reasonable text, the result of serious and rigorous work, which represents an advance on existing legislation in terms of animal protection, but which at the same time does not lose sight of the moral responsibility we have to advance medical research.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur and those who have worked with her have certainly done a difficult job for which we thank them. i cannot hide from you that i, and certain members of the italian government with whom i identify, are perplexed by a problem which, after 24 years, still seems to us to have not been solved in the right way. some colleagues have pointed out that animals have different sensitivities than humans. in fact, no animal would ever do what is happening in iran, which has already happened and will happen again. animals do not generally torture, stone and tell those lies that are so typical even of our political world. we have the right to ask these animals to be useful for better scientific research and for the improvement of human health, but we have no right to ask that they continue to be used for useless, repetitive experiments, which only serve to pocket money for some pseudo-researchers. we know very well that in vitro experiments or computer simulations of human metabolism can now achieve more certain results than those obtained by animal experiments, because it is often not possible to transfer the result of the experiment from one species to another, nor in the animal world, nor from animal to man. for these reasons we would like to see this provision revised to be more in keeping with modernity and mutual respect.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for the result achieved. i believe that we have achieved the best possible compromise between the needs of research and ensuring the welfare of animals used for scientific purposes. unfortunately, animal research is still fundamental, there are no alternatives. computer simulations and cell cultures are not enough, say not politicians but researchers. so i would like to remind you that some very serious diseases have been defeated because of tests carried out on living species. i would remind you that 98% of these species are rodents and therefore only a small proportion of the larger species are used. i would also like to remind you that thanks to these tests, we now have treatments for leukemia, diabetes and certain types of cancer. finally, i would like to remind you that researchers are the first to want to avoid unnecessary suffering and i think that all you have to do is visit them at work to confirm this. it is true that there are still some parts which are worrying. i would like to mention one that has not yet been mentioned: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal welfare committees are not merely a means of ensuring that animals are protected, but also a means of ensuring that animals are protected. this raises some alarm amongst those who work in the field, because many laboratories already have ethics committees and others are being set up. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, 'acta est fabula, applaudite!' said the roman actors at the end of the show. the play is over and perhaps we are on the eve of that conclusion. but perhaps it is not yet time to applaud. during this debate we have had important reassurances from mr karel de gucht, but we know that 64 per cent of counterfeit products come from china, which is not part of acta, and so we will have to assess whether the game is worth the candle, whether - in the absence of real advantages, as the commissioner concluded - it will be appropriate to put our signature on it. the reasons for concern that still persist are few but significant. much has been said on the internet and we appreciate the efforts of the commission, but our vigilance continues. on access to medicines, i would like to reiterate what has already been called for by other colleagues: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. it is very important to provide access to medicines at competitive prices, which are crucial for patients in developing countries. the question i would like to ask is whether the doha declaration on trips on public health will be included at least at the preamble level in the acta text. finally, on geographical indications, we find ourselves in a potentially paradoxical situation, because trademarks which might infringe geographical indications would have greater protection than the geographical indications themselves. here too, trips offers a more solid basis in many respects, and we therefore call for vigilance and rigidity.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commissioner and the council for this debate, although i must complain that it is difficult to talk about something without having the proper documentation. there is nothing on the internet, the parliament's services have not responded because the commission does not make all the texts available. it is therefore inevitable to discuss this in a general way, but it is useful to deal with this subject, which is part of the whole european plan for the protection of our products, and therefore of our undertakings and our workers, even though there is resistance, for example with regard to regulation on trade marks and product regulation. we have a duty to protect our workers by checking whether there are any forms of unfair competition or forms of competition based on the exploitation of workers and in this case also on counterfeiting and forgery. it is therefore necessary to combat these unacceptable forms of competition, precisely in order to protect those who produce and work in europe and who, with their commitment, intelligence and participation, earn their living and contribute to the development of our continent.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to rule 175 of parliament's rules of procedure, i ask that the text be referred back to committee. we have been waiting for this directive for many, many years, but as i have said in many other speeches, there are certain points which must be changed to ensure that animals are properly protected. the adoption of this legislation will allow experimentation for educational purposes and will allow the reuse of the same animal several times, even in procedures that cause suffering. it will not encourage any alternative methods which are considered scientifically valid. it is not a question of taking an extreme position, but rather of respecting article 13 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which provides for the welfare of animals as sentient beings to be taken fully into account. the aim is not to put a brake on research but rather to encourage it along an ethically sustainable path. it is unacceptable to say that we approve this directive and then amend it in the years to come. let us therefore take responsibility for making the necessary corrections now. it is not a political or ideological position, it is common sense, and common sense has no political colour.
president of the agri committee. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as chairman of the committee on agriculture and rural development, which is responsible for this matter, i am opposed to the postponement of the jeggle report because our committee, after an intensive debate lasting more than a year and a half, has already expressed itself clearly and unequivocally in favour of the compromise reached by the common position, without expressing any vote against it. there have been only a few abstentions. i see no reason, therefore, for a revision of the text: there are all the elements to vote today.
mr president, since i do not see the request for a roll-call vote on my list of votes, and given the importance of the subject and the agreement between the groups, i would propose that the final resolution be put to the vote by roll-call.
mr president, it seems to me that on this delicate subject of the protection of animals used for scientific purposes, a good compromise has been found between the needs of those who carry out research using animals and the welfare standards for animals used or intended for use for scientific purposes. that is why i voted in favour of mrs jeggle's report. at the same time, i agree with the obligation for member states to refrain from using animals where european union legislation recognises different methods or testing strategies for the same outcome.
mr president, ... reach agreement at second reading on this controversial report on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. i voted in favour of the agreement because it seems to me to be a balanced text which protects animals without compromising scientific research. the agreement emphasizes that animal research should be allowed where it is not possible to proceed through scientifically satisfactory testing. the rules are clear: establishes criteria for the treatment of animals for scientific use and mandates member states to ensure that the number of animals used in projects is minimised. without this report it is useless to repeat that europe is increasingly in need of scientific research.
mr president, the debate on the new employment guidelines in the europe 2020 strategy is taking place in the context of the economic crisis, which will certainly have a significant impact on the labour market for many years to come. the current crisis has shown the absence of effective mechanisms for reacting promptly to its signals and thus demonstrates the need for a strengthened and effective coordination of the economic policies of the european union. the crisis has also highlighted the close interdependence between the market and labour economies of the member states. i therefore believe that the efforts of the european union and the member states in implementing the europe 2020 objectives require a strong commitment to ensure that investments in sustainable economic growth also facilitate the creation of sustainable jobs. the strategy should avoid a new economic and social collapse by close coordination with structural and cohesion policy. if these new policy guidelines are to be effective, appropriate efforts will have to be made to overcome the socioeconomic disparities between member states and between regions. the structural funds and the european union cohesion fund for the current programming period and the future financial instruments of the european union can play a crucial role in this regard.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour because i am convinced that this decision is generally positive, even if i am not entirely satisfied, because we could certainly have been more courageous, particularly on the issue of access to work for young people and women and the adoption of the flexicurity method to combat precariousness, which is a scourge for the whole of europe. i would like to express my appreciation for the work done by the rapporteur, despite the limited time available to him. the attempt to simplify and give a new, simpler look to the guidelines on work, which today are four in number and clearly identify the objectives of europe 2020, is certainly a positive one. it is also a good thing, i must say, that we are trying to take account of the mistakes made in the past, which led to the partial failure of the europe 2010 objectives. the fact that this document contains interesting indications on the merits of the matter is a positive result, since it is a means of developing the idea of restoring to work its function as a right in the evolution of mankind and no longer as a mere means of survival.
mr president, the exit from the financial crisis and the beginning of the economic recovery which is, albeit at different speeds, characterising the european union are unfortunately being implemented to the detriment of employment and workers. this trend is in sharp contrast to the commission's programme, which we voted on in this house, and to the guidelines of the specific europe 2020 programme, which envisages the need for economic growth to be accompanied by characteristics of inclusiveness. the integrated guidelines we voted on today, including the seventh, which calls on the member states of the union to reduce structural unemployment through concrete action, are a very positive step in this direction. it must always be remembered that work is the foundation of entire systems such as the italian one, whose article 1 states that 'italy is a democratic republic founded on work', but work is also the foundation of human dignity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the rapporteur's approach, which, while supporting the reduction in the number of integrated guidelines proposed by the commission, also states that this small number of guidelines and common objectives at european level cannot and should not guide the policies of the member states because of their clarity and operational usefulness. i also agree with the rapporteur's statement that if europe 2020 is to be effective and the employment guidelines are to be effective, we must make appropriate efforts to overcome socioeconomic disparities between member states and between regions in europe, including through the use of the structural funds and the cohesion fund.
mr president, i asked for an early vote on this motion for a resolution, i am one of the signatories and i voted in favour, but i must admit that i expected more and that i expected more from this parliament. of course, it was an urgent decision, but it is also a challenging decision. urgent to save the life of sakineh mohammadi-ashtiani, challenging for our parliament, because we cannot continue to condemn, denounce, deplore and stigmatize and continue to have the same behaviour and the same attitudes towards countries like iran. i believe that iran has shown a greater arrogance towards the international community, the member states and the european institutions. he is indifferent to any recall and any appeal. the situation today is different and more serious, because in the last year iran's behaviour has worsened seriously and there have been incidents which have contravened the commitments made by the iranian government at international level. i believe that more stringent measures and sanctions should be taken against this country by the individual member states and by the european institutions. we cannot continue to have diplomatic relations with a state which does not accept and does not listen to the appeals of our community.
mr president, this resolution is the first important step towards ensuring that this parliament, in all its activities and at every sitting, can continue the battle which today is to save the life of sakineh, but above all to fight against an oppressive and inhuman regime. i believe, however, that the commission and the council will have to be more deliberate and decisive in the future and that every word spoken in this house must be like a stone placed at the feet of those who practice stoning, to build a wall of shame around them and to erase them from the human community. sakineh must be saved, and with her the women and men who in the world are still victims of a barbaric cruelty, unknown even to the most savage and primitive animals. it is the beast, understood as the devil, that today moves the hands and lips of unworthy leaders and false religionists, whom the almighty has already condemned without possibility of mercy. they should know that if they do not stop now, their time is marked forever and so will ours if we do not always be vigilant in helping the victims of a barbaric society.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the jeggle report because it is the result of a long and intensive process during which the rapporteur was able to reach important agreements on such a difficult subject as the use of animals in experimentation. i did not agree to refer the matter to the relevant standing committee because it was precisely that committee, of which i am a member, which highly appreciated and shared the work of my colleague mrs jeggle. research must go, it is important for the development of medicine and for health and the prevention of many diseases.
in writing. i voted against my group's recommendations on the directive on animal testing, even though i have fallen into the position of a supporter of scientific research, which i am. this directive is highly unfavourable to animals: 'extends' the threshold of acceptable pain in the experiment from 'mild' to 'moderate', allows experimentation on stray dogs and cats, leaving to the discretion of the researchers the possibility of experimentation without anaesthesia or analgesia on suffering animals; allows the same animal to be used several times, including in painful procedures, and to keep social animals such as dogs and primates in isolation; the commission has therefore decided to initiate the procedure provided for in article 93 (2) of the treaty in respect of the following products: i have the human sensibility not to accept unnecessary atrocities and the political sensibility to understand that if europe had not adopted this directive, then some of the scientific research would inevitably have moved elsewhere. this european directive represents a serious step backwards to which all member states will be obliged to adapt their national legislation. i believe that a revision of the directive in favour of the animal world, combined with greater incentives for scientific research in europe, would be the real solution for a society which likes to call itself civilised.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the directive on the protection of animals ensures equal conditions for businesses and researchers by standardizing the procedures of the countries concerned, but it does not move towards real protection of animals: the few rules for the adoption of alternative methods have been reduced. there are many gaps, and there should be a push towards more advanced experimental methods that can replace animal testing: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. for obvious reasons it is not possible to propose a total abolition of vivisection, but i am calling for amendments to the text to include non-invasive practices and to establish a ban on the use of animals for forensic investigations, for teaching, avoiding derogations from the humane method of killing and the ban on the use of endangered or wild animals by setting up a european guarantee committee. europe must say no to unnecessary experimentation: too often the same experiments, already carried out and consolidated, are proposed again only to receive funding: we receive substantiated reports of experiments on animals with severed vocal cords. science tells us that most of the experiments done on animals are not replicable for human treatment.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is easy to take a negative view of animal testing, because everyone is sorry to see animals suffering or being vivisected for scientific purposes, but we are legislators and we cannot be caught up in the momentary emotion. if we are to restrict the use of animals in scientific testing too much, we should be aware that such tests should be carried out on humans. we cannot think that a new active ingredient, a drug, a chemotherapy system is not first tested on animals, because as i said before the alternative would be to use sick people as guinea pigs. it should also be noted that pharmaceutical companies have no interest in using guinea pigs and in particular primates unless it is strictly necessary, given the high costs involved in such trials.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted against the agreement reached by parliament and the council at second reading on the draft directive on the use of animals in scientific research. i am not saying no to the development of research but i am calling for the suffering of animals to be reduced, because the revision of the directive proposes certain practices which are contrary to this aim, such as the possibility of experimenting with several animals on the same animal. i also believe that the use of other satisfactory scientific methods which do not involve the use of animals should be further developed.
in writing. - mr president, i wish to give the reasons for my vote on this report because i consider the subject of this report to be of the greatest importance for the future of the labour market in europe. this proposal contains broad guidelines on economic policies on employment to be implemented within the eu. the economic crisis is not over and the employment crisis is being dragged along. and while there are encouraging signs of recovery, the labour market is still largely flat and the number of unemployed is still very high. but there are differences in europe: in spain and greece, for example, the number of unemployed is worrying and mostly affects young people. in my country, fortunately, but also thanks to the good work of the italian government, the number of unemployed has not increased so dramatically. the italian government, it must be acknowledged, has been at the forefront of promoting flexibility and dynamism in the labour market, and this recipe seems to be paying off. some governments too concerned with protecting workers' rights have let workers themselves lose their jobs. but being more flexible and ready for a new and competitive labour market saves jobs and creates the economic conditions for more to be created.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the lisbon strategy states that the european union must improve its productivity and competitiveness through its workforce. today the target has not been fully achieved as the unemployment rate is still high. it is important to analyse the problems which are causing the slowdown in full employment. the elimination of discrimination on grounds of sex, race, ethnic origin and religion would be a major step forward, allowing young people and women in particular to be more competitive in the world of work. women also have difficulty in combining the roles of mother and worker: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. another category to be protected is young people who risk being unemployed for years: they have high theoretical skills and knowledge, but lack practical and practical skills. the school must be closer to the demands of enterprises and prepare students for the world of work. companies, on the other hand, must focus on the younger generation by giving them the opportunity to develop professionally.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the romanian colleague's report because i share its spirit and its final message. the proposal stresses the importance of increasing the labour force in order to promote the reduction of structural unemployment and devotes particular attention to continuing vocational training. the central role is given to education by improving the current education systems and encouraging young people to access higher education. in addition, new efforts will be made in the coming years to better promote social inclusion and fight poverty.
in writing. - mr president, on 27 april 2010 the commission presented a proposal on the 'europe 2020 integrated guidelines' setting out the framework for the new strategy and the reforms to be implemented by the member states. discussions on the new employment guidelines 2020 are ongoing in the context of an economic crisis that is certain to have a significant impact on the labour market for many years to come. despite some encouraging signs of a recovery in growth, the economy remains fragile in most member states. the direct effects of the crisis on employment have therefore yet to be fully felt. as a result, every effort was made to ensure a sustainable recovery, to strengthen the job-creating potential of european economies and to help people find work. it is therefore very important that the european employment strategy for the next decade addresses and reconciles the immediate and pressing challenges arising from the crisis with those of the medium and long term.
in writing. - mr president, the report adopted today is an important tool for promoting new employment policies in the context of the europe 2020 strategy. it is important to stress that the text calls for concrete action by the member states to increase employment levels, with particular attention to promoting the mobility of young people. the objective of creating new and better jobs, reducing unemployment and increasing labour market participation by 75% of the working population must be the goal to be achieved in the coming years. the working population must become the centrepiece of any economic development policy at community level. without a job, any kind of future project, to travel, to buy a house, to have a child, becomes a utopia, a project that is difficult to achieve.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is a report on which we cannot agree because it seeks to promote the implementation of measures to facilitate access to the world of work for certain categories, in particular the roma. we cannot accept that instead of defending the rights of those who live in their own country, we should be facilitating those who are in many respects only guests. it is clear that in times of crisis each state must help its citizens, possibly with projects targeted at those who are in precarious conditions or without employment.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the joint resolution has my full support as a political representative, but first and foremost as a woman: iran is today the symbol of radical islamist violence and fanaticism against women and their basic rights. we are rightly calling on the islamic republic and its rulers to respect the international human rights charters to which iran is legally bound. the sakineh case, like the others in the text we voted for, confirms that tehran today is not only completely opposed to the canons of political and cultural modernity, but also stands on the level of illegality from the point of view of international norms, failing to comply with the obligations contracted by ratifying the convention on the rights of the child and the international covenant on civil and political rights. the resolution is hard, and hard enough, at a time when we must make iran feel all the strength and pressure that this institution is capable of, so that the international mobilization under way to stop the islamic state executioner can have the desired effect. my vote is therefore very much in favour.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the resolution in the hope that this barbarity will end and that human rights will be respected for all the women and men in sakineh's situation. i would like to stress that what we are witnessing is the result of the application of fundamentalist islamic law, which some people would like to introduce into our democratic europe. the death penalty by stoning is a form of torture. in recent years, hundreds of women have been stoned to death in iran for the crime of adultery, and at least 40 others are currently in prison awaiting the same fate. not to mention the thousands of women who have been arrested for political reasons and often tortured and executed.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let every word spoken in this chamber be a stone laid at the feet of those who practice stoning in order to build a wall of shame around them and to erase them from the human community. sakineh must be saved and with her the women and men who in the world are still victims of a barbarity and cruelty unknown even to the most savage and primitive animals. it is the beast, understood as the devil, that today moves the hands and lips of unworthy leaders and false religionists whom the almighty has already condemned without possibility of mercy. let them know that if they do not stop now, their time is up and there will be no requite for them now or in eternity.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution and i am glad that parliament voted almost unanimously in favour. it is occasions like these that demonstrate the persuasive power of democracy. the mobilization that europe and italy in particular have put in place to support sakineh must be strongly supported and i hope that the situation in iran will improve. i believe that the european parliament's primary role is to provide light and hope for all victims of human rights violations, and i hope that the iranian regime will rethink its policy and respect women more and establish a more transparent and less medieval judicial system.
ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is now resuming and i have the pleasure and also the pleasure of announcing a report which i have heard from some news agencies, according to which the iranian foreign ministry has suspended the execution of sakineh mohammadi-ashtiani, a matter on which a few hours ago a majority, which was almost unanimous, of our parliament spoke in a compact and united manner. we are very happy about this, but the battle continues, because we must now insist on the revision of the process and the european parliament must play its part in the path it has always followed, which is the defence of human rights throughout the world.
the next item is the oral question to the council on arms exports by mr arturs krišjānis kariņš, mr tunne kelam, mr vytautas landsbergis, mr gunnar hökmark, mr bendt bendtsen, mr jacek saryusz-wolski, mr ville itälä, mrs sandra kalniete, mr inese vaidere, mr michael gahler, mr josé ignacio salafranca sánchez-neyra and mrs laima liucija andrikienė, on behalf of the group of the european people's party (o-0076/2010 - b7-0320/2010).
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i can only welcome the opportunity this afternoon to look at arms export controls. the high representative, mrs ashton, was unable to be present at this part-session and has asked the presidency to take her place for this debate and i will therefore try to answer a number of questions which have come to us on this subject. as you know, the european union has for many years played a leading role in the control of arms exports, both at regional and international level, and the objective is clear: we want to prevent the export of military technology that could be used for undesirable purposes such as internal repression or international aggression. more than a decade ago, the council adopted a european union code of conduct on arms exports which set out a set of criteria for the export of conventional arms. the code was replaced in 2008 by a common position which introduces a number of new elements, making the eu the most comprehensive international arms export control regime in the world. the legally binding provisions of the common position help to ensure that member states export arms in a responsible and transparent manner. the common position aims to coordinate effectively national policies on arms export controls, in particular through an information and consultation mechanism for refusals. and under this mechanism, when a member state is considering granting an export authorization for a transaction identical to a transaction that has been previously refused by another member state, it must consult the latter and inform all member states of its final decision. in other words, a member state which grants an authorisation for a transaction which has been refused by another member state must justify its decision to all member states. so, in answering questions about consultations, the situation is clear: the common position provides for systematic consultation only, of course, in cases where an identical transaction has previously been refused authorization. in general, the delegations of the member states within the relevant council structures also exchange information frequently and regularly on arms control and in particular on so-called 'sensitive' destinations. member states often seek the opinion of other members of the council on any destination which might be a cause for concern or about which there would be doubts. this regular exchange of information is a central element of the european union's arms export control policy. during 2009, consultations between member states covered, for information purposes, a total of 14 third countries of destination. the member states then provided information on the grounds on which they decided to grant or refuse export authorisations to these destinations. that is the way we proceed, mr president, in terms of information, control and interaction between member states to see how we are authorizing arms exports. i shall be glad to take up in a reply any other point you may wish to raise in the course of the discussion this afternoon.
the strengthening of the industrial and technological base of european defence is an essential dimension of the construction of a common defence. but it needs common rules and a coordinated approach to strengthen the development and competitiveness of the european defence industry and, at the same time, to make this development consistent with europe's international principles and commitments. the common position of december 2008, which sets out procedures and criteria for military exports to third countries, is therefore an important step forward, together with the internal defence market directive. as is well known, there is no general consultation mechanism in these procedures. however, the common position makes a very appropriate reference to the need to strengthen cooperation and convergence in this field within the framework of the cfsp. until the desirable progress on this front and on the creation of a common defence makes it possible to adopt even more binding mechanisms, it would be appropriate for the cooperation and convergence provided for in article 7 not to remain on paper only and for the annual report on military exports to be made known to parliament. of course, the question put by the members of the house seems implicitly - now it has been made explicit - not to be limited to general questions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the common position is respected. on the contrary, such exports can strengthen and make more binding the euro-russian bond and cooperation in the field of security, which should however go beyond the bilateral sphere and be addressed, discussed and carried out to the full in a european dimension.
president of the council. - mr president, this was a very interesting debate and i should like to return to two concepts and make a number of clarifications. first, i would like to reframe the notion of responsibility. article 4 (2) of the common position provides that the decision to transfer or refuse to transfer military technology or equipment is left to the national discretion of each member state. this responsibility therefore lies first and foremost at national level and the common position does not of course remove this responsibility from the member states but it introduces a wide range of provisions to ensure effective coordination and exchange of information between them. the second concept i want to come back to is the concept of transparency. the common position provides that member states are to draw up a report on their arms exports each year. an eu report based on the national reports shall be published annually and shall provide information on the financial value of authorisations granted, broken down by destination and by category of military equipment, as well as on the number of authorisations refused and any subsequent consultations by member states. in addition to the annual report of the european union, the common position provides for member states to publish national reports on exports of military technology and equipment. the objective of transparency set out in the common position therefore applies both at the level of the european union and at the national level, and the european union must, of course, lead by example in this respect. i should also like to say that the common position is - and some of you have already said this - a considerable step forward in relation to the code of conduct. it was adopted in december 2008, less than two years ago. it is reasonable to allow the new provisions introduced by the common position to have their effect before any revision of a new system such as this is undertaken, even though - i have heard you, and even understood you - making it more binding or combining it with a system of sanctions may seem attractive. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common position of the council on the conclusion of the interim agreement on trade in textile products between the european community and the republic of korea, which was adopted by the council on 14 june, is a very good one.
thank you, mr ries. i am glad that you have reiterated what i said at the beginning of the sitting when i announced this news. we are continuing this fight for the review of the process and in general for the affirmation of human rights throughout the world. the debate is closed.
the agenda includes the debate on the oral question to the commission on the draft law on israeli ngos, by franziska katharina brantner, nicole kiil-nielsen, on behalf of the green group, annemie neyts-uyttebroeck, alexandra thein, ivo vajgl, baroness sarah ludford, leonidas donskis, on behalf of the alde group, véronique de keyser, on behalf of the s&d group, and marie-christine vergiat, on behalf of the gue/ngl group (o-0046/2010 - b7-0319/2010).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate confirms many of the prejudices against the state of israel, prejudices which continue to influence the european union's policy in the middle east. we are discussing today a knesset resolution which no longer exists, having been substantially amended. the new bill calls for maximum transparency on foreign funding to ngos operating in israel, some of which are - it should be said - more political than humanitarian. this demand for transparency does not seem to me to be a restriction on freedom of association, but we are discussing it today as if it were. we should not be surprised, then, that some israeli politicians are wary of the european union, and this may explain why we are not at the table for the israeli-palestinian negotiations, despite being the main donor in the region. we are instead discussing how to make our funding procedures more transparent and verifiable to ngos and un agencies operating in the region. that would remove any doubt about our political positions. i'll conclude with a proposal: instead of discussing this law, why not organize a debate on the growing anti-semitism in europe, especially after the statements of commissioner de gucht?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, some people may object to the european parliament's reasons for discussing and judging a piece of legislation which a democratically elected parliament such as the israeli one is adopting. these are understandable objections, but there are at least two basic reasons why this debate is necessary. the particular situation in the middle east, which is the result of a conflict that has lasted for too long and does not concern only israel, the important role played by non-governmental organizations in that area, both in terms of humanitarian aid and development cooperation policies. moreover, this role should also be taken seriously by the israeli authorities, because without the work of so many ngos we would be faced with a situation of greater and more serious tension in those territories. it is therefore not surprising that the knesset should, when it intends to legislate on this subject, indicate two clear objectives in addition to the amendments it has made: ensuring transparency of non-instrumental funding for all actors, including, for example, organisations such as the settlers' organisation; the commission has already made it clear that it will not accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets.
author of the book. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the jordan river is a great asset not only for the environment but also for agriculture and the economy of jordan, israel and the palestinian territories, and we cannot but be concerned about the state of degradation in which it is found. we are concerned that some 98 per cent of the 1.3 billion cubic metres of natural freshwater in the lower reaches of the river is diverted each year and that large sections of the river are at risk of drying up. this is a loss in terms of biodiversity, but above all in terms of access to water sources for local people. several international actors, including the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly and the us senate, have already addressed the situation of the profound degradation of the jordan river. we too must call for action, not only from governments and local authorities, but also from the council, the commission and the member states for technical and financial assistance for the rehabilitation of the river. in particular, as stated in the joint resolution signed by all the political groups, which i thank for its strong support, we ask the commission to include a clear and concrete reference to this project in the neighbourhood policy action plans with israel, jordan and the palestinian authority. a first step could be to launch a joint study on the situation of the jordan river. we know very well that water is a precious and inalienable resource and i would therefore like to draw attention to the fact that a proper distribution of water must equitably meet the needs of all the people in the region. this is a matter of the utmost importance for the achievement of lasting peace and stability in the middle east. we look with hope to the resumption of peace negotiations in recent days between israelis and palestinians, negotiations which have identified water management as one of the essential issues. we hope that effective cooperation between governments, local communities and civil society organisations in the countries and territories concerned will be established as soon as possible in order to save the lower jordan, not only because of the high symbolic value of this river, but also to improve the living conditions of the local population.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs geringer's report highlights a fundamental issue for the process of european union integration: the need to ensure that the union is not a mere mere mere institutional institution. the need to develop legislation that is simple, transparent and understandable to the citizens of the union. i can only agree with the rapporteur's priorities, in particular respect for the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, the importance attached to impact assessments and the reduction of administrative burdens. as regards impact assessments, i would like to stress that the committee on legal affairs is actively working to ensure that the european commission develops mechanisms to guarantee the independence of the analyses carried out. this is a central question: ensuring high standards of impartiality in evaluations would increase the credibility of eu legislative proposals and streamline the process for their approval. i also believe that it is essential to work towards a clear reduction in the administrative burden arising from european law. the european commission wants to reduce these burdens by 25% by 2012, which would increase the union's gdp by 1.4% to €150 billion. a large part of the administrative burden of european origin is in fact the result of the inefficiency and inefficiency of the administrative procedures applied at national level. here 's an example . 72 legal acts imposed 486 information requirements, which led to the adoption of more than 10 000 implementing acts by the member states. while more controls are needed during the transposition phase of union law, greater cooperation by the council and the individual member states is also essential. in conclusion, i believe that greater cooperation with national parliaments, beyond the issues of subsidiarity, can make a decisive contribution towards more efficient union legislation that is ultimately closer to the needs of european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the completion of the internal market for postal services by the end of this year is an important step, but it would be appropriate for the commission to carry out an impact assessment - as some of my colleagues before me have mentioned - of the opening up of the postal market in order to better understand the needs of citizens. how does the commission intend to protect the right of european citizens living in hard-to-reach areas, such as mountain or rural areas, to receive regular mail, and what instruments does the commission intend to adopt to ensure that this happens? i also believe that this directive, which already exists, should not be used to justify the problem of social dumping. it is the member states which have to apply the directive and they have all the instruments to do so.
mr president, commissioner barnier, ladies and gentlemen, the transition from the management of postal services by individual states to a management for the whole of europe is an initiative which leads to the strengthening of the various territories, and i agree with that. i would ask, however, for a careful assessment of the costs, the timing and the real benefits. provision should be made for the timely distribution of mail, taking account of rural and rural areas. the networks linking the various countries and territories must be strengthened. stable employment must be guaranteed, not precarious employment, and any placements must be classified as retirement. the postal service costs can't raise we need.... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, (...) a step forward towards a better understanding of the texts we have adopted by the european citizens. there is still much to be done, but it is important that these steps are taken on a continuous basis. clearly we must find a way of balancing the different systems of law, such as the anglo-saxon and the continental latin systems. but the impact assessment process is also important, and it is a very important step which must also be taken into account in national legislation. i must point out a significant deficiency on their part. it will be important to come back to this subject and i think we will do so soon.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we did not vote for the people's party resolution - which is certainly more balanced - because of one fundamental point to which we wish to draw attention, namely the call to the european commission, to europe, to speed up the process of integrating romania and bulgaria into the schengen area. we believe - and we have already raised this alarm during enlargement - that these countries have not yet adopted strict policies of control in the issuing of identity cards and the recognition of nationality. is that true or not? the commission and parliament are aware that in these countries it is very easy to obtain certificates from non-european countries which allow illegal or illegitimate entry into the schengen area thanks to free movement. we must be very careful here, and it is totally irresponsible not to have done so and to have called for the enlargement of the schengen area, contrary to common sense. finally, i would like to express the hope that at the next meeting at least one of the pro-roma, pro-goodwill meps will report that he has welcomed a large roma family into his home - with the salary of a member of the european parliament - and added a seat at the table. it is not difficult to demonstrate in deeds, and not just in words, that we are a good person.
in writing. - mr president, we are very much in favour of the commission's report on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality because it provides for an impact assessment of the directives adopted. this assessment, which must be carried out with serious and independent cost-benefit analyses, is essential to avoid choices that place an undue burden on citizens and businesses. in particular, we must avoid the introduction of new administrative burdens by the new rules adopted by the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs geringer de oedenberg because it highlights the need for simple, clear and understandable legislation for european citizens. the report also stresses the need to ensure that the european parliament and the council are able to take part in the legislative process, and that the commission is able to take part in the legislative process. it is also worth noting that more streamlined and easily understandable laws are at the heart of developments in the definition of the future economic and social policy of the european union.
in writing. - the joint motion by the left wants to endorse an interpretation of directive 38/2004 which i believe is absolutely wrong politically and legally. the text of the directive is clear: there are limits to freedom of movement within the territory of the member states and, if a government deems it appropriate, it has the possibility of returning community citizens. the resolution also fails to acknowledge one fundamental fact: europe has already spent hundreds of millions of euros on roma social integration programmes in recent years, but no positive results have been achieved, given that the underlying problem is the very low ability of roma populations to integrate into the surrounding social fabric. a resolution which ignores the need for security which the citizens of our countries are asking us to satisfy, and which, on the contrary, opens the door to a very broad interpretation of the principle of the free movement of persons, is a further step towards the construction of a europe which is far removed from the feelings and demands of the people. i therefore vote against the joint resolution.
in writing. - mr president, i voted in favour of the weber resolution on the roma in europe because of its balanced and constructive content. it is not enough to cry out against discrimination, perhaps by exploiting real and very serious problems for the purposes of partisan polemics. of course, the principles of non-discrimination, free movement and the rights and duties that flow from them must be strongly reaffirmed, as the epp resolution does, but more importantly, it is necessary to initiate the concrete reforms that solve the problems, so as to implement the fundamental human rights. the issue of immigration is a european problem and it is time, as the weber resolution calls for, to address it at european level. the roma issue overlaps only partially with the integration issue and yet it has a specificity which must also be addressed within the european framework. the architecture of the union was conceived on the assumption of territorial stability for its peoples. the nomadism of a people may be a characteristic which must also be respected, but inclusion must be implemented in the spirit of solidarity, with european rules, without the improvisation of individual states. that is the indication of the resolution which has won our support.
in writing. - mr president, freedom of movement is a noble concept, but it risks becoming abstract if it is not accompanied by rigor and legality. those who deny these principles in the name of hypocritical goodwill take responsibility for fuelling feelings of hostility towards the roma. freedom of movement can never mean freedom to settle abusively, forcing women, children and minors in shameful hygienic and sanitary conditions to steal, prostitute themselves, solicit, very often refusing to go to school and work. the eu has detailed rules on the free movement of eu citizens, including safeguards, requirements and penalties. but, as the evidence shows, these rules have been superseded by the accession of romania and bulgaria to the eu and the exodus of tens of thousands of roma to the west. it is therefore urgent to tighten up the current directive 2004/38/ec which provides for the expulsion of community citizens who are unable to legally support themselves after three months in another member state. the concept of expulsion and forced repatriation, which today can only be applied on a voluntary basis and with economic incentives, must be replaced, as must non-community nationals. in addition, there should be compelling mechanisms to detain nationals who have been expelled from another member state in breach of directive 2004/38/ec in their territory of origin.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the joint motion for a resolution tabled by the left group is characterized by its repeated references to the concept of equality, although it contradicts itself in several parts. i think i am stating my opposition to the document presented in the light of the fact that its contents postulate the equality of rights between roma communities and citizens of the host countries, without, however, proceeding to the substantive affirmation of the equality of duties between the parties. i also think that i disagree with it because it does not constitute a legal position but merely criticism of the political work of the italian and french governments. the document also fails to take account of the serious problems of public policy which some member states are trying to tackle with the instruments at their disposal.
in writing. - mr president, the vote on the resolution tabled by the epp and the ecr is a vote of abstention, because we cannot agree with the request to encourage the accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area as countries that are not able to guarantee equal social and economic conditions and security. our position has remained consistent with the position expressed in the past on their entry into the eu. the vote on the resolution tabled by the left was decidedly negative because their resolution undermines the autonomy and discretion of countries such as france and italy which have taken a hard line against those who do not respect the law. one fact that should make us think is that since france recently witnessed the arrival of many roma from eastern countries, thefts have increased by over 200 percent.
in writing. - mr president, the vote on this resolution once again confirms that the european parliament and its members are particularly concerned about the problem of health care for the elderly. in an ageing society, the protection and enhancement of the "silver years" is becoming more and more important. the permanent training of people involved in this field, the call on all member states to adopt information campaigns for the elderly on dietary choices and the prevention of dehydration, the development of the so-called 'e-health' to reduce inefficiencies and waste are just some of the measures proposed in this resolution. improving the conditions of these people, men and women who are often left to fend for themselves, is a duty from which no member state can evade. i hope that the adoption of this resolution will give new impetus to the member states to ensure that people of all ages can take an active part in the life of their community without being left to their own devices.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would just like to add that strasbourg has the advantage of bordering germany compared to brussels, so it is much easier to find alternative means of transport than in brussels.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are not voting on a legislative act, so i think it is important on a different level. i think that this strike will affect all the political forces present in parliament in a broadly proportional way, not that it affects mainly those on the left or those on the right, so any reduced representativeness will be the same, so you can vote for it without any worries.
member of the commission. − madam president, the fact that there is such a high level of consensus in this plenary sends a very powerful message to passengers and their families. this should be seen as proof of the fine work that has been done by the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs. i look forward to the very important work that we have before us in setting up the european network of civil aviation safety investigation authorities. this represents an important step towards improving the quality of safety investigations, strengthening their independence and encouraging high standards in investigation methods and training. it is important that the new rules reflect the advances achieved in safety with the european aviation safety agency which can, from now on, contribute to safety investigations with its expertise and experience in the areas of its competence. i would like to underline – as did many of the speakers – that it will only participate as a technical adviser, sharing its experience and taking part in assessment. it will not investigate accidents itself. the commission is committed to working expeditiously to complete the new rules with proposals to modernise the system of occurrence-reporting for aviation incidents and accidents so that, at the end of the day, we can have the best tools effectively to do our work, which is to protect the lives of european travellers. thank you very much for a very constructive debate.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, as a result of the steady increase in air traffic, the number of civilian casualties in air accidents has increased considerably. just think, in 2005 there were 1,454, an increase of up to 90% over 2004. hence the need for new legislation to reduce the discrepancies in the investigative capacity of the member states and to establish a 'network' between the various national investigative authorities with the aim of rationalising capacity, staff and resources. i therefore support this proposal for a regulation which will ensure the absolute independence of accident investigations and will oblige airlines to guarantee the rights of victims and their families in the event of an accident.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, pakistan has indeed been very much in the limelight in the last month, and of course we all deplored the horrible loss of life and the many displaced persons. as you know, both the commission and the council are very much engaged in trying to alleviate the situation by finding ways to increase trade, as well as ways of rebuilding the country and helping it to prevent further disasters. this was also discussed at the council meeting last week. turning to today’s item, i want to thank the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) and the rapporteur, mr sógor, for their very constructive work on this, and for the support given to the commission when your adopted your opinion in july. the readmission agreement has been for many years now an important tool in managing migration flows, and the lisbon treaty explicitly mentions readmission agreements. if we want migration and asylum policy to be credible to european citizens, it must be based on the principle that those who do not have a legal right to remain in the territory are returned. this is where readmission agreements come in. they facilitate the return of persons staying irregularly in the country of origin or transit and they are agreements between administrations stipulating the procedures to be followed. over the course of time, admission agreements have also become linked to visa policy. in a series of readmission agreements they have become an indispensable element when negotiating a visa facilitation agreement. the commission is committed to pursuing these negotiations under current or future mandates. let me address a few of the concerns raised by speakers in the form of oral questions. the commission is committed to giving full effect to its obligation under article 218 in the treaty to immediately and fully inform parliament at all stages of the negotiations and of the conclusion of eu readmission agreements. we will implement these obligations, taking full account of parliament’s role in the adoption procedure, namely the requirement that it give its consent to the conclusion of future readmission agreements. we will provide all the necessary information, subject to measures ensuring confidentiality in the case of ongoing negotiations, and in accordance with precise arrangements within the future framework of relations between parliament and the commission. in the meantime, the director-general, mr manservici, has already given you, in camera with the libe committee on 12 july, the first general update on the ongoing negotiations. mrs griesbeck also mentioned the declaration made by the commission, and of course we will follow that very closely and report to you accordingly. we should also explore together how to further optimise this cooperation. turning to agreements with countries not signatories of the geneva convention, we would of course like pakistan to sign this, and we are heavily involved in trying to convince them and in trying to pursue these negotiations, because the commission is — as are you all — very attached to the values of international instruments on human rights and international protection, and a proper application of those instruments must be at the core of eu policy. for this reason we have developed the european union acquis on international protection – the qualification and asylum procedures directives – which also includes human rights safeguards in its return policy, namely the returns directive. in addition, all member states of the european union are bound by the geneva convention relating to the status of refugees and the european convention on human rights. these standards guarantee that no person may be removed from any member state, or subjected to readmission procedures, before the risk that, once returned, that person may be subject to persecution, or torture, or inhumane or degrading punishment, has been fully evaluated and excluded. in particular the eu’s asylum instrument requires that member states assess each application for asylum individually, guaranteeing that the applicant remain on the territory until the authorities have taken a decision on the said application, and then they must provide for an effective remedy before a court or a tribunal. these standards are vital for the respect of the non-refoulement principle and are by no means limited by any readmission agreement, which is a very, very important point. all eu readmission agreements contain the non-affection clause explicitly requiring that these standards be respected. we should also not forget that these readmission agreements can play an important role in undermining the activities of migrant-smuggling networks. a report earlier this year from the united nations office on drugs and crime, assessing criminal assisted migration from pakistan, estimated that the annual revenue of this so-called industry amounted to 1.25 billion dollars. the report recommended, inter alia, that pakistan initiate operation and cooperation agreements with key partners, including general agreements for mutual legal assistance and extradition. with regard to visa facilitation agreements, no list of prerequisite criteria for deciding to open such negotiations exists, but the european union takes into account the conclusion of, or active negotiations on, readmission agreements, external relations objectives, implementation records of existing bilateral agreements and progress on related areas in the field of justice and home affairs — including fundamental rights. it should be noted that, for all countries with which the eu has concluded visa facilitation agreements, the commission has presented a draft negotiating mandate to the council as a follow-up to council conclusions which envisage the promotion of people-to-people contact with the country concerned. readmission agreements are monitored by the joint readmission committees. these are set up under each agreement. furthermore, we gather any relevant information about the implementation of the agreements in force. so far, no major problems have been reported, not even by ngos who are active in these fields, despite the fact that some of the countries where such agreements are fully operational have been very sensitive. in any case, under a readmission agreement, no-one shall be returned if this would entail the risk that the person concerned would be subject to persecution, torture or inhumane or degrading punishment. should that happen, this is not a consequence of the readmission agreement, but of an illegal decision taken by the member state concerned, which should be subject to judicial review by the national courts. furthermore, as requested by the european council in the stockholm programme, the commission will, by the end of this year, present a full evaluation of the eu readmission agreements in the form of a communication to parliament and the council. the commission will consider, in the framework of the above-mentioned evaluation, your suggestion that the possibility of assistance with reintegration for those readmitted be explicitly mentioned. in any case we are already providing support for different projects and the return fund offers possibilities for immediate reception in the country of return upon arrival. there are ways to support this. we will undertake evaluations, we have directives in place. the commission will monitor the situation very closely and i will keep you informed as much as possible, as stated in the general agreement between us and also in the communication adopted by the libe committee in july. with this, i hope that you can adopt the agreement.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after eight years of negotiations between the european commission and pakistan, an agreement has finally been reached on a readmission procedure for persons residing in the european union without authorisation. the committee on foreign affairs has asked for an opinion on this very important agreement, particularly in view of developments in the region around pakistan and the question of human rights. we had a long discussion in committee and some concerns were raised: the instability and continued human rights violations in pakistan and the negotiations conducted by the european commission with pakistan have failed to guarantee the rights and security of persons returned to pakistan. we were also concerned that there was no assessment of the 11 readmission agreements already in force. finally, the afet colleagues concluded that a clear framework for cooperation on readmission with pakistan was preferable to a situation where member states would proceed to expel illegal immigrants from pakistan on an ad hoc basis and without a human rights-based control. article 16 will give the union the possibility of exercising these controls, and i therefore reiterate the request of the committee on foreign affairs for an evaluation of the agreements already in force and i support its approval.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, today's debate on readmission agreements cannot ignore the thorny issue of the agreement between the european union and libya. we know that part of the agreement is about countering illegal immigration. we are concerned because the commission has so far said little to us about this, despite the fact that the treaty of lisbon requires the commission itself to inform parliament in good time. libya, as is well known, has not signed the geneva convention on human rights, much less has it so far shown that it is acting in accordance with international law. i am thinking of the case of eritrean immigrants being inhumanely detained in the libyan prison of brak, or the closure of the unhcr offices; but i am thinking above all of what happened last week, when a libyan patrol boat opened fire on an italian fishing vessel of the mazara del vallo navy, which was in international waters, on the grounds that there were illegal immigrants on board: this is a very serious justification which leads us to believe that the agreement between libya and italy - which provides, among other things, for the return of immigrants to libya without provisions on the right to apply for asylum and for individual examinations of individual situations on a case-by-case basis - also contains the possibility of using firearms to stop immigrants. since part of the agreement is secret, i wonder whether the commission is aware of its contents and whether it does not consider it necessary in this particular case to ask for clarification as to whether the libyan authorities are able to open fire on boats, whether there is a suspicion that they are carrying illegal immigrants, because if so, why is this provision ... (the president interrupts)
the european union and turkey have deep trade relations. the customs union has allowed trade, the volume of trade between the european union and turkey, to reach the important figure of eur 100 billion a year. turkey's geopolitical position makes it an important link between the mediterranean area, the middle east, asia, the caucasus and the black sea. turkey is also a country that is in the opposite direction to europe, a country with completely different demographic dynamics, a young country, which first faced the crisis and the reform challenges that it necessitated. it is therefore a complementary country, different in many respects from the european union, with which there is therefore great potential for reciprocity; and that's what we need to focus on, to be careful not to squander each other's potential, to make it a worthwhile investment. it is true that the union is an important trading partner, but turkey is looking increasingly to russia, africa and the middle east, the customs union does not yet apply to public procurement, it does not apply to services, and there are still major obstacles to international trade. we must therefore work to remove the obstacles to potential. and i think that is the case with the report we are discussing today and which we will be voting on in the coming days, because there are areas where we really need to develop potential: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. and for that, for this report which is an important step, i think that the work of the rapporteur, mr kazak, should be shared, and i thank him for that.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased with the kazak report, which basically tells us that the european union has a formidable instrument to develop further in its relations, including political relations, with turkey, and that is trade policy. the crucial geostrategic position of turkey in relation to the mediterranean, the middle east, central asia and the caucasus has already been mentioned. there is a beautiful poem by hikmet, a turkish poet, who says, "this country that looks like the head of a mare has come galloping from far away asia to plunge into the mediterranean". we would like this giant of turkey to be the real centre of these relations, for these regions of which it is one of the centres. but to do this we must stabilise political and commercial relations with armenia, we must close the cyprus question - and i would remind you of paragraph 11 of the kazak report on the implementation and application of the customs union also to the part of cyprus occupied by turkey - so not everything is gold. mr balzani also mentioned that there are some problems, particularly in the field of counterfeiting, the defence and protection of intellectual property, the application of the customs union to the service sector and procurement. i thank my colleague mr kazak, the mediterranean is destined to change and we want to change it together with turkey, whose growth is forecast by the international monetary fund to be as high as 37% by 2020, and that is a figure that says a lot.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is good for europe economically to deepen trade relations with its fast-growing neighbours, but the eu has always pursued, at least in words, a trade policy towards third countries which takes account of social and humanitarian aspects. we must therefore apply these clauses with firm determination to turkey, a country which is re-islamising itself and where the situation of women is getting worse and worse, with more than 1 500 women killed in 2009 in cases of domestic violence, a country where christians live in fear of attacks by islamic extremists, and the brutal murder of monsignor padovanese. in the report, parliament encourages turkey to take a leading role in promoting fair and open trade: one thing is certain: we must be concerned about the political leadership role that turkey is trying to carve out for itself in the arab world and the friendship that turkey is cultivating with iran and terrorist groups like hamas! in any case, if trade policy is to be, so be it, but this must never become the trojan horse to facilitate turkey's entry into europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot support a measure which further liberalizes trade between the european union and turkey, particularly in the agricultural sector. in fact, the cost of labour is much lower than ours, so opening our frontiers to their products is damaging european businesses, it is unfair competition. the idea that this would help turkey to join the european union and thus facilitate trade is a mistake. we think that that political, administrative and social system is too far away from ours even from the point of view of respect for religious freedom we are light years away: in turkey, being christian means being different. religious intolerance, present in the capital as well as in the big cities, is becoming the norm in the suburbs and rural areas; we cannot therefore accept that our companies should be disadvantaged by giving turkey trade facilitations with our countries.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the conservation of biodiversity is an important and topical issue, but unfortunately it is underestimated by many. many citizens in the 27 countries that make up europe do not understand the serious risk of biodiversity extinction, much less the repercussions this has on the climate, environment and economy of our countries. i am sure that we must give full and effective implementation to existing european legislation, integrate funding sources into policies for the conservation of biodiversity in europe and simplify the rules for access to project funding at local level, i am talking about the life programme as quoted by mrs antonescu. the preservation of terrestrial habitats as well as marine habitats must be a priority on the european agenda, but also for all member states, which must strive to harmonise their actions. the principle of conservation of biodiversity must be introduced at all levels at local level! i would like to conclude by saying that this parliament has a responsibility to send a strong signal to europe to improve the quality of our lives, but above all the lives of those who will come after us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, biodiversity is a measure of the variety of animal and plant species in the biosphere: it is the result of long evolutionary processes. evolution is the mechanism that has enabled life to adapt to the changing conditions on earth for over three billion years and that must continue to operate if this earth is to be a home for life in the future. it must be understood not only as the result of evolutionary processes but also as the reservoir from which evolution draws to implement all the genetic and morphological modifications that originate new living species. biodiversity is the life insurance of our planet, so its conservation must be pursued without limits, since it is a universal heritage that can offer immediate benefits to man, such as the maintenance of climate balances, both at local and planetary scales, as a source of study material that allows fundamental knowledge to be gained also to understand similar biological mechanisms in man, such as the sustainable use of flora and fauna for food and medicinal purposes. its conservation is rightly one of the european objectives for the post-2010 year of biodiversity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the italian newspaper il fatto quotidiano published on saturday a document signed by the former mafia mayor of palermo, vito ciancimino, in which he wrote that marcello dell'utri and silvio berlusconi were like him the children of the same wolf, that is to say, they belonged to the same political-mafia system. this news comes to the attention of the judiciary as the truth is coming to light about the mafia massacres of '92, in which judges falcone and borsellino died, that is, that the state dealt with the mafia for the end of the bomb season and that this favored, as it seems, the birth of the premier's party, forza italia, founded just together with dell'utri, sentenced to seven years for mafia and still a senator of the italian parliament. in the light of this and in the light of the recent murder of mayor angelo vassallo by the camorra, i would like to reiterate the importance of the alde request, which, following my continuous pressure, has again asked the libe committee for a report on the mafia at european union level. europe cannot continue to turn its back on the other side for fear of facing a problem which is no longer local but global, and which at this moment is of particular concern to the government of one member state.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, european gas production is steadily declining and energy demand will increase, especially in the near future, in conjunction with the economic recovery we all expect. it is therefore very important to implement policies of abundant and secure supply, especially in times of crisis, when gas supplies are dependent on external geopolitical factors. this regulation greatly improves coordination between the actors in the gas sector and will prevent the recurrence of situations such as the russian-ukrainian crisis, without, however, calling into question the prerogatives of each member state in the energy field. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr vidal-quadras, and thank him for having taken account of some of our amendments which are very important to us. i also welcome the commissioner's wish for greater and closer regional cooperation in this area, and i thank him for his attention.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr vidal-quadras for his excellent report and for his great and acknowledged mediation skills, which have led us to vote on a regulation which was widely accepted at first and only reading. i too, together with my delegation and my group, welcome this regulation because it certainly marks further and important progress in relation to the policies followed up to now, even if it is an important brick along a path which will have to see us constantly engaged in new and ambitious policies, as the commissioner has already announced. the public and official choice made in parliament for a policy of solidarity in the internal market is a good one, and it also serves as a warning to those who have played the game too often in recent years. but we will have to diversify the corridors, the sources, the quality of the resources, and in comparison with this, perhaps, i thought the attention paid to the question of the southern corridor was too timid. i share and i fully agree with the fact that the market is the only real guarantee against supply-related risks, but the market must exist, so we must strive to ensure a competitive market and therefore to ensure that there is no longer a monopoly in this sector, either in terms of sources or networks, by means of regulations, directives, financing, multiple networks and multiple sources of supply.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, a summit between china and the european union is a mirror between two friends who have reasons for mutual satisfaction, but who are both old in some respects, because europe and china have contributed together to a safer and more prosperous world. trade policy is a crucial factor in this joint effort, even if something is wrong, if it is true that in the last five years the european trade deficit has tripled, a figure that is not sustainable for the european union and a figure that is perhaps inevitable, given the constant social and environmental dumping, the world's first for counterfeit medicines, the closed market for services, the unwillingness to participate in acta, the reflections on the chinese side of a closed policy also on human rights: the european union is also very concerned about the situation in tibet, which is suffocated by its cultural, spiritual and ethnic dimension, and the stubborn refusal to recognize taiwan's de facto sovereignty, the repression of freedom of expression in the media and the internet, and the shameful systematic use of the death penalty. all this is old politics for us and we must tell our chinese friends because it offends the intelligence of this people, which has always been a civilization in step with the times. however, we have few lessons to teach china. on the contrary, any competitive advantage china has in trade policy also comes from the fact that china has a billion and a half inhabitants and a foreign minister, a billion and a half inhabitants and a fiscal policy, a billion and a half inhabitants and a currency, and the europe of the 27 plus 1, with its constant hesitations, when it looks at china, has much to learn and to find its unity.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there are many main issues that will be discussed at the eu-china summit. i believe that one of the main issues is the promotion of free and fair trade and the gradual and definitive integration of china on the world economic scene as a responsible and reliable partner. until now, although china joined the wto almost 10 years ago, on 11 november 2001, and has enjoyed substantial benefits, there has been no reciprocity of commitments and improvements to facilitate access by international investors to certain sectors of their market. in particular, the problems of opening up the public procurement market, intellectual property and counterfeiting, export subsidies and the currency market have not improved substantially, and the difficulties for international businesses remain almost the same even though, i repeat, china has been a member of the wto for many years. the chinese market is constantly expanding, its aggressive export subsidies and its easy instrumental use of the value of its currency, its african safaris to capture raw materials, are factors which worry those who fear a world economic imbalance which may lead to the undermining of world peace. so it's only fair to ask ourselves a few questions today: was it useful to bring china into the wto on 11 november 2001 without agreeing on its obligations beforehand? i ask the commissioner of commerce, please: what has been the outcome of the negotiations for a new partnership and cooperation agreement partnership and cooperation agreement agreed in december 2005, which started in january 2007 and which, as far as i understand, have stalled as regards the economic aspects? can the meeting of 6 october 2010 be an opportunity to conclude agreements giving international companies free access to the market? can the next meeting discuss the certification of licences for access to the chinese market, in particular for public contracts and procurement, without the know-how of international companies having to be handed over to them? i therefore look forward to hearing from the commerce commissioner specific indications on this and his ideas in relation to the next meeting.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commissioner has rightly called china a strategic partner, but let us be frank: this is a one-way relationship! europe is strategic for china, i mean china has a clear and very aggressive strategy towards us, it knows what it wants from europe and it gets what it wants, but it is china that dictates the rules of the game in its favour! we are, in fact, succubus. we have chosen not to choose, not to put forward real and far-sighted conditions, neither economic nor commercial, much less in terms of human rights. we are drawing a pitiful veil on human rights, do we want to talk about tibet, the world record for executions, human rights in general? yet when we timidly set certain conditions, we then let china systematically trample them underfoot. i would like to conclude by saying that the commissioner has put it much better than i have with a fundamental question: what do we want from china? what does europe want from china? perhaps it is time to ask ourselves that question seriously!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as this report clearly shows, air traffic has been steadily increasing for several years now. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the road is not compromised. the european legislation on air accident investigations is currently based on a 1994 directive, when easa, the european aviation safety agency, had not yet been established. i therefore fully share the rapporteur's aim of establishing a clear legal framework through a new regulation which would give easa the role of the main actor in aviation safety at european level.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years many member states have suffered frequent disruptions in gas supplies, demonstrating that the european union's growing dependence on external energy supplies can be detrimental to the long-term economic and political interests of the member states. i therefore fully share the view that energy security should be regarded as an essential element of the overall security of the european union and that ensuring the maintenance of gas supplies in the community, particularly during crisis situations, should be regarded as a strategic objective in its own right. i therefore voted in favour of this report and i hope that the regulation in question will be implemented in a timely manner, as the rapporteur himself hopes.
thank you, chairman. the security of gas supply is one of the most important aspects of europe's economic and strategic security. the ability to speak with one voice on common energy policy issues with energy suppliers is one of the key objectives. i very much appreciate what commissioner ottinger has done and the way he has looked at it, but the five or seven years he has mentioned for discussions with the member states is too long. a common energy policy is needed in the near future. it is necessary to ensure the diversity of supply sources, especially for the baltic states, as one supplier, russia, uses its monopoly position to interfere in the political developments of dependent countries. interconnections for the supply of gas to europe must be established on the basis of the principle of solidarity, which is the basis of the european union's policy. a situation in which, with a variety of suppliers, gas is still transported to the european union via russia is unacceptable. europe must establish direct cooperation with central asia, with the countries of the transcaucasus, and must explore tight gas and shale gas projects and alternative energy sources. thank you.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too voted in favour of this measure. it is time for the european union to regulate energy security and supply clearly: the controversy last year showed how dependent we are on energy from third countries. the regulation adopted in this house finally tackles this problem in an attempt to prevent further crises, making a major step forward in energy security. member states are called upon to ensure adequate energy coverage for households, for protected customers, that is, for essential facilities and services. they are also called upon to draw up prevention and emergency plans. this is a step towards that principle of subsidiarity of the states which is so dear to the union and to my group in this parliament. i particularly agree with amendment no 62. finally, i would like to draw attention to the farsightedness of my country, which has opened up numerous channels of dialogue with the countries with large gas reserves.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this agreement is to strengthen cooperation between the administrations of the states concerned in order to speed up the process of admitting persons who are in an irregular situation, by specifying all the necessary technical provisions: the application for admission, the tests, the time limits, the transfer and transport arrangements. i voted in favour because i believe that this agreement is necessary as a fundamental instrument in the fight against illegal immigration in the european union. the agreement contains a non-impact clause with respect to other international rules and rights: the member states will have to comply with the relevant obligations arising from international law, such as the principle of non-refoulement, and are held responsible for expulsions before their national courts. the principle of non-refoulement has procedural implications, as states are called upon to carry out an assessment of the risk of ill-treatment, including in cases of indirect removal to an intermediate country. the commission is also planning to set up a joint committee on readmission and i would like to stress here, mr president, that the european parliament will not be part of it, unfortunately, so i ask the european commission to keep us regularly and timely informed of its activities.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i support the kazak report on relations between the european union and turkey as voted in the inte committee and in the house. although turkey has long since built a customs barrier with europe, many trade barriers and obstacles still exist between the two sides. if we want to contribute to a real and positive increase in trade, turkey must take account of the position of this parliament, namely to align turkish legislation with the community acquis on free trade, to put in place concrete procedures to combat counterfeiting, which also affects sectors important for the health of citizens, such as pharmaceuticals, to guarantee the free movement of goods in the customs area by abolishing heavy import procedures which are detrimental to the european manufacturing and agricultural industry. it must also avoid discriminatory practices against european industries in the field of public procurement and must be in line with the agreements adopted within the world trade organisation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, turkey's role as a player in world trade has been growing in recent years, particularly because it is taking advantage of its unique geopolitical position. the establishment of a customs union with the european union in 1996 has allowed economic relations to be deepened; the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which sets out the main priorities for the period 2000-2006. in recent times, a major step towards integration has been made with the adoption of the new turkish customs code and the introduction of the generalised system of preferences. we cannot deny that turkey has become a key trading partner of the union in recent years, ranking seventh among the union's largest import markets and fifth among its export markets. it has become an investment base for european businesses, with increasing integration into the supply and production chain, often in high value-added segments. i voted in favour of this report, mr president, because i share the view that the customs union must first be made more functional, and therefore i support this relationship between turkey and the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate my fellow rapporteur on his work and, above all, on the way he has dealt with this subject, given that we have been discussing turkey's accession to the union for many years, and that is a difficult time. it is well established that turkey is an excellent trading partner for europe, aided by its favourable position as a natural gateway to asia. the european union is turkey's largest trading partner. the numbers are good, they're comforting. these trade relations must be improved, and i therefore agree with paragraphs 16 and 20, which call on turkey to abolish import licences and the ban on the import of certain pharmaceutical products. finally, i agree that it is appropriate to make the customs union stronger and wider in order to make trade more and more profitable.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the report adopted today is a step in the right direction for the protection of biodiversity and ecosystems. the concept of biodiversity is finally being linked to that of responsible management. to preserve our planet so that it can sustain future generations, we need to adopt effective eco-friendly policies now. in the absence of the target of halting biodiversity loss by 2010, the 10-year delay should serve as a serious collective awareness-raising exercise by states and institutions. the european union's environmental heritage, which ranges from the mediterranean scrub to coniferous forests, boasts a wealth of flora and fauna in terms of biodiversity that is virtually unrepeatable. stopping the loss of this environmental heritage - and i conclude - is a duty we owe to ourselves and to future generations.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the protection of biodiversity and ecosystems and the fight to prevent their further deterioration are invaluable challenges for our society. stopping biodiversity loss is not only our ethical duty, but also our political and economic duty: preserving our planet so that it can sustain future generations too! in line with european environmental policy practice, directives provide the flexibility to adapt implementation measures to local realities. this approach is certainly justified by the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, but often the differences between member states become such as to affect the effectiveness of the directives themselves. i agree with the rapporteur that the often sectoral approach to biodiversity is leading to a deep fragmentation of the funding of measures to protect ecosystems through the eu budget. while such fragmentation of funding can have a positive impact, allowing for different sources, the co-financing obligation and the menu-a-carte approach of agricultural and instrumental policies, among others, mean that only those member states that consciously choose to allocate resources to biodiversity actually invest funds for that purpose.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the vote we have taken today on the report is very detailed and contains a lot of information on how to improve the prevention of environmental disasters. it considers that the existing preventive measures have unfortunately proved to be insufficient or have not been implemented, and that there is therefore a twofold need: the commission is also proposing to develop some national and european measures, including a change in the conditions for access to the solidarity fund, but it is equally important that the regions and local authorities pay more attention to this, since this measure calls for better integration into the programming instruments and operational programmes. it is a step forward, one of many we are taking towards better land protection policies.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, depopulation of the countryside, desertification and the increased frequency of natural disasters - excessive rainfall, drought, hail, fires, etc. - are forcing member states to intervene with few resources and few means. the most important issue i want to highlight here is the survival of the agricultural world, which is often subject to natural disasters that bring farm incomes to their knees. the european commission must therefore commit itself to creating a european public insurance scheme for the agricultural sector, capable of dealing with the risks and economic and financial instability of farmers following natural or man-made disasters and catastrophes, as is indicated in paragraph 37 of mr ferreira's proposal, for which i have just voted in favour.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work. the european union has always been committed to supporting the developing countries and the report we have voted today reminds us all that we still have much, much to do. in order to improve the conditions in these countries, it is necessary to facilitate standards of labour law, standards of safety at work - and i should like to emphasize my appreciation of paragraph 38, which stresses the importance of gender, of gender equality, for the economic success of the states. women must be guaranteed fair access to the world of work. the european union must use all the instruments at its disposal to eradicate child labour, as the rapporteur rightly points out in paragraph 38, which is one of the biggest obstacles to poverty reduction. a report on major qualifying points, for which reason i voted in favour.
in writing. - i abstained because, while i agree with the addition of 20 permanent posts converted from temporary contracts to the staff of the european anti-fraud office, i do not think it appropriate that the correction of budgetary imbalances in favour of the united kingdom should still exist at this stage. the correction of budgetary imbalances was granted to the united kingdom in 1984 because it was considered a depressed area. i also think it is unfair that germany, the netherlands, sweden and austria have only paid 25% of what they should have since 2002.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, by regulation (ec) no 2007/2000, the union granted privileged duty-free access to the eu market for almost all products from the countries and territories benefiting from the stabilisation and association process, in order to give a new impetus to the economies of the western balkan countries. that regulation, as amended several times, has been codified by regulation (ec) no 1215/2009. the trade preferences were granted for a period expiring on 31.12.2010 and currently apply to bosnia and herzegovina, serbia and kosovo for all products falling within the scope of the abovementioned regulation. with the end of trade preferences, the beneficiaries would be deprived of an objective economic advantage in trade with the eu. in this context, this proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council aims to amend regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 to allow for its extension until 31 december 2015 and to make certain adjustments following the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreements with bosnia and herzegovina and serbia.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, electronic commerce is crucial for the development of the internal market: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a breach of the directive. it is able to expand the potential market for small domestic producers who could not afford to market in other eu countries, protecting them and promoting job creation in the manufacturing sector. it also reduces the distance between the centre and the periphery, improving the quality of life in rural areas by broadening the supply of goods, and promoting the uniformity of standards of goods sold by spreading the same goods across more markets. it is therefore essential to address and resolve the main obstacles to the use of the internet for the sale of products: security and guarantees. and this task, given the structural lack of frontiers, must be carried out by the supranational actors concerned, that is, in our territory, by the community institutions. the report gives traders a framework within which to plan and invest, consumers certainty about the guarantees they are entitled to, and producers a greater chance of fighting the crisis. it's about time!
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the echeverria report because i believe that electronic commerce is a key market in eu policy, where some useful measures can and must be envisaged to improve the competitiveness of the european union's economy, in the context of the eu2020 strategy. i believe that in order to take full advantage of the possibilities offered by the european single market, further development of electronic commerce is needed, which has the potential to make a positive contribution both to consumers and to the competitiveness of businesses. in this context, i welcome the report's provision for a european trust mark, which is necessary to guarantee the reliability and quality of products placed on the crossborder electronic market. in a time of crisis and financial difficulties such as the one we are currently experiencing, it is necessary to support instruments which can have a positive and significant impact on employment and growth, and one of these instruments is electronic commerce. i therefore believe that the report voted on today is a good result not only for businesses and smes but also and above all for consumers.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i believe that the electronic market is of fundamental economic importance and that the barriers to its development still exist. the free movement of goods in europe is seriously hampered by the fragmentation of the systems of the various member states and 60% of customers' attempts to buy goods across national borders fail. the aim is to achieve a true online single market for europe. the report also mentions the difficulties of internet access for people living in island and mountain areas, thanks to an amendment by the efd (northern league) group.
in writing. − the recent commission communication has identified future strategies to reduce fragmentation and stimulate the growth of e-commerce. while e-commerce is taking off nationally, the scale of cross-border purchases remains modest, reaching only 7% in 2009. the main obstacles are language, practical and regulatory problems. i agree with the report's outline, which identifies five priorities to try to encourage the sector: improving internet access, tackling online market fragmentation, increasing consumer confidence, encouraging entrepreneurs to market products on the internet and ensuring the safety of minors using the internet. this should be done in a clear and uniform legal framework, primarily at the service of the citizen. the fundamental incentive, in fact, is the public's confidence, which must be sustained and improved.
in writing. - we are well aware of the difficulties faced, especially in our country, by those who live and reside in mountain or island communes. the completion of an internal market for electronic commerce would simplify network access and improve quality in countries and regions of the eu that are not well connected. it is important to develop initiatives to encourage entrepreneurs to market products via the internet, protecting users, especially minors, with the appropriate safeguards necessary for safety. we cannot allow dishonest operators to defraud potential users, which is why targeted and frequent checks are needed.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, air traffic is constantly increasing and, despite the progress made in safety, the news still reports an inexorable increase in air accidents. it is time for the european union to regulate this sector more precisely and on time. i therefore strongly share the rapporteur's objective of preventing tragic air accidents and improving accident investigations. the legislation in this area dates back to 1994, before the european aviation safety agency (easa) was established. i therefore voted in favour of this regulation, which aims to recognise a leading role for easa in the field of aviation safety and i particularly agree with the objective of ensuring general access to sensitive information.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i supported the report by mrs christine de veyrac because i consider the issue of civil aviation safety in europe to be one of the most important issues on the european agenda today. the aim of the new regulation is to reduce the number of air accidents to a minimum, to improve safety standards, to better protect citizens, and at the same time to try to build up their confidence in air transport. an important part of the measure, which i am pleased to draw your attention to, is devoted to air accident investigations, which must be conducted without any pressure, so as to ensure that the authorities concerned are able to decide with the greatest possible peace of mind. i also welcome the choice to include a number of provisions on the timely provision of information on all persons (and dangerous goods) on board an aircraft involved in an accident, both for obvious safety reasons and to improve the assistance to all victims and their families. the text also provides for passengers to indicate a person to contact in case of need.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by my colleague because i consider it to be a major step forward in this field. the proposal for a regulation on the investigation and prevention of accidents in civil aviation aims to increase the transparency of information made available by national civil aviation authorities. it also represents a necessary modernisation of the rules currently applied, which date back to 1994. the measures for the creation of an efficient communication system between national authorities, with the aim of facilitating coordination and greater sharing of the data collected, are noteworthy. access to sensitive information shall be regulated in order to enable the competent authorities to rely on the cooperation of all parties involved in accidents.
in writing. − air traffic has been increasing steadily for several years, but despite considerable improvements in safety, this growth has only increased the risk of air accidents. in such a situation, it is essential that accidents are subject to independent investigations which can determine with certainty the safety deficiencies and allow for corrective action. at present, the european legislation on accident investigation consists of a single directive of 1994: since then, air traffic has evolved, become more complex and new actors have emerged, such as the european aviation safety agency (easa), which have highlighted discrepancies in the investigative capacities of member states and have necessitated new and more satisfactory legislation. in order to reduce disparities in the investigation capabilities of the european union, it would be appropriate to establish a network of national investigation offices which could also increase the quality of the investigations themselves and provide a legal framework for cooperation between national authorities. i believe that such action could make a real contribution to improving aviation safety.
in writing. - i have expressed my support for mr vidal-quadras' proposal for a regulation because i consider it useful to have made an effort to extend the coordination of the member states in defining measures to ensure the security of gas supplies. gas consumption has increased rapidly in europe over the past decade and, in the face of declining domestic production and a consequent increase in imports, there is a need to address the problems of this sector in a coordinated manner. the european commission has considered it necessary, in the face of the new context, to go beyond the provisions of directive 2004/67/ec, currently in force, in order to achieve greater harmonisation of national rules. i share the basic idea of the regulation, which is to enable businesses and customers to have a secure supply of gas, even in the event of interruption of supplies, by focusing on an incentive for investment also in the infrastructure field. i believe that it is essential to have adequate and diversified gas infrastructure, especially in relation to regions which are isolated from energy sources. finally, i would like to stress the need to draw up national emergency plans and identify solidarity mechanisms to be activated in the event of emergencies at community level.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vidal quadras' report on the new european regulation on the security of gas supply is a sure-fire means of avoiding the growing risk of a gas supply disruption in the event of a crisis. a mechanism which would allow a high level of protection for households without distorting the market in any way, in whose hands the management of supplies remains. the report deserves a favourable vote also because of the timeliness with which it tackles some key points which have been unclear until now. i'm talking about prevention and emergency response. suppliers who speculate on the weaknesses of our system in a time of crisis will find a very difficult obstacle to overcome.
in writing. - i wholeheartedly support the report by mr vidal-quadras. the supply of gas and therefore of energy is a fundamental element for the european union, for its development and its well-being. it is therefore essential to have a european approach and strategy. the challenge is too great and we cannot leave it to the individual national logic to deal with the matter. i am in favour of a common energy strategy to create a clear and sustainable energy system capable of strengthening the possibility of supply. the common approach, however, must not mean a single partner for supply, as we have seen how the energy question plays on the chessboard of geopolitics and is capable of influencing relations between states. i therefore believe that in order to avoid crises and emergencies, it is appropriate to talk to and exploit all the supply channels coming from the east, the caucasus or the other side of the mediterranean. this would avoid a new energy vulnerability for the eu and would reassert its geostrategic role in the world.
in writing. − we support the report on gas supply as it aims to reduce the vulnerability of the european union by ensuring, even in difficult situations, the supply of gas to households, small and medium-sized enterprises and providers of essential social services. the text also stresses the need for transparency, since only with adequate information can sound decisions be taken, and stresses the spirit of solidarity needed to ensure that all member states have access to sufficient gas for their customers in the event of a crisis. this is also the position of president buzek, who has promoted the meeting between the 27 national parliaments of the union and the european parliament on the creation of a european energy community.
in writing. we are all aware of the recent environmental disaster in pakistan, the enormous damage to the land, the loss of crops, the more than ten million displaced people and the thousands of deaths. our commitment is to help this country and to develop solidarity and coordination initiatives to facilitate a speedy recovery. but we must not lose sight of the need to make the european area a safe place, which has unfortunately been compromised by years of continuous flows of illegal immigration and trafficking. the agreement on readmission procedures, reached after eight years of negotiations between the european commission and pakistan, sets out a clearer framework for cooperation, co-responsibility and is seen as a deterrent to human trafficking and illicit trafficking. such an agreement would avoid those situations of return without eu supervision. first of all, member states will have to comply with obligations arising from international law, such as the principle of non-refoulement, which will therefore have procedural implications since the member states will be required to carry out an assessment of the risk of ill-treatment in the country of origin. we will also ensure our long-term cooperation with pakistan and encourage programmes of technical assistance and economic and social development and the fight against unemployment and social exclusion.
in writing. - the conclusion of an agreement with pakistan is a positive step which europe must take in the direction of a policy of decisive action against illegal immigration. the citizens of europe today are asking for greater security and a policy of strict control of the migratory flows that flow into our countries. any text such as this, which facilitates the procedures for the return of those who are not legally entitled to remain in the community, is to be welcomed as europe's collective response to the demands of our citizens. as regards the concerns raised by some colleagues about the living conditions that returnees to pakistan might encounter, i believe that these are important arguments which should not prevent the conclusion of an agreement which would nevertheless include a commitment by the eu that pakistan will in future provide the minimum guarantees needed in the field of human rights and the treatment of refugees. europe must direct its diplomatic and political efforts in this direction, but not without doing what the people are asking for at home: security and respect for the law. i therefore vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - we support the report on the conclusion of the eu-pakistan agreement on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation. this agreement helps to strengthen the fight against illegal immigration to the eu by facilitating the process of deportation of irregular pakistani nationals and their readmission to their countries of origin. it should be possible to extend the same type of agreement to the other countries from which illegal immigrants usually come. in the temporary residence centres, time is often wasted in order to obtain permission to return from the country of origin, once the irregular person's nationality has been identified, thus exceeding the maximum periods of detention. with agreements such as the one we are approving today, waiting times are reduced and it is therefore easier and cheaper to manage the return of irregular immigrants.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, turkey is taking many steps towards a more open and democratic development of the country, not only in economic and commercial terms, but also from the point of view of respect for the principles of the rule of law. turkey is a key partner in the eu's economic and trade relations, and is now the eu's seventh largest import market and fifth largest export market. despite its unique geopolitical position and its role in world trade, turkey still persists in maintaining technical barriers to trade and in making excessive use of safeguard measures. much remains to be done to combat counterfeiting, make public procurement more transparent and open to foreign companies and allow the free movement of goods. the same efforts will have to be made in the field of human rights. in fact, a discriminatory policy towards the kurdish minority, the violation of women's rights and trade union rights still persists. respect for the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms are therefore essential principles with priority and on which much remains to be done.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the subject in question is obviously commercial and economic, but after all we cannot ignore the fact that this is a country waiting to join the eu and whose entry is the subject of objections. what convinces me to vote against this report, although i can see the positive aspects of deepening trade relations with a country in strong growth, is nevertheless the political aspect. improving economic relations with a country cannot, as i fear in this case, become the trojan horse for pushing for a state's accession to the eu. i suspect that behind the applause with which this parliament greets the recent constitutional referendum in turkey there is a political encouragement to ankara. i think instead that we should seriously limit ourselves to trade with turkey, with due regard for the effects on our agricultural system and the danger that europe will be hit by a wave of counterfeit products (in which turkey is second only to china). but turkey is now more than ever a threat to europe's identity and political stability, and we should all be convinced that it is far preferable for this country to remain, as is natural, outside the borders of europe.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, turkey is a strategic partner for the european union. it is just beyond our south-eastern borders, it is part of the same defence alliance as most eu countries, and it gives us access to energy resources and raw materials, beyond the important direct trade with our countries. the recent constitutional referendum is also a step forward towards the adoption of the community legislative body and deserves due recognition. this report has the great advantage of focusing on the most important aspect for the union and highlighting its critical aspects alongside its positive aspects. in particular, it shows how the relationship with this country is played out on many levels, the complexity of which is difficult to sum up in a mere judgment of eligibility or not within these institutions. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. i think it is appropriate to follow the direction indicated by the rapporteur, for the benefit of both parties.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the report in question is very inaccurate in that it claims that turkey is the sixth largest economy in europe. this is a claim that is categorically refuted by geography, since almost all of turkey is located on the asian continent. the amendment which parliament welcomes as a result of the recent referendum in turkey also undermines the neutrality of the report, which is more political in tone and is not merely economic in nature. for the reasons i have just given, i do not support the adoption of mr kazak's report.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is turkey's main trading partner. the volume of trade is therefore very large, and the report does not hesitate to outline the problems that exist in our trade relations. one of these problems, which must not be overlooked, is the fact that turkey, for the fifth consecutive year, has not yet fulfilled its obligation to implement the additional protocol to the association agreement and has not removed all the obstacles to the free movement of goods. for example, the doors are closed to goods coming from cyprus. these and other issues, which were largely highlighted by the epp amendments, have helped to give more balance to a report which rightly contains no reference to any deeper political links between the european union and turkey.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted against because mr kazak studied in france with a grant from the turkish state and therefore in a clear conflict of interest. i think it is more appropriate to refer the resolution back to committee and to replace the rapporteur. furthermore, the turkish economy is referred to as a european economy rather than an asian one. i do not want the increase in trade between the eu and turkey to be used as an excuse for turkey's accession to the european union. we do not want eurabia!
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it contains some points which i consider important. for the fifth consecutive year, turkey has not fully implemented the additional protocol to the partnership agreement, nor has it removed existing obstacles to the free trade of goods. in addition, ankara needs to strengthen the protection of intellectual property rights and apply european standards in the fight against counterfeiting. finally, substantial reductions in trade barriers are needed, particularly for agricultural products. if turkey wants to continue the talks and negotiations on its accession to the european union, it must first of all respect certain fundamental points, first of all the cyprus question, trade guarantees and rules.
in writing. - turkey's role in world trade has been steadily increasing, given its role as a link between the mediterranean regions and its neighbouring regions. in this context, the customs union (cu) has brought about a considerable degree of integration between the eu and turkish markets. the udi covers all industrial products and processed agricultural products and its success can be seen from the figures: turkey is the eu's seventh largest import market and fifth largest export market. the wto is not yet complete, however, and it seems to be plagued by problems related to the persistence of technical barriers to trade and the excessive use of safeguard measures. in this context, and also in view of the importance of relations between turkey and the eu, this proposal aims to pay due attention to the trade and economic relations between the two parties, taking the necessary steps to further enhance the quality of these relations and making the sd more functional. these actions can bring mutual benefits to both economies.
in writing. − the protection of biodiversity and ecosystems is an emergency that we are ignoring, or rather not paying adequate attention to. according to some studies, the loss of well-being resulting from the degradation of biodiversity is estimated at around eur 50 billion per year, but this is not primarily an economic issue but an ecological one. the united nations has proclaimed 2010 the year of biodiversity, highlighting the international nature of this theme and its crucial importance especially in achieving the millennium development goals. the eu has also worked to ensure that the protection of biodiversity is integrated into many community policies, including the adoption of the habitats directive, which also provides for the establishment of an ecological network of special protected areas called natura 2000. i believe that all member states must improve the management and respect of biodiversity, preserving landscapes and protected areas, maintaining and developing the continuity between protected areas, terrestrial, marine or agricultural areas of high natural value. in addition, the eu should provide more funding for studies and new initiatives and pay more attention to ensuring compliance with all european regulations and directives, especially those concerning the conservation of biodiversity.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mrs de lange's report because i believe that much can still be done to conserve biodiversity. in particular, i fully share the passage in the report which states that 'a positive solution to the triple crisis of food security, biodiversity loss and climate change requires a coherent approach and a future eu biodiversity strategy that is fully integrated with strategies to combat poverty and hunger and mitigate and adapt to climate change'.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has an immense natural heritage, in terms of forests, tree species, terrestrial and aquatic fauna, which is fed by a wide range of climates and hampered by behaviours that are not always correct. fortunately, some limits have long been set and the conditions that prevent the conservation of this enormous wealth have been reduced. it is worth considering, however, that biodiversity is a perfect mechanism of cross-control between animal, plant and mineral components of nature. it allows the preservation of those balances that facilitate food variety, prevent certain natural disasters, help fight climate change and excess carbon dioxide. i am in favour of adopting this report because it is a first step towards moving from declarations of principle, on which there is of course almost unanimous agreement, to concrete action to safeguard biodiversity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because i believe that tackling the loss of biodiversity and the continuing degradation of ecosystems, through a sustainable development strategy, must be one of the priorities of the european union's legislative activity. biodiversity is a fundamental asset for human existence on earth and for the well-being of future generations. that is why i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution. if the necessary measures are not taken to halt the loss of biodiversity caused by humans, according to all the data we have, by 2050 we will have an impoverishment of nature that will lead to irreversible damage. the eu has set itself the minimum target of halting biodiversity loss by 2020 through a strategy that is coherent and integrated with poverty and hunger reduction and climate change mitigation strategies. we also asked the commission to ensure that biodiversity is given greater prominence in other eu policies. in addition to the well-known life programme, new instruments need to be identified which work in synergy with other policies in various fields such as fisheries, agriculture and the environment in general. finally, i am in full agreement with the implementation of a wide-ranging information campaign on this subject among the citizens of the european union.
in writing. - i support the rapporteur's report, as it deals with a sensitive, important and fundamental issue for the survival of our planet and therefore of future generations. the need to conserve and preserve biological diversity from extinction is also at the heart of climate change adaptation policies, such as the global fight against hunger and support for food security. parliament must therefore take a serious and decisive step forward, especially in the light of the failure to achieve the 2010 target of halting biodiversity loss, which has now been postponed to 2020 on the instructions of the council and the commission. i agree with the rapporteur's warning to all the institutions, including the member states, to play a leading role in the implementation of the community guidelines in the territories of the relevant policies.
in writing. - the loss of biodiversity is occurring at alarming rates: the current global rate of species extinction around the world is much higher than the natural rate of extinction. the commission has stated that 50% of species and up to 80% of habitats of european conservation interest are disappearing. the objective of halting biodiversity loss is very important for climate change, considering that terrestrial and marine ecosystems absorb about half of the co2 emissions emitted by humans. unfortunately, in my view, international and european initiatives and agreements to halt the loss of biodiversity have not produced much and european citizens do not seem to be sufficiently informed about this. this year, new initiatives were proposed to halt the degradation of ecosystems and the commission presented four policy options, including the restoration of biodiversity worldwide. i hope that a proposal for a new eu biodiversity strategy will be published by the end of 2010, including some legislative proposals. the european council on the environment on 15 march agreed on a new headline target to halt the degradation of ecosystems in the eu by 2020.
in writing. - we have seen a lot of media reports this summer, informing us of two environmental disasters that have hit two different countries, russia and pakistan. while it is true that there are unforeseeable and uncontrollable natural disasters, it is also true that human activity sometimes contributes to worsening situations of environmental decline. pollution, acid rain, industrial pollution, landslides caused by problems of urban and land use planning, the desertification of certain areas - these are just some of the consequences of our actions. given that natural disasters undermine ecosystems and biodiversity, affect sustainable development and threaten social cohesion, the dissemination of good prevention practices and a better understanding of the local geographical, economic and social context is essential. it is also important to develop a european risk and hazard mapping, to encourage the use of good and sustainable agricultural and industrial practices and to strengthen the links between the various early warning systems. i also think it is necessary to be able to mobilise the current eu solidarity fund in the most flexible and rapid way possible, and to further simplify the administrative rules so that we can deal with natural disasters in the shortest possible time.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report on the commission communication 'a community approach to the prevention of natural and man-made disasters' should be welcomed without any particular comments. a continuous mutual exchange of information and good practice would certainly improve scientific knowledge and improve the capacity of all to act. crossborder cooperation at several levels, such as macro-regions or regions, would increase the effectiveness of existing prevention methods. finally, it is essential to stress the importance of voluntary activities, for which increased cooperation between member states is necessary.
in writing. - while noting that the member states have the primary responsibility for civil protection and disaster prevention, we agree with the rapporteur's approach in that it calls for better coordination and cooperation, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, between local, regional and national authorities. the primary objective of the community approach must be to reduce the disparities between regions and member states. it is also essential to address prevention across the union's various policies, including through the establishment of an appropriate financial plan.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the figures published by the relevant institutions on poverty and malnutrition cannot be regarded as mere figures. behind those percentages and those absolute values are individuals who struggle to make ends meet or suffer from serious illnesses due to poor or poor-quality nutrition. the commitment to poverty reduction must be undertaken with the utmost responsibility and cannot be reduced to a series of slogans and clichés. we must study the problems in depth and find solutions which reconcile the interests of the least developed countries with those of the developed countries, the interests of businesses and consumers, of industrialists and farmers, and of all the categories involved. it is not by cutting off one's own wings that one allows others to fly, but by taking on burdens commensurate with one's strength and abilities. it is therefore important to showcase the good practices of the market economy to trigger mechanisms of growth and development, but at the same time provide the right incentives and the right training to get out of the poverty trap.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the report on poverty reduction and job creation in developing countries, particularly for its incentive to recognise the contribution of the social economy, for example cooperatives, to job creation and the promotion of decent work in developing countries and to include the social economy in eu development programmes and cooperation strategies. it is also important that developing countries participate in the ilo's decent work agenda so that workers in these countries can finally enjoy adequate working standards. it is urgent to stop the mad race to exploit child labour and instead promote education as the foundation for the future of the new generations.
in writing. − the european union has the prerogative to legislate and to focus on the needs and demands of its own territory, but it cannot and must not forget its responsibilities towards the rest of the world, in particular developing countries. the report by my colleague aims to achieve just that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in most cases, it is poverty and the search for work that drive thousands of desperate people to make journeys of hope in search of a better future. i therefore believe that a strategy aimed at creating certain conditions on the ground is to be supported and is a benefit for the countries receiving it and for the european union which supports it.
in writing. - while the text is positive, identifying the motto 'helping them at home' as the best way to support the world's poor, the measure goes further, calling for country-by-country tax reporting, additional funding to combat the effects of climate change, and a review of agricultural subsidy policies. the house also approved an amendment which accuses eu aid to european farmers of destroying the markets of developing countries. although i am in favour of most of the points in the resolution, which also stresses the need to coordinate aid in a global way, i am voting against it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this measure is intended to strengthen and rationalise the pharmacovigilance system in the european union. these are the ambitious objectives set out in the mcavan reports, amending regulation (ec) no 726/2004 and directive 2001/83/ec respectively. the council and parliament, and the relevant parliamentary committees, have worked together closely and efficiently to discuss a proposal aimed at improving the community pharmacovigilance system and perfecting the european union's extensive work in this field, which has been going on for more than a decade. simplification, transparency and rationalisation can be seen as the key points of these two reports which propose measures to ensure the best possible protection of public health, based on harmonised standards across europe. the report covers a wide range of interventions, ranging from a better definition of the roles and responsibilities of the main national and supranational stakeholders, to a new and more consciously active involvement of the patient, who is recognised as a key player in the system, to the strengthening of the transparency of information on the safety of medicines, to the simplification of communication, registration and assessment of suspected adverse side effects. the current pharmacovigilance system needs to be improved, including through closer cooperation at european, national and regional levels. effective participation at all three levels will ensure a fruitful exchange of information on adverse reactions to medicinal products. the new pharmacovigilance system, therefore, reorganised as a network, including via web-based support, will be able to ensure a high level of shared and secure information for the benefit of patients, national authorities and healthcare professionals.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner tajani, the primary objective of this proposal for a regulation is to verify the safety of medicinal products once they have been authorized for public use. the controls and evaluations of positive or negative effects are never excessive. it is estimated that the side effects of medicines cause 197 000 deaths in the european union every year. clinical trials can often detect side effects if they occur infrequently, after prolonged use of the drug, or if they result from interactions with other medicines. monitoring the use of medicines and reporting their side effects is, and must remain, a priority of european public health policy. a good pharmacovigilance system must be able to enable healthcare professionals, companies and patients themselves to report side effects of medicines and to detect signs of potential problems. once these signs are identified, action should be taken, for example by changing the way the medicine is prescribed, improving information on the use of the medicine or by completely withdrawing the product in case of particularly severe side effects. the proposal to strengthen cooperation on pharmacovigilance will have many advantages, as it will make it possible to deal with a greater number of reports, so that even the rarest cases can be detected more quickly. this will make it possible to withdraw dangerous medicines from the market more quickly if they are needed. all states will have to continue to be the main actors in the pharmacovigilance system in the european union. i would like to conclude, mr president, by stressing the importance of allowing patients to report directly on the side effects of these medicines. unfortunately, today only a limited number of states accept direct reporting and i would like to stress that in the countries where it is used it does not impose any additional workload on the competent authority.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i think it is important that we should discuss this subject here, and i would like to draw attention to one particular issue, namely the multilingualism of information and, in particular, the package insert. i am a member of a linguistic minority and live in one of the most touristic regions of our european union. in each state, the medicines are accompanied by a package insert in the language of the state. this is why, in my region, for example, a significant proportion of people simply do not understand the package insert. it's not only unpleasant, it's dangerous. we must now get this directive to the point where information on package inserts is available from home on the internet and also in the pharmacy. if we can then also present this information in a concise and summary form, then it can also be printed on the package insert itself in several languages without having to attach entire leaflets to the medicines.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we support the rapporteur's approach, as it emphasizes the importance of checking the safety of medicines and improving the transparency of pharmacovigilance activities. the northern league has focused on a few aspects: allow direct access by the patient to the community database of reports of suspected adverse reactions; allow the introduction of fees, at the discretion of the member states, to be charged for pharmacovigilance assessments; and define the composition and mandate of the risk assessment committee in order to give an appropriate role to member states, healthcare professionals and patients. unfortunately, in a europe which is increasingly concerned with health and quality of life, it is easy to abuse medicines. negative interactions between products used for health, medical, plant protection purposes are possible and this can lead in sensitive individuals from the simplest cases of allergic reactions to actual diseases that debilitate people. one of these, which is not yet fully understood and which unfortunately is not easily solvable, is the multiple chemical syndrome: people who are affected can no longer live a normal life because they can no longer tolerate any chemical. it is therefore important that the european union takes action to inform and train citizens in the conscious use of the drug.
in writing. medicinal products make an essential contribution to the health of citizens in the european union. however, they can also have serious side effects, which the commission estimates are responsible for about 5% of hospital admissions and deaths. in recent years there have been cases of medicinal products which, although they were placed on the market after the planned monitoring procedure, have shown significant side effects in patients. this context underlines the need for the union to have an effective pharmacovigilance policy to protect the health of european citizens. i believe that an efficient pharmacovigilance system should enable the competent authorities to be informed promptly of the side effects of medicinal products and, above all, to withdraw dangerous medicinal products from the market rapidly if necessary. i also share the proposals in this report to improve cooperation between member states in the field of pharmacovigilance and to strengthen the criteria for granting marketing authorizations for new medicinal products. finally, i ask the commission to consider revising the composition of the package leaflet for medicinal products in order to improve information on the use of a medicinal product.
in writing. many diseases can now be treated without hospitalisation, and even in oncology there are drug treatments that make home treatment possible. the control of the pharmaceutical chain therefore requires rational and clear procedures which improve the flow of information and transparency in content by clearly defining the roles and responsibilities of the main parties involved. i fully support the creation of a centralised data collection and evaluation system which can complement national pharmacovigilance networks while maintaining consistency of information. the filter of national networks, the only instrument capable of ensuring the objectivity of the validation, the quality of the data encoding, the causal link and the relationship with the reporting persons, could not be excluded. this is all the more necessary now that we are opening up an additional channel of direct information to the patient and to healthcare professionals who will also now have the opportunity to quickly send a valuable feedback message to the surveillance system. in this connection, i would point out the need for training measures for health workers and an information campaign for patients to make more effective use of this tool.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, i would like to thank the european parliament, and in particular the rapporteur, mrs klass, the non-attached rapporteurs and the members of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, for their considerable work. the 330 amendments adopted by the committee on the environment and the overall compromise adopted last week are a testament to their commitment and interest in this matter. these amendments support the general thrust of the commission's proposal. let me dwell on what we consider to be the most important outstanding issues. firstly, the extension of the union's authorization system and the procedures relating to it. in order to reach agreement on this issue, it is essential to reach a compromise on the study of the union authorisation system and related procedures, and in particular on the role of the european chemicals agency. while the commission can in principle support the extension of the union authorisation system to a wider group of biocidal products, this support can only be given under two conditions. first, echa and the commission must have adequate resources to handle the additional workload. the absence of sufficient means will result in delays that will undermine the benefits of the union authorisation system. secondly, we must devise an appropriate mechanism for the gradual extension of the scope of the system, for example by spreading the introduction of product types over time or by using horizontal criteria such as similar conditions of use. as regards the procedures related to union authorisation, the role of echa will be essential in the functioning of the system. we need to ensure that echa's resources are used for tasks which add value in terms of harmonisation, or which cannot be carried out more effectively by the member states. i would add that the procedures must be designed to cope with the extension of the scope of the union's authorization system. secondly, the derogations from the exclusion criteria. on the thorny issue of derogations from the exclusion criteria, i note that the compromise amendment strikes a reasonable balance between the objective of ensuring a high level of protection of the environment and human health and the need to provide for some flexibility in the event that no alternative solution exists. thirdly, national derogations in the context of mutual recognition. while we recognize that national derogations under mutual recognition may be justified in certain circumstances, we believe that these derogations should be examined on a case-by-case basis by the commission. the authorization of these derogations without provision for supervision by the commission risks jeopardizing the internal market for biocidal products, which the regulation is intended to promote. the fourth question is the definition of low-risk products. as regards the definition of low-risk products, we must strive to establish a pragmatic definition, which is a prerequisite for an effective policy on these products. efforts are still needed before the criteria for low-risk products can be clearly defined. question no 5: what are the items covered? as far as the articles are concerned, we support the amendments to extend the controls to the active substances. as regards the labelling of these articles, we support the general approach of imposing different rules depending on whether the articles have an internal or external effect, for example, whether there is intentional disposal of the product or whether it comes into contact with humans or the environment. question no 6: opportunities in the field of transport while we support the compromise amendment on opportunities, we have serious concerns about some other amendments relating to the concept of inclusion by company. the seventh question is about nanomaterials. on the question of nanomaterials, the commission, in keeping with its policy of decision-making based on scientific evidence and its desire to improve knowledge of these materials, agrees with the need for a definition of nanomaterials and, where appropriate, the principle of separate evaluation of nanomaterials. finally, the animal tests. while the commission supports the objective of reducing the use of animal testing, it believes that this should not be done at the expense of a high level of protection of the environment and human health. i shall now follow your debate on the proposal and the proposed amendments closely and i shall be able to provide further clarification on these and other points in my closing remarks.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in respect of the use of certain medicinal products. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i congratulate my colleague and rapporteur, mrs klaß, on her fruitful cooperation, which has enabled me to enrich her report with some important points of view that have emerged in the committee on the internal market. i also hope that it will support some of the amendments i have tabled for tomorrow's vote, which are designed to avoid double risk assessments for products already authorized and therefore already assessed, unless they are justified by new information indicating the need for new controls. i am also pleased that, albeit gradually, there will be the opportunity for centralised authorisation for all product categories. in this respect, i would ask commissioner tajani - he has already said some things in his report - how and how much will be needed to equip the eca to deal effectively and smoothly with the large number of dossiers that will be presented.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the term 'biocidal' refers to active substances and preparations containing one or more active substances, in the form in which they are supplied to the user, which are intended to destroy, eliminate, render harmless, prevent the action of, or otherwise exert a controlling effect on, any harmful organism by chemical or biological means. so, basically, almost all the fruits and vegetables that come to our table are processed. although these products are now indispensable, since most of the animal or plant pests are increasingly resistant to their action, they must be kept under control because they are often harmful to man. for example, some of them, when applied to foodstuffs, have a specific shelf life, so they must be used at specific times of the year and in specific qualities. failure to comply with these deadlines has serious consequences for the human being taking the treated product: from immediate allergic reactions to those related to prolonged use over time which can be and lead to serious health conditions. biocides also include actual poisons, such as rodenticides, which are freely available for domestic use. unfortunately, although there are risks in allowing these products to be sold, we cannot think of banning their use at a time when we are witnessing a considerable increase in the number of rodent and pest colonies in european cities. the use of different types of biocides, whether or not authorized in the various member states, and even more so the entry of goods from third countries where they are not yet controlled, must also be given special attention, precisely for the free movement of goods within the european union. we must ensure that the european union takes the use of these products seriously and that the expiry dates for their toxicity are strictly observed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner tajani, the proposal for a regulation on biocidal products which we are examining will be designed to simplify the authorization and renewal procedures for the placing of biocidal products on the market. this simplification will lead to a reduction in costs and administrative burden for businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, without reducing the protection of the environment and human and animal health. it has been very difficult to strike a balance between these two aspects, but i think that some of the compromise amendments reached between the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs, whom i thank for their hard work, have been an important step forward. in order to remain consistent with the call for simplification, i believe that the comparative evaluation procedure should not be required for those biocides for which a safe use has been demonstrated and not as it is now required for any biocide. i hope that the amendment tabled in this way in the plenary will be accepted by the house.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that this debate which mr böge has stimulated with the report he has presented on this occasion is an important opportunity to reflect clearly on the future of our european union. we cannot continue to think that we can implement different, ever wider ranging measures with a framework of resources that is substantially limited. i therefore fully support the report under discussion and i welcome mr böge's initiative. it is clear that the interinstitutional agreement has not been respected by the council and the commission, and one has to ask why this mid-term review has not been planned and why we are not continuing to operate as we are doing with iter, as we did in the past, last year, with the recovery plan, and as we did in the past with galileo and other projects, drawing on the margins rather than a serious reprogramming of the financial framework. today we have an additional challenge: we have the prerogatives which the member states have transferred to the european union by the treaty of lisbon. i do not think that we can continue in this way, we need to stop working on the mere redistribution of existing resources or the use of existing flexibility mechanisms. i therefore believe that it is more useful to make a commitment in the opposite direction, namely to create reserves and margins to enable the union to respond concretely, not only to current needs but also and above all to future needs, both within the financial framework itself and within the individual budget headings. finally, i would like to stress the importance of the debate on the part of the report which calls for reflection on the european financial stabilisation mechanism, which must be oriented towards analysis and forecasting, and therefore towards regulating its possible impact on the european budget.
member of the commission. − madam president, draft amending budget no 7 is a follow-up to the decision to establish the european financial stabilisation mechanism, which is in turn the response to the dramatic developments of march, april and may in the financial markets. therefore, the european financial stabilisation mechanism – up to eur 60 billion – has been established in addition to the already existing balance of payments facility, with more or less the same philosophy. in response to the question from lászló surján, under the normal desired circumstances, even if a european financial stabilisation mechanism is mobilised, this should not have an impact on the eu budget. under normal circumstances, that is, where the beneficiary state taking the loans repays the loans. it is activated as a guarantee but without a financial impact upon the budget. in the highly unlikely scenario – not zero probability, unfortunately, but very unlikely scenario – that a member state defaults on its obligations, we have to ensure that the european union is ready in time to fulfil its legal obligations towards the lenders. so we should be ready for this unlikely bad scenario. put simply, that is, in a sense, what is behind draft budget no 7. therefore, as with the balance of payments facility, we proposed creating a structure for the new budget item on the expenditure side of the budget and a corresponding new budget article on the revenue side of the budget. these are token entries – as happened with the balance of payments facilities – and have the same logic behind them. the philosophy behind this is that we should be ready in case. i am therefore happy that draft amending budget no 7 has been discussed and has already been formally adopted by the council on 13 september. now we hope for the same decision from parliament.
the amendment to the budget we are discussing today and which we will be voting on in the coming days is an important document, it marks the last step in the implementation of the financial stabilisation mechanism, the mechanism which was so much needed last may to stem the serious storm that hit the euro and thus the union. out of this storm came a certainty: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the european union has succeeded in giving a united response, it has found the courage and the strength to give, and that is what we are discussing today. this new budget line marks a clear boundary, it is the first step towards a new shared vision of the financial and in future also economic policies of the member states in relation to the european budget. it is the first step towards that integrated six-month period in which the budgetary choices of individual countries and the community budget will be more closely compared. the budget thus returns to the centre stage the instrument which has always been the key to implementing the union's policies and is also a key instrument for building post-lisbon europe. it is a question of the need to ensure that the european union is able to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the single market.
member of the commission. - i am watching developments in greece with great interest and also with respect, respect for a government that looks ahead from its position, has taken far-reaching measures - savings, spending cuts, reforms - and is doing everything in partnership with the commission and european and global authorities to consolidate the budget and thus contribute to a stable euro. we see the big picture, of course. but it is clear that we cannot suspend the general rules of the internal market or impose a moratorium for a few years. i am therefore not simply entitled to do so, but i am obliged to promote the development towards the single market, away from monopoly, towards liberalisation, towards competition and thus towards a stronger consumer. the rules of the internal market are much older than my membership of the commission. unbundling is a few years old. i have to pursue it accordingly. i am willing to interpret this memorandum of understanding not in a restrictive way but in a pragmatic way, that is to say, leaving as much room as possible for market developments and for the actions of the greek government. in unbundling, for example, we do not prescribe that the networks be sold, sold off. we are demanding transparency, we are demanding that the current owner of the grid, who is active in the energy industry, can no longer interfere in the operational activities of a subsidiary of the grid, and that the grid is open to anyone who wants to use it, that is, also to competitors in the gas and electricity markets. the commission is trying to do justice to the general interest, to the interests of greece. this is not just true for the budget, it is also true for the energy market.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the subject is still very high on my agenda. we have discussed here in the plenary on 7 july five key areas of action to ensure the highest possible level of safety for offshore operations in europe and neighbouring regions. we are now finalising the necessary and appropriate measures. one aspect is testing and control. we want to ensure that the highest safety standards are consistently applied within the eu. this requires close cooperation, closer than at present, with and between national regulatory authorities in member states, which currently have overall responsibility and are responsible for inspections and for rules and compliance. we want to ensure that member states apply uniform controls on offshore activities, with the same level of strictness throughout europe. the authorisation of offshore activities is also a matter for the member states under the applicable law. my advice before the summer was to exercise caution in relation to offshore activities and to postpone ongoing work or the granting of licences, particularly when working under extreme conditions and conditions. some eu countries, including italy, have opted for such a preventive approach. the commission then takes steps to ensure a high level of safety worldwide. the first concerns the european regions, namely the mediterranean. we have common interests in the environmental field, because an accident in eu waters can quickly have devastating consequences for the southern coasts of the sea or vice versa. we have therefore contacted the relevant ministries in algeria and libya and proposed to the ministers that they cooperate actively in this area. the mediterranean sea is indivisible in its environmental qualities. the commission's objective is to propose high safety standards worldwide. we've had discussions and contacts with the us authorities and the capitol. i believe that european legislation should include clear liability rules. improvements are possible in this area, notably by extending the spatial scope of existing environmental law to allow for better coverage of issues such as biodiversity and consequential damage. the directive on the criminal protection of the environment will come into force at the end of this year. if necessary, we will make further legal proposals. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the mediterranean is not a place where the sea is not safe, and that the mediterranean is not a place where the sea is not safe. this is not just for european waters, but for all waters, including those bordering the eu. we want to examine approval procedures in this respect and we must provide for the demonstration of the operator's technical ability to deal with critical situations. the commission also notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the compensation granted to the airport operator was in line with the market economy operator test. if necessary, this creates an insurance obligation. the commission will present in a few weeks' time a communication on the safety of offshore oil and gas drilling, with measures such as those outlined above, to ensure the highest level of safety for european citizens and the environment. we shall also take this communication to the parliament's specialised committee, itre, and then we shall be ready for a more in-depth discussion there.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to make a point. i am sure that the commissioner's assurances are well received, and i must say that, but does he not think that further action against the libyan authorities is possible so that this moratorium we have been talking about can really be put into effect, and does he not think that this strong coordination can be achieved even more effectively in the context of the mediterranean action plan?
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow's vote is important for over 90 million europeans who live in the mountains. the treaty of lisbon, in article 174, recognises the importance of mountains and specific territories, but this article must be implemented through a concrete policy. we must move from words to deeds: the mountain is not just clean air, greenery and holidays, but there are also real problems that mountain dwellers face every day with great difficulty. the lack of infrastructure makes it more difficult to move people and goods and access services, with additional costs for businesses and citizens. to avoid depopulation, mountain dwellers must be guaranteed a dignified life with modern services and adequate health care, just like any other european citizen. the mountain also has a great opportunity for clean energy production, energy saving and quality agriculture with respect for the environment. all of this requires money to be invested in a framework programme that covers all aspects of mountain life. this initiative was supported by all the political groups and european mountain organisations such as euromontana and aem, and it was also the result of a wish expressed by president barroso himself. it is now up to the commission to implement this request swiftly, involving the territory in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. i would like to conclude with a concrete proposal to create a commissioner for the mountains and specific territories to coordinate this new european policy effectively.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, bringing the problems of the sparsely populated regions of the outermost islands - especially because of my parliamentary commitment to the mountains - to this house is the first step in creating a network for the preservation of these regions, where european citizens live with very peculiar living conditions, often with low incomes, sparsely populated and with a limited density, with an ageing population because young people often leave these territories and with a graduation rate below the national average. these, and particularly gdp, but not only, are the criteria which must inspire a strategy of support for mountain areas by the union, which are subject to poorer services, infrastructure problems and are particularly vulnerable because of the agricultural crisis and climate change. the mountain, a place of life, a subject of study, must now also be a political laboratory, because it is an immense resource for the cultural potential, for clean energy, for quality agriculture, for the quality of life indispensable to guarantee greater well-being to urban populations. but it is also up to the commission, the member states and local authorities to ensure that local communities can take their own destiny into their own hands in the europe of the 21st century, with an integrated approach and, above all, active participation in decision-making. i say this from experience, it is better in the mountains to organize ten local sports trophies than one world cup, and this is the way to work for everyone: the commission's proposal is to increase the number of initiatives and to increase political creativity, starting with the creation of a specific delegation for the islands and the mountains within the college of commissioners.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the treaty of lisbon provides for special attention to be paid to regions with serious and permanent handicaps. that is why i support mr provera's initiative for the agricultural, environmental and cultural recovery of these territories. i therefore ask the commission to take action as soon as possible to implement a mountain policy which will counteract the difficulties, the demographic decline and the abandonment of mountain areas, which will lead to environmental degradation. it is essential to provide for the agricultural activity, the quality of life and the cultural heritage of those living in disadvantaged conditions, and synergy between the actions undertaken by the commission, the member states and the regional and local authorities is essential. a fundamental principle of the european union is subsidiarity, an indispensable tool for promoting the development of disadvantaged areas through long-term and targeted interventions based on local proposals. it's a major challenge, and the effort will be to keep, or rather, bring man back to these territories.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would also like to give the prize for hypocrisy to commissioner reding, who has forgotten to explain - at least as far as the texts show - the situation of the roma in the grand duchy of luxembourg, where there is no problem of expelling roma simply because the establishment of roma camps is not provided for by law, it is forbidden, so there are many europeans. i hope that the morning will come when this european council, in which at last a head of government and a head of state has felt it his duty to give a good lesson in patriotism to the european commission, which must not allow itself, even through its commissioners, to insult a member state, especially a state like france which can teach everyone the concepts of freedom and humanity. there is a profound difference between what you call european law and the law of nations. the european right is perhaps the right to break into other people's houses and steal, to keep children out of school and exploit them, as not racist populism claims, but as le monde reports the romanian prime minister declared during the "déjeuner de fiel" on 16 september.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, two questions, two sincere questions to the president of the european council and the vice-president of the commission. the first is the rationale behind the growth of the external action service: i was very impressed that among the appointments decided by vice-president ashton, there was the appointment of a dutchman in south africa, a frenchman in chad, a spaniard in argentina, an italian in albania. i am sure that the commission will be able to give us a clear answer to this question. where is the european logic in the organization of this service? it is a sincere question, because i believe we have great ambition about what europe's role is for the future, and if europe's role is merely to accommodate the regional policies of the various member governments, we are all wrong. the second question concerns the subject of rome. now, it is true that for political reasons one can criticize this or that government for the solutions adopted, but the underlying problem remains unavoidable: we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. without an answer to this question, we will obviously continue to pick on each other without understanding the real discomfort of our fellow citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen a startling spectacle in the new body you are chairing this week: sarkozy and berlusconi have called into question the treaties signed by their countries, and we have understood that the french and italian prime ministers, who are in serious difficulties in their countries, would like a commission that is bent to their will. the first does not accept criticism, the second would even like to take away the commissioners' right to speak. let us remember, as this parliament has done, that the roma are european citizens on european soil! the treaties must be defended, the instruments are there, we must not be afraid to apply infringement procedures. if we do not defend the principles of european integration, how can we share the strategies for overcoming the economic crisis? the forces in the field, mr president, have spoken. the european parliament, its presidency and the commission must respond to the populism that is betting on the europe of fears by means of more social europe and more citizenship, and we believe that this is the bet of this political generation.
in writing. a crisis like the one we are experiencing must never happen again. but europe's new economic governance must consider not only the size of public debt but also its sustainability in the medium to long term. private debt, the sustainability of social security systems are as important as public debt as such for the stability of public finances. countries that had public debt under control have entered into serious crises precisely because of the heavy indebtedness of households and businesses. and countries with high public debt, like italy, have done well. the sovereign debt must be brought under control with more penetrating and effective obligations and monitoring. but we do not need new mechanisms for debt recovery which are too automatic and pro-cyclical and which risk not reaching the objective and even preventing measures to stimulate economic growth. we do not need sanctions when we are still trying to prevent the outbursts, almost like a pre-trial conviction. we need to give more attention to structural reforms that are designed to boost competitiveness and economic growth in europe. with competitiveness comes economic growth, with growth comes higher tax revenues and real financial consolidation.
the agenda includes the statements by the council and the commission on the financial surveillance package.
there's gonna be the "catch the eye" on the statement on the financial oversight package. but i want to be very clear: i shall be absolutely uncompromising about speaking time, because we have accumulated a considerable delay and there is a long voting session. so when the time is up, i'll have to take the floor and as far as the "catch the eye" is concerned, we'll have to respect the five-minute time limit. i'm sorry, but this morning is like that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are convinced that in the global market no actor, no product, no territory can escape adequate regulation and control. the recent crises have highlighted the need to take decisions within 48 hours and to have common rules. i too big to fail must be monitored at european level! moreover, in the event of future crises, the costs should not fall on the citizens! we need to put transparency, accountability, and ethics back at the heart of the financial system! i welcome the agreement reached, in which parliament played a crucial role. my position has always been that we should have independent authorities with powers to impose sanctions and to intervene in specific cases. i agree with the creation of two funds which cannot be conceived as a tax on the banks, which would not be the solution. all this is for the sake of recovery, to avoid the costs being passed on to small and mediumsized enterprises and citizens, and above all because we do not have a single banking system.
member of the commission. - madam president, at the end of this debate i would like to thank each of the rapporteurs, the heads of the groups and the members who spoke almost unanimously in support of this compromise and this agreement. i want to confirm that these new european authorities and the european systemic risk board will not replace the national supervisors, but will build on them, make them work better together, ... (the president requests silence)... network them, in total pool the expertise to have a good european response, when necessary, in the face of european risks and sometimes more, in financial institutions which i told you were largely transnational. thanks to you and the council, that framework will exist. we are going to fill it, as has been said, brick by brick: the sepa payment system, starting in october, capital rules, the revision of the market abuse directive, the financial markets directive, ucits for depositaries, rating agencies, risk management and, finally, corporate governance. that is what we are facing, not to mention the regulation of investment funds. we will do this work with determination. we will do so so that, at the end of the road, as i have said to you, ladies and gentlemen, and as has been our road map since the g20, no financial actor, no product, no market, no territory remains immune or out of reach of intelligent regulation and effective supervision. our ambition, my ambition should be that together, at the end of this short road, because the citizens are attentive and demanding - and they are right to be so - we shall have built, ladies and gentlemen, together, and not too late, the best system of regulation and supervision in the world. europe must have the ambition to build the model of regulation and supervision that is useful in the world. that is our objective and it is in the interests of citizens, consumers and the financial industry itself.
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank all the speakers and the vast majority of those who supported the texts which are before you. i am very pleased to see the interest shown by a very large number of members in this matter and in financial supervision. i would like to say first of all that this is, as many have said, the first real lesson to be drawn from the financial crisis. we have debated many, many texts, but the establishment of the new supervisory architecture and a systemic risk committee is really the first lesson that we all in europe have learned together from this financial crisis. the second point i want to stress is that this is the beginning of a process. as michel barnier has just said, we are going to put in place a whole series of other elements in this process. the regulation still needs to be strengthened considerably, and many have hinted at this. we shall continue to work in the same way between the commission, the council and your parliament. the belgian presidency is in any case fully committed to making the same commitment. i hope that in the coming days we will be able to make real progress on the directive on investment funds, hedge funds and other investment funds. we will be holding debates on rating agencies soon. i would like to reassure you about the collaboration to which mrs goulard referred. we have already proposed, and all this has been agreed, that at the informal ecofin the chairman of the econ committee, mrs bowles, should join us to take stock of the state of our work. i would not like to go on any longer because i know that there are important procedures that are going to take place, but i really hope that we will be able to see what many have called a historic vote. i am in any case giving you an appointment in the coming days, in the coming weeks, to put forward in the same way, with the same determination, a number of other texts which will be submitted to you again. i would like to thank all those who have made it possible in recent months to make progress on this issue, which, i repeat, is really the first important lesson to be drawn from the financial crisis.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot allow the european citizens to pay for the failures of a banking system which has so far failed to protect their rights. and we cannot allow our economic system to collapse under the weight of a reckless use of access to credit. my colleagues in the committee on budgets and i have ensured that the rules for the operation and financing of the new financial control and supervision authorities are appropriate and balanced, in accordance with a european budgetary policy which must take account of the difficulties faced by all the member states. on the other hand, these difficulties would be much worse if the european union did not take on the burden of preventing a crisis like the one we are currently experiencing from happening again. the beneficial effect of each of the new agencies will more than proportionally offset the costs of managing their establishment and operation. the european parliament and the epp group, which brilliantly led the negotiations to the historic agreement with the council, will be the soul of a change which will mean that taxpayers can count on a closer, richer and safer europe.
i am glad to see that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. i would like to wish both her and her daughter well, on behalf of all the members of this house, i think.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am here today symbolically with my daughter vittoria, and my thoughts are with the many women who, because of work problems, cannot carry a pregnancy safely, reconcile work and family life, or, worse still, play their best role as mothers. i would like to ask the european institutions, starting with this parliament, to make a greater effort to ensure that no woman is left at a crossroads.
i would like to thank you again for your kind words and for your warm appeal. we shall now proceed to the vote.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for details of the vote: see minutes)
we can start the vote. i would point out that amendment no 338 has been withdrawn and that amendments nos 8 and 317 do not cover all the linguistic aspects and will therefore not be put to the vote.
all right, we'll provide, mate, but you never know what might happen in life one day, so... we'll try to correct the positions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i'm sorry i went to get the pacifier. the report adopted today contains positive elements which we hope will be put into practice soon. i would like to express my particular satisfaction with what has been done to protect small and mediumsized enterprises, especially with regard to the procedures for obtaining information on the formulation of products, access to which is often prohibitive for a small enterprise, and not only because of the cost. a great deal of effort has been made to simplify the marketing authorisation procedure for these products, particularly as regards the timing of decisions by the competent authorities. i hope that we can continue along this path, where the harmonization of the european internal market must lead to the emergence of the real qualities of companies, to greater competition.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the adoption of this report, one of the strategic objectives of the european institutions for the coming years is to revive the internal market. the economic crisis has shown how unattainable this is in a fragmented financial services market, where all types of intermediaries, infrastructures and financial markets are interdependent and potentially fundamental to the system as a whole, so that the failure of one of them can have a macro-level impact with devastating consequences. the economic recovery that all european citizens are eagerly awaiting is based on a sound and reliable financial sector, precisely because it is properly regulated and supervised. i believe that the adoption of the financial supervision package, and in particular the creation of a european systemic risk board, represents an important step towards the objective of a harmonised european supervisory system, to give confidence to businesses and citizens.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and his colleague on their work. i voted in favour of this text because i believe that in a difficult economic situation such as the present one the european union cannot have instruments that are rigidly fixed, and the multiannual financial framework has proved that to be so. the closure shown by some institutions (the council and the commission) is certainly not the response that european citizens expect. outside this chamber millions of workers have lost their jobs: they need our support. the eu budget must be truly european. i am convinced that in difficult economic situations, greater budgetary flexibility is necessary, if not essential, if the eu is to be able to give concrete answers to current needs but also to those not foreseen at the time of budget adoption. in conclusion, the time has come to provide the eu with its own resources.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the year, when the accounts are drawn up, the balance sheets of the companies tell a story of work, sales, taxes paid and much more. they describe the starting point one year earlier and the arrival point after twelve months, but they do not capture the path that led from one point to another, irrelevant for tax purposes, but absolutely essential for the very survival of the company. it is not uncommon in day-to-day management to have temporary cash flows, accounts that will be closed at break-even, but which temporarily take liquidity. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. of course, this is the best way to combat evasion, provided that the workers who need to make the purchase and who circulate the money are not penalized. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of vat.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the directive because it aims to simplify the procedure for vat refunds and, above all, to reduce the administrative burden by introducing an electronic procedure which allows the taxpayer to submit a single refund request in the member state of establishment. late vat refunds should be avoided as they can have serious financial consequences for companies operating in the internal market and have a negative impact on the economic recovery in the eu as well as on the smooth functioning of the internal market.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the measures voted today will ensure greater protection for european patients by also providing them with more detailed information on the possible side effects of certain medicines. i am convinced that the establishment of a centralised database, linked to national databases, as envisaged by the rapporteur, is a valuable tool for all european citizens to be aware of any undesirable effects of medicines in circulation in the eu. the european union has a duty to make its citizens as well informed as possible in the field of health: only then will they be able to make the best choices. i am also convinced that a good pharmacovigilance policy is a valuable indirect prevention tool to avoid cases of poisoning or misuse of medicines. in this connection, the black sticker 'this medicinal product is subject to additional controls' on medicinal products subject to more detailed controls can ensure greater safety and more precise information for the public. for these reasons i voted in favour of both texts presented by mrs mcavan.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mrs mcavan's report because i believe that european public health policy must be coordinated. the control of pharmaceutical products is equivalent to ensuring health safety and improving the effectiveness of the european health system. the aim of the report is to examine the safety of medicines once they have been placed on the market and to examine european legislation in this area in greater detail. i agree with the structure and the message of the report, which is to strengthen cooperation between member states, to set up an advisory committee on pharmacovigilance risk assessment, to increase the transparency of the pharmacovigilance system by listening to the individual citizen, to facilitate the withdrawal of dangerous medicines from the market and to lay the foundations for a better health system.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, medicinal products make a vital contribution to the health of european citizens. however, they can have adverse effects, which, according to the european commission, account for about 5% of all hospital admissions. pharmacovigilance is the process and science of monitoring the safety of medicinal products, including the collection and management of safety data, the evaluation of data to identify safety concerns, the actions to be taken, and the evaluation of the procedure followed and the results obtained. the commission wants to improve the current system of pharmacovigilance by simplifying procedures, increasing transparency, and better defining the roles and participation of stakeholders. however, i believe that there is room for further changes, particularly as regards consumer and data protection: for example, consumers and healthcare professionals should have full access to the european eudravigilance database to prevent the recurrence of adverse reactions to medicinal products, should be able to use not only a web-based reporting format but also other tools such as e-mail, fax or telephone; i also believe that the financing of surveillance systems should continue to be public so that the authorities can be held accountable.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this proposal because the need to provide patients with correct information has been evident for too long. death from the side effects of medicines is the fifth leading cause of death in the eu in recent years, which is why action such as that advocated by this parliament could no longer be extended. i have therefore chosen to guarantee quality of life for the patient, to give certainty about the possible occurrence of adverse reactions in the patient, to make the drug a real ally of the sufferer, and finally to allow a drug to be promptly withdrawn from the market in the event of problems. in our europe, the creation of a single web portal in all languages is a great innovation and a great support for all european patients who can thus define themselves, in their own right, as united in protecting their health.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the text which has been adopted is a considerable improvement on the original proposal and i congratulate mrs klass on her successful mediation. i welcome the achievement of the objectives of a higher level of data protection for industry and the gradual introduction of a centralised authorisation procedure at european level for the placing of these products on the market. the identification of more stringent labelling requirements will also help the consumer to make a more informed and safer choice. in short, we are moving in the right direction, but there are still some steps to be taken: the regulatory framework on research and development is not consistent with other advanced sectoral regulations such as the reach directive. the financial allocation required for the european chemicals agency to carry out its new evaluation task has also not yet been communicated. i expect the commission to make this clear in the near future, also in view of the workload already imposed on this body by the reach directive.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the role of biocides has always been a matter of some controversy, probably because of the difficulty of identifying and defining them. but the fact remains that biocides have many applications in our daily lives and it is therefore necessary to know their real impact on the safety and health of all of us. for these reasons i voted for the simplification and harmonization of the rules for european industry but also for the member states which will have new regulations adapted to new civil requirements. the introduction of a harmonised system of approval criteria will help to avoid double risk assessments of products already authorised: the commission has already taken a number of important steps in this direction.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, biocides are an integral part of our civilisation and are indispensable to meet our high hygiene and health requirements; biocidal products must be effective in preventing disease and infection, but may, at the same time, be highly dangerous: this requires optimal management of the substances themselves. the new regulation on the use of biocidal products must ensure that producers, i.e. medium-sized enterprises, can comply with the provisions adopted at the production stage without encountering competitive disadvantages. it is also important that both consumers and producers of materials containing biocides can rely on minimum standards that are valid in all eu countries. in my view, the regulation proposed by the commission needs substantial changes and improvements in order to achieve its objectives, including addressing the shortcomings of the current directive, improving the authorisation procedure and streamlining the decision-making process, while maintaining a high level of protection. the new regulation will have to pay particular attention to three key areas: environmental protection, consumer safety and safe, practice-oriented application of the rules by producers. the new regulation will also provide for a simplified authorisation procedure to avoid unnecessary costs and excessive fees.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european financial system is to be maintained by careful risk management and a careful assessment of the structural stability of the whole sector. a new supervisory authority means that the union institutions will take a stronger responsibility for crisis prevention by discouraging free riding and monitoring behaviour and attitudes. in view of the growing integration of national markets, with the inevitable lowering of defensive barriers, concerted action is needed to make threats, whether internal or external, immune.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the european insurance and occupational pensions authority because i believe that it is necessary to close the gaps that exist today in terms of coordination, the uniform application of eu law and trust between national supervisory authorities. the recent financial crisis has in fact highlighted the inefficiency of some national supervisory models, which have failed to deal effectively with the problematic situations that have been created in the reality of european financial markets. i can therefore only welcome and support the choice to strengthen the supervisory framework, based on an intervention aimed at identifying instruments capable of preventing the occurrence of risks to the stability of the financial system in the future. the new system of financial supervision is therefore intended to fill the gaps in the sector, to improve the functioning of the internal market and, finally, to ensure a high and uniform level of regulation and supervision, taking account of the needs of the individual member states.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, most economists believe that forecasts are almost never reasonably certain, so the only remedy is to be vigilant and to be immune. the european parliament, together with the council of ministers of economy and finance and the commissioners responsible, has done a very good job. let us not be fooled into thinking that this is enough, nor that the past can be erased, but we can once again have confidence in the banking and financial sector in the future, since macroprudential supervision is entrusted to a body whose task is to monitor the entire european market, the entire euro area, and not its fragmentation, which is no longer valid today. moreover, the protection of this authority extends from european countries to all those whose currency is in any way linked to the euro, and thus to our companies and all those who do business with them.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully support the report and the rules introduced which aim to bring greater stability to the market. the report was necessary to safeguard the unity of the internal market. the protection of the internal market is essential! however, i have doubts about the supervision that will be the responsibility of the european central bank, several times in the past the central banks, which should have been supervising, have not done so and much of this crisis is their fault. i would have preferred a different control organ. that is why i voted in favour of the text but abstained in the vote on the legislative resolution.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since the launch of the financial services action plan parliament has played a central role in building the single market for financial services, promoting not only harmonisation, transparency and fair competition but also ensuring the protection of investors and consumers. long before the financial crisis, parliament has on several occasions called for the strengthening of effective european level playing field for all stakeholders, pointing out major shortcomings on the part of europe in the surveillance of increasingly integrated financial markets. in all its reports parliament has called on the commission to examine how to move towards a more integrated supervisory structure. the need for effective surveillance of the systemic and prudential risks of the main market players was also noted. in order to move towards a more integrated supervisory structure, the commission has published legislative proposals to establish a new network of european supervisory authorities focusing on three pillars: the first for banking, the second for insurance and occupational pensions, the third for financial instruments and markets. finally, a european systemic risk board should be established to monitor and assess potential threats to financial stability.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the establishment of one or more authorities is necessary but not sufficient to detect signs of anomalies and prevent problems arising in the financial markets. the second step is to calibrate these authorities so that they are given non-redundant, concrete, and achievable functions and tasks. the new institutions are not there to discharge responsibility, to identify the guilty and punish them, but to study the markets and to point out the critical points, to highlight the wrong trends and attitudes, to propose solutions. the aim must not be punishment, because no financial punishment can ever restore trust; the aim must be to prevent problems, to solve them early, to identify those indicators which, more than others, anticipate the emergence of possible problems. this report analyses the following critical issues and attempts to address them by designing a mechanism which, ex ante and with our knowledge of financial mechanisms, has a very high probability of working well.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the rapporteur on his year-long work and the comprehensive results achieved. it is now well known that the financial crisis first and the economic crisis second have highlighted how crucial it is for europe to have a single voice: in the face of a global economic crisis, the eu cannot be divided. we have seen that european financial regulation was inadequate and that the supervisory mechanisms proved to be ineffective. the report therefore attempts to remedy these shortcomings: the attempt to establish a genuine european authority with clear responsibilities is entirely to be welcomed. the effort to establish a mechanism for resolving future crises is also commendable. our task is first and foremost to protect the interests of citizens and savers, who in some cases have seen their savings go up in smoke: the commission has therefore decided to set up an eu fund, pre-financed by the financial institutions, to protect depositors as provided for in amendment no 137. i therefore consider the report to be balanced in its intentions, even when it identifies a very specific role for smes (see amendments 169-170), which are still paying the highest price of this crisis. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the banking system, which performs its crucial social and economic function, has the characteristic of pursuing multiple objectives and often causing undesirable effects. while the main purpose of shareholders is wealth creation, the main purpose of some stakeholders may be to support a cash-strapped business system or to create wealth through financial instruments that facilitate savings. while the objectives of each are sacred, the impact of management decisions in these enterprises on the surrounding economic and social fabric cannot be overlooked. it is therefore the duty of politics to safeguard the interests of the various actors, while demanding that no one should shirk his moral and social duties. it is therefore europe's task to ensure that everyone can achieve his goals without clashing with the other actors involved. and we must applaud the establishment of an authority which will be able to carry out this mission.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the present financial crisis has brought to light a problem which the european parliament had denounced many years ago, namely the inadequacy of financial regulation and the weakness of market surveillance mechanisms. parliament warned that in order to avoid a systemic crisis three objectives would be necessary: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the reforms and will continue to monitor the implementation of the reforms. to address regulatory gaps and to mitigate and correct the fragility of supervisory systems, the commission recommends the establishment of a network of national supervisory authorities and the introduction of a single set of rules to protect depositors, investors and consumers in the european union. the european solution would involve giving colleges of supervisors the power to impose binding rules if the national supervisors cannot reach an agreement. the report also proposes the creation of a european fund pre-financed by financial institutions to protect depositors and to help institutions in the event of their failure to do so, which could cause damage to the system as a whole. the ultimate aim of this report is to establish a future crisis resolution mechanism that reduces the chances of the european taxpayer having to deal with the consequences of a collapse of the financial system.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in a time of economic and financial crisis the european union should take strong measures at european level by increasing control over banking institutions and financial markets. the creation of four new control bodies could be a viable alternative, ensuring close cooperation with the national supervisory bodies. these would not be bodies responsible for monitoring the whole of their area of competence, but specific financial institutions composed of the highest-level representatives of the national supervisory authorities who will help to harmonise standards and regulation across eu states. in particular, the european banking authority will assess access to, availability of and costs of credit for consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises. at the end of the g20 the idea of taxing the banks, strongly supported by both president barroso and van rompuy, was not even considered. in a europe still exposed to the crisis, joint action is needed to establish common rules at european level.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european central bank has so far shown that it is a good bank. the fight against inflation has been taken seriously in frankfurt and since the introduction of the euro there has never been a systematic increase in prices above the target. this is due to the high level of professionalism of the ecb's technical staff, as well as the constant exchange with the financial and academic worlds, for effective policy monitoring and the certainty of being always up to date with the state of the art. in addition, the reputation acquired by eurotower, also thanks to the impressive legacy of the bundesbank, has made it possible to contain the extent of the crisis in europe, and to become aware of some signals on which, however, no one had jurisdiction until now. the european central bank is therefore the best candidate to assume a key role in the new european supervisory system. while not exceeding expectations, good work can be expected from those who have so far demonstrated their skills, competence and knowledge.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the eu is creating a framework for safeguarding financial stability. to avert the risk of new and serious financial crises, europe needs an institutional framework to resolve the insolvency of systemically important financial institutions. a new macro-prudential supervisory authority, the european systemic risk board (esrb), and a new micro-prudential supervisory authority, the european system of financial supervision (esfs), will be created, the efficiency of which is guaranteed by the ecb's prestige, as the new esfs will not be able to impose measures or sanctions on member states or financial institutions and its reports will not be binding. consequently, their effectiveness depends on the considerable reputation of the ecb and the recognised competence of its staff. the main purpose of the supervisory architecture is to prevent future dramatic situations such as the crisis we are currently experiencing, as well as to ensure financial stability. the core of the success of the new policy for the regulation and supervision of financial markets will be the interconnection between micro and macro supervision. in this way, the esrb secretariat will play an important role in ensuring an efficient and rapid exchange of the data involved.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the vote in favour is the result of satisfaction with the agreement reached with the council. the creation of a european authority for financial instruments and markets is a very important achievement for the european parliament, it has made a qualitative and competent contribution to the regulation, but it is an achievement of which the ppe group is particularly proud. we have always struggled to close the large regulatory gaps in this area and to correct the fragility of the supervisory systems. the integration of the european systemic risk board with the european supervisory authorities and the allocation of more powers to the new authorities was very important. this will make a decisive contribution to giving these instruments the right community dimension.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the structure of the european production system and its international competitive advantage are closely linked to innovation and human capital in the broad sense. the research and development of new solutions, or new processes for solving problems, is the basis for the well-being and prosperity of european countries in the decades to come. it is not raw materials or low labour costs that are currently making the eu a wealth importer, but the production of ideas, the training of service providers and the ability to be the first to bring useful innovations to the market. it is therefore essential, for our continued presence on the international scene, to stimulate the creation of intellectual property through fair remuneration, secured by a temporary exclusive exploitation right. in particular, this report rightly points the finger at counterfeiting and piracy, proposing measures to combat these two scourges. at the same time, i am in favour of ad hoc measures for the internet and the cultural sector, so as to avoid mass phenomena that are difficult to counteract while promoting virtuous behaviour.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the vote on the gallo report on intellectual property rights in the internal market took account of two complementary rights: the right to intellectual property is a right which is specific to the author and/or publisher of the created good and is more general in that it is a right to knowledge by those to whom the good is intended. the european union cannot be just an internal market, where businesses operate and protect the goods and services they produce, but also a common space of citizenship and freedom, where citizens can express themselves and inform each other, including each other. the creation of an excessive and unjustified and unfair limitation on the free circulation of intellectual creations, which would bend everything to private interests, could compress the common space where the expression of thought takes on the importance of the public good. it is therefore important that intellectual creations be protected, but it is equally important that the means of protecting them should not be excessive, in order to make them fully available in ways and times reasonably short for the benefit of the whole community, starting with the internet.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the gallo report on the protection of intellectual property rights in the internal market broadly incorporates what has already been said in the european commission's previous communication, confirming the need for a two-pronged protection of these rights, on the one hand, and of consumers, on the other. this is an important report, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises, which are very common in my region and are often helpless in the face of infringements of intellectual property rights. i also share the protection that has been sought for the private user, considering 'private copying' as an exception to infringement and supporting information campaigns directed at consumers on the legality or otherwise of products purchased either physically or via the web. in view of the contents and the excellent work done by mrs gallo, i shall vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, counterfeiting remains a problem of vast proportions within the european market. unfortunately, although this has been a subject of debate for many years now, few people really realise the very violent impact of copyright infringement on our economies, hence the need to raise awareness amongst the institutions to think deeply about the possibility of finding concrete and satisfactory solutions. the report also calls on the commission to take concrete measures to combat online piracy. it is not easy but it is necessary to find a balance between free access to the internet and the fight against piracy. the report by mrs gallo is perfectly suited to this purpose, and that is why i am voting in favour of it.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully support the gallo report on strengthening the enforcement of intellectual property rights and i share the call on the commission to work urgently on a revision of the laws for the protection of ipr applicable to both the internal and external markets. in the age of the digitalisation of our society, it is essential to find legislative and non-legislative measures that ensure a lasting balance between free access to the internet and the fight against counterfeiting and piracy. only in this way can we facilitate the access of european industries to the digital market, without geographical borders, solving those problems of multi-territorial licences that today block both the possibility of our products being sold legally and our consumers in accessing the information necessary for a safe purchase. i fully share the importance, as expressed in the gallo report, of the role of european customs, which must now be able to take concrete action to block goods suspected of infringing ipr, and i therefore ask the commission to work on a customs policy which includes problems relating to property rights and to intensify the debate and negotiations on the acta anti-counterfeiting trade agreements.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in a global world where the internet is flourishing without control and protection, counterfeiting and piracy are the masters. failure to value intellectual property, a vital asset for businesses, means failing to encourage innovation and growth by ensuring fair remuneration for work done. a separate chapter is counterfeiting of trade marks, which, in addition to harming businesses economically, can also be harmful from the point of view of consumer safety. another good thing is that you can download it for personal use and legally from the internet. it's still a crime to do it for profit. we therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the resolution on the european strategy for the development of mountain, island and sparsely populated regions because i believe it is important to re-launch the theme of territorial cohesion and the harmonious development of all the geographical areas that make up the european union. i believe that only greater coordination and closer cooperation between the european institutions, the member states and local authorities can make geographically or demographically disadvantaged areas truly competitive. it is also necessary to take account of the specificities of each region in order to redistribute resources for regional development in a fair and efficient manner. in particular, the european union must take care of the situation of islands in order to lift them out of the marginal conditions often linked to insularity. to this end, cohesion policy should also make use of other policies which can have a significant impact on the future of these territories: i am referring, for example, to instruments for regulating migration flows which, in islands such as sicily, have a significant impact on the socioeconomic growth of the region.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the definition of a european strategy for the economic and social development of mountain, island and sparsely populated regions is a suitable way of recalibrating the measures implementing cohesion policy on the basis of the assessment of the additional criterion of 'territory'. in my view, the intervention succeeds in fostering the 'particular attention' to regions with territorial specificities introduced by article 74 tfeu, without, however, compromising the key role of gdp per capita as a benchmark for the allocation of resources. the commission's statement also simplified the organisation of governance, which, if not implemented, would have undermined the effectiveness of the european intervention measures. it should have been accompanied by a more courageous attempt to ease the control procedures which are a hindrance to the functioning of the system. the transparency of expenditure is an important objective, but it must be guaranteed by means of a checking mechanism which is less bureaucratic and more suited to the needs of a system which is not yet harmonized, so as not to create inequalities between the various european countries.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we support this declaration because it is important to identify a common european strategy for the economic development of mountain regions, islands and sparsely populated areas. it would be necessary to encourage initiatives on the model of the euroregion, which includes areas between italy and france with common interests. the geographical location of marginal areas creates difficulties for the inhabitants, but it is essential for the economy of europe to preserve and protect them as areas of natural importance.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that a specific european strategy for the development of mountain and island areas is needed at eu level. a strategy that takes account of aspects such as the promotion of the economy and of structures, employment policy, the safeguarding of the natural heritage, civil protection, environmental and energy policy. the principle of territorial cohesion is one of the key objectives of the european union introduced by the treaty of lisbon, with the aim of reducing regional disparities and removing natural or geographical obstacles. this requires concrete action and specific development strategies. equal opportunities must be created between these territories and the rest of the european union; one of these could be to promote tourism in mountain regions in a sustainable way, thus creating an important livelihood for the inhabitants of these areas. the madrid declaration of european ministers of 15 april 2010 also stresses the need for more effective coordination of measures implemented in the field of tourism policy and the promotion of a more innovative, sustainable and social tourism in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the democratic republic of the congo is still in a state of armed conflict, extrajudicial executions, violence against women, gross violations of the rights of children, conscription, ill-treatment, violence against minors, mass displacement, arms trafficking and the exploitation of vast natural resources, torture and inhuman and degrading treatment, the use of the death penalty, repression of freedom of expression and human rights defenders, and, last but not least, impunity. all these complaints are known to the international community, which has already expressed its deep concern on several occasions through the united nations council and the general assembly. the responsibilities of the united nations, as of the entire international community, are there and are undeniable. it is right to revise the terms of the monuc missions but also of eupol, eusec, as well as all humanitarian interventions. we have a duty to accompany the countries of the african union on their way towards full and effective respect for international agreements on the protection of human rights. it is necessary that this small piece of land, which is paradoxically the victim of huge economic interests, should not be exploited as a nobody's land, but should be able to become independent, and to establish itself, and to establish itself, in a legal order that is respected and guaranteed. the congo is a country where men like floribert chebeya bahizire die in obscure conditions, and the european union has a moral duty to take firm and decisive political action to ensure that international human rights law is respected.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the democratic republic of the congo is a country which has been subjected to exploitation and violence for decades. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the violence against women, which is now particularly affecting women and, unfortunately, also children, as documented in numerous reports by international organizations. sexual violence against women is often used as a weapon of war and spares no one. the data is staggering . about 1 100 rape cases are reviewed each month. we have just mentioned that 500 women were raped between july and august last year, which is proof that the action taken by the un peacekeepers is proving to be insufficient, as my colleague mrs matera has just pointed out. this has to stop. the number of victims is increasing day by day. the culture of impunity and the existence of a very weak, if not non-existent, judicial system are the reasons for the low importance given by the government to the problem of sexual violence. it is well known that the silent victims outnumber those who have the courage to tell the truth. the atrocities that accompany sexual violence leave victims unable to carry out many of their daily activities, and social integration tools remain lacking. this spiral of violence must stop, and we must all do more. i like to recall a sentence in closing, that if it is true that educating a woman is educating a whole nation, it is also true that raping a woman is destabilizing an entire nation.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would also like to thank the honourable members for their interventions, new ideas and new proposals. i would like too to thank them for describing the situation in the congo in such concrete terms, because we need to remind ourselves of how difficult the situation in that country still is. a very clear message has been sent to the commission that the stabilisation, consolidation and further improvement of the rule of law and handling of the human rights situation in the drc must remain a high-level priority for the european union, for the high representative and for the commission. the commission will continue its support to the congolese authorities and the congolese population through the different instruments that we have at our disposal, including development cooperation and the european initiative for human rights and democracy, to name just two. in this sense, the commission will pursue its intervention in structural justice reform, where 40 million euros have already been allocated and where we have been working since 2003. various other programmes are also being developed to strengthen even further the capacity of the judiciary to achieve a strong and accountable justice system which will contribute to ending impunity, which we all agree is totally intolerable for the future. the commission is following closely the situation with regard to human rights defenders in the country through our experts on the ground, and will continue to do so. we are also, notably, supporting different civil society organisations working in this domain. we therefore appointed a specific liaison officer in kinshasa to follow up the implementation of the eu guidelines on human rights defenders. as regards the terrible crimes and sexual violence, the commission will continue its action to fight against this violence and globally support implementation of the congolese national strategy against sexual violence. i fully agree with you that we have to determine if this strategy is working and see how we can engage our international partners to achieve better results in the future. mr president, today’s debate has proved that, despite the enormous efforts of the european union, terrible violence in the drc still continues, and we are all aware that the problem is enormous. therefore, we must work more efficiently in the future; we must look for ways better to encourage african and international partners to focus on this issue so that we will not have a repetition of this very sad debate in the future.
for the commission, - mr president, madam minister, i would like to add three additional points to my answer. firstly, in relation to monusco, many of you have referred to its role, or rather its passivity. the council has repeatedly warned against premature withdrawal of monusco, in order to avoid a vacuum and a possible further deterioration of security in the areas affected by the conflicts. overall, beyond the abuses committed, we can only applaud the way in which the united nations has handled the question of extending the mandate of the un mission in the drc. as you know, when the new mandate was being discussed at the united nations, the drc government insisted on a partial withdrawal, and the security council agreed to reduce the 2,000 peacekeepers in the mission by 30 june 2010, from 21,500 to 19,500 soldiers on the ground, but resisted pressure from kinshasa, which wanted a commitment to further reductions. so in the specific case of today's debate, we believe that accountability must be established and we welcome the fact that the united nations is ruthlessly investigating its failures. let us admit, however, that we must understand the difficult context in which monusco is working and, more than likely, advocate better coordination between the drc authorities and the un. we believe that to end monusco at this time would significantly aggravate the situation of the people and jeopardize the stabilization process in the region. the second point concerns what the european union is finally doing to support judicial reform, the fight against impunity and, in particular, sexual crimes. the european union is indeed involved at several levels, notably through eupol and eusec. i have some additional information, because i think that the means developed by our institutions are not small, not minimal, but that more than likely there is a need to evaluate the way in which they are used, and in this regard the committee on foreign and security policy, the cops, which is chaired by the belgian ambassador, walter stevens, will be visiting the drc in the coming weeks to evaluate these two missions. and finally, thirdly, mr tarabella and other members of parliament have obviously very wisely stressed the importance of tackling the illegal exploitation of natural resources in the drc, because of its link with violence, since this trafficking makes it possible to finance certain rebel movements. it is a matter which the union is following closely and we will analyse, as some of you have suggested, the recently adopted us legislation on this subject, which has been mentioned very widely in this debate. and as for president kabila's decision to stop the exploitation of mineral resources in kivu in particular, it is still a little early to analyse this decision. at this stage, we can simply say that we are rather pleased with the closure of these sites, which shows that the highest authorities in the drc are indeed engaged in the fight against the illegal exploitation of natural resources, but it is clear that this measure can only be analysed in the light of the effects it has had not only on the financing of rebel troops but also on the recovery of effective control by the authorities or on the socioeconomic well-being of the population.
i have received six motions for resolutions. in accordance with article 110 (2) of the regulation. the debate is closed. the vote will take place in the first part-session in october. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the council and commission statements on 'transatlantic relations: entry tax in the united states'.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the words you have just said are certainly not what we expected, because we expected a more decisive reaction on this subject: we cannot allow human rights to be overridden by the economy, otherwise europe has no meaning to exist. there are millions of people in laogai, millions of people who see their human rights violated. above all, we must not forget that this is also a problem for the european economy, because these products which arrive on our market then create that unfair competition which also creates economic crises in europe, and there is a loss of competitiveness, dumping. this shows that despite what the beijing government has said and done over the years, unfortunately, the results are not seen. the laogai continue to exist and unfortunately millions and millions of people - who are also minorities in these countries - see their rights trampled. we believe, and i hope, that the logic of diplomacy and consultation will give way at this point to a strong reaction from europe, which will involve a decisive opposition to all imports of laogai products, perhaps following the example of the united states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would add a few figures to those quoted by my colleagues: the fact that the laogai camps are still in operation is a matter of concern to us, and we are not going to vote for them. the laogai is one of the most repressive prison systems in the world, modelled on the soviet gulag to punish opponents of the communist regime, hence for political reasons. the european union is already having enormous difficulties in competing with the production system of the people's republic of china, whose trade union, environmental and consumer protection standards are virtually non-existent. if we accept the import of goods produced by the labour of political prisoners, we become, at least morally, complicit in these crimes which we should be helping to eliminate. otherwise, commissioner, we would confirm the impression that we are very critical of small countries and very cautious of large countries such as china. the next summit in october, i conclude, is an opportunity to raise this issue as well; i hope, commissioner, that you will not miss this opportunity and that you will come back with more favourable news.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, those who follow the god of money do not care that this money is bloodied. the chinese government uses the labour of these people at inhuman rates of work and continues to export bloody goods to europe. i do not think that the moral issue will help the european union much in solving the problem, because the european union does not yet have measures to ban the import of these goods and it is continuing its negotiations with the people's republic of china despite knowing what china is doing and where these products are coming from. i am afraid that the moral issue is not of sufficient interest to europe, and therefore our parliament is making a firm appeal to return with more determination, to deal with china unequivocally on this issue and, in the meantime - since europe is also concerned about its economy - to at least move towards having a regulation as soon as possible on the designation of origin of products, so that it can tell the chinese government that if the manufacture of works made by prisoners and their export are not prevented, everything that is chinese for us will probably be a blood-born instrument.
the agenda includes the council statement for the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the world day against the death penalty. before i give the floor to mr chastel, i shall read an extract from a letter to the members from the children of sakineh, which was sent to me by aki international on the occasion of the debate on the world day against the death penalty. i read the excerpt: "while we thank you for your commitment and attention to our mother sakineh's case, we ask for your moral support first. our only hope is the international community, and that is why we are asking the european parliament to take decisive action with all the instruments at its disposal to help our mother. we beg you not to abandon us and to accept our request for help. finally, with the hope that such primitive punishments as stoning and hanging will be eliminated forever throughout the world, we send you our most heartfelt greetings".
for the commission, - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as the president has just said, it is on behalf of the high representative, lady ashton, that i am speaking to your assembly on the european day against the death penalty. as you know, the application of the death penalty in the world presents a picture that is still mixed. for one thing, the vast majority of states are now abolitionist in law or in practice, and it is encouraging to see that the number of states is continuing to grow. we are seeing a very strong trend towards the abolition and restriction of the use of the death penalty in most countries. on the other hand, the number of executions and the way in which the death penalty is applied around the world unfortunately remains alarming: the 5 679 executions reported in 2009 are 5 679 executions too many. and with 58 countries and territories retaining the death penalty, our work is far from over. moreover, we all know that where the death penalty is still in force, there are serious problems with respect to international norms and standards, in particular in limiting the death penalty to the most serious crimes, excluding juvenile offenders from its scope or guaranteeing a fair trial. the conclusion is clear: there is no room for complacency in this matter. that is why we must use all available means, diplomatic and public awareness, in pursuing our objective and why the high representative has made european union action to abolish the death penalty a personal priority. what does that mean in practice? the future european external action service will of course be able to build on the fact that the european union is already the leading institutional actor in support of the fight against the death penalty, but the service will also represent and be an opportunity to better realise our potential. it will strengthen our capacity to speak with one voice, which will give us the opportunity to better mobilise and interconnect all the instruments available at european level in the fight against the death penalty. the european union also continues to strengthen its cooperation with other international organisations and multilateral bodies active in promoting the abolition of the death penalty. the resolution calling for a moratorium on the use of the death penalty, scheduled for the 65th un general assembly this autumn, should reflect progress towards universal abolition. the aim is to reinforce and amplify the trend towards abolition which is being observed in all regions of the world. the close cooperation between the european union and the council of europe is another asset in our fight against the death penalty. in this context, and in a very concrete way, we will join our efforts to encourage belarus to abolish the death penalty, for example by organising joint events in minsk on this world day. ladies and gentlemen, since we fundamentally believe that the abolition of the death penalty is essential to protect human dignity and respect human rights, we oppose the use of the death penalty in all cases and under all circumstances and will continue to call for its universal abolition. universal abolition is and will remain one of the priority objectives of our external action on human rights and i therefore reaffirm here on behalf of lady ashton our determination that the european union will remain at the forefront of the fight for universal abolition of the death penalty.
i should like to point out that, on a proposal from the conference of presidents, there will be a debate with only one speaker per political group. so it won't be possible, at this stage, to require the catch the eye. that's a shame, because it was a very important debate.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we all agree that europe must use its moral and political weight to fight for the abolition of the death penalty. however, in order to avoid remaining at the level of abstract declarations of principle, the european union should seriously begin to use the concrete instruments at its disposal. for example, europe should remember that many third countries which still apply the death penalty in the most brutal and barbaric ways are countries which have concluded rich economic and trade agreements with the union. and above all europe should remind these countries that by signing these agreements they have committed themselves to respecting minimum standards of fundamental rights, which is not always the case, while europe pretends not to see it. so let us start talking openly about the death penalty with china, egypt, india, pakistan, yemen, bangladesh and so on, forcing them to honour their commitments on the issue of respect for human dignity. so far europe has only preached. it is to be hoped that it will begin to act as soon as possible, which unfortunately has not yet been done in many cases.
for the commission, - madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, i can only thank you for your various speeches, since their near unanimity strengthens our action. i note that we agree on the importance which the european union must attach to this action for the abolition of the death penalty. as i said earlier, and i say it again, the high representative, mrs ashton, has made this a personal priority. we very much hope that the european union, together with its partners, will achieve a satisfactory result, as i said at the 65th general assembly of the united nations, with a resolution that will further strengthen the movement towards a universal moratorium. since we fundamentally believe that the abolition of the death penalty is essential to protect human dignity and respect for all human rights, we oppose the use of the death penalty in all cases and, i repeat, in all circumstances, and will not cease to call for its universal abolition. as i said earlier, the conclusion is clear: there is no room for complacency and we will therefore use all the means at our disposal to achieve our objective.
i have received five motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 7 october 2010. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the council on the consequences of the deepwater horizon oil spill for the european union: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customs' in the definition of the concept of 'commercial offence'. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's institutions.
madam president, the april 2010 disaster is one of the worst environmental disasters ever to have occurred on a global scale. if the same thing were to happen in a sea as enclosed as the mediterranean, the lives of tens of millions of citizens, both european and non-european, would be irreparably compromised. yet in italy - as denounced by lega ambiente - due to a misguided energy policy, there is an incredible increase in both requests and research permits granted by the ministry to identify and extract oil resources that would be enough to cover italy's energy needs for just over a year. it's obvious the game isn't worth the candle. added to this is concern over the fact that bp has announced a deal with libya for offshore mining just under 500 kilometres south of sicily. i hope that the commission will, with this measure, which is now imminent, commit itself to defending life in the mediterranean from the onslaught of complacent multinationals and governments which are unconcerned about the common good.
in writing. the oil spill in the gulf of mexico from the deepwater horizon oil spill should be a warning to europe too, and we must do everything we can to prevent similar disasters from happening in our seas. i believe that the resolution adopted today is a step in the right direction towards ensuring the protection of the marine and coastal environments in europe. i also believe that it is essential that the member states urgently examine all aspects of oil extraction and exploration in the eu. protecting our planet must be a priority, especially to ensure a sustainable environment for future generations. it is therefore necessary to adopt as soon as possible strict legislation in this area, to ensure that high safety standards are applied to all existing oil platforms and to limit future extraction.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the cop 10 on biodiversity will be held in japan from 18 to 29 october, and it is important for parliament to know what the council intends to propose in order to protect and guarantee biodiversity. one study found that of 4,000 plants examined, as many as 22 percent were classified as endangered. this means that one in five plants is at risk of extinction and - another worrying fact - many plants that are not yet discovered will also disappear. the same can be said of many animal species. with them, active ingredients in plants, which are essential for industry, which is studying new preparations that may be useful in combating diseases that are currently incurable, risk disappearing. as for animals, with their disappearance, important features for our planet are lost. the european parliament recently approved the union's legislation on this subject in september with a clear vote, which cannot but commit the council to the same line. we must not forget that the fight against poverty and therefore against hunger is also a fight to preserve the wealth of a natural heritage, of a priceless flora and fauna, a wealth which we cannot afford to lose and which we must do everything we can to preserve.
madam president, in 2002 the representatives of governments around the world committed themselves to significantly reducing biodiversity loss by 2010. this objective, although it has been repeated and reiterated in various international fora, has unfortunately not been achieved. the rate of this loss on the planet has accelerated at least 100 times faster than natural cycles and has reached unprecedented levels in the last 50 years. in europe, one in six mammals is at risk of extinction, and when one species disappears, it can create a domino effect on all the others. in the last 30 years, at least 30 percent of all animal and plant species on the planet have been lost. without ambitious targets to be adopted immediately, biodiversity loss - as has been said many times - will cost europe €1.1 trillion by 2050, as the wwf also states. so, as pointed out in the question by mrs striffler, the protection of biodiversity is an important element of the millennium development goals and the europe 2020 strategy. fostering biodiversity is like raising the arrows of our bow in the fight against extreme poverty and hunger, by implementing environmental sustainability policies that keep our planet rich and fertile. we need a new strategic vision and new targets that take account of the constant loss of species and reflect the importance we attach to this problem.
mr president, commissioner, the 10th international conference on biodiversity will open in japan on 18 october, and the european union is attending without having achieved the objective it set itself in 2001, namely to halt the loss of biodiversity by 2010. recent studies show that the natural heritage is seriously threatened, particularly the marine areas of the mediterranean countries. the european union has taken important action to combat climate change, but it must do more to protect biodiversity: the commission has also proposed that the commission should increase the appropriations for the natura 2000 programme and take more decisive action to exercise the powers of control provided for in the treaty. what are the initiatives to reduce the delay in the implementation of the natura 2000 directives?
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, we will vote against this report also because the rapporteur proposes to put pressure on the commission and the council to speed up the visa liberalisation process with kosovo. but do we know what we're talking about? we are aware that kosovo is having difficulty reintegrating the thousands of roma who had found refuge in germany? this is a very delicate situation for the whole of the european union. do we want to realise that visa liberalisation - which i have heard is only for students and the well-to-do, although i personally do not agree with this optimistic statement - will only mean a roma highway through europe? this is not what we need, given the serious problems we are facing with integration and the solution of the very serious roma problem. as regards albania, i would like to remind you that back in may the commission proposed that albania and bosnia could allow their citizens to move around the schengen area with electronic passports. however, the proposal was stopped due to albania's shortcomings in the reintegration of repatriated albanians. i believe that there are security and control issues that weigh heavily on visa liberalisation. you have to think about it very carefully. i need visas, that's what i need!
madam president, commissioner, i would like to thank mr karas for his excellent work. i believe i have witnessed helplessness in the face of this grave global financial economic crisis over the past two years, even though some say it could have been worse. the european union is now at the forefront of this, and you, commissioner, are leading a revolution aimed at stability, which provides the necessary guarantees. in the last plenary session we gave a positive jolt to economic power, to the safety of europe itself. as you said earlier, the proposals on derivatives and short selling have already been prepared, and the taxation of banks and the financial transaction levy are under discussion, pending the commission's final revision proposal. the commissioner must be careful not to go from one extreme to the other, as is so often the case, with rules and laws that could curb or impede economic development and recovery. i think rigidity and red tape are always lurking. it is true that we need stability at the moment, but it is even more true that we need growth, growth and growth, as president barroso has said in this house. basel iii is a step forward which requires responsibility from all of us, but it is necessary to safeguard competitiveness and a level playing field and to pay attention to smes on the one hand and to savings and cooperative banks on the other, which are close to the local area.
member of the commission. - madam president, thank you all for your proposals, your encouragement, your suggestions and your requests, which we have noted with all my team. mr gauzès was the first to raise the question of calibration, as mr schmidt, mr klinz, mr ludvigsson and mr kelly have done. yes, we'll make sure the calibration is correct. there are actually three calibrations that i'm going to be watching very closely: the most intelligent calibration of the basel measures themselves, as we will present them for legislative transposition. i shall use the transitional periods as intelligently as possible and also the flexibility which the basle agreement gives us, and then you will make your own contribution. the second calibration is between the basel measures and all the other measures - i'll come back to that in a moment - that we are putting in place as part of the g20 agenda for crisis prevention and management. finally, the third calibration - which mr kelly has just mentioned in connection with the united states. i am well aware, mr kelly, that the european banking sector finances the economy much more than the united states does, and we will take account of this difference in the transatlantic calibration. we must ensure that this is done, and i say this to mr lamberts, without waiting for the united states. i am going back to the united states to see tim geithner and all the supervisors, and this is not to make a slow race but to be sure that we are moving in parallel on basel ii, basel ii and a half, basel iii, basel iv, and then on crd 4, sorry, basel iii, on another extremely sensitive subject, which can also become a point of divergence between americans and europeans, which is the question of accounting standards. so we are not naive in our relationship with the united states but we are not intent-suiters either. so i can confirm to mr gauzès and all his colleagues that we are taking great care with this triple calibration. mr cancian has just spoken very aptly about financial instability, which is the worst enemy of growth. that is why we must ensure the conditions for greater financial stability, and i would add, in relation to the debate we are having with china at the moment, monetary stability as well. i have often heard mr bullmann encourage us to do good micro- and macro-economic studies. we shall also make the most intelligent use of the transitional losses, which are not indefinite, and mr bullmann, you are right in saying that european law will be made here, at the same time as in the council, and not elsewhere, and not in basle. this is where the european legislator is and it is precisely for this reason that we are going to make a draft with crd 4, which is a draft legislation on which we will need your approval, but even before the debate, and proposals. mrs. bowles, surely you're right to call us in, to say that this can't be business as usual. i am hearing from a number of bankers here and there, who have a short memory, that the crisis is over and that everything can start again in advance. we have no right to a short memory and it will not be business as usual. we're not going to pretend to reform. i would add, madam president, that the better capitalisation we are talking about with basle and crd 4 is not the only tool, the only answer. there are many other answers, which i touched on earlier in my first talk, crisis management. of course, what we're doing on hedge fund regulation, and i hope we'll get to that in the coming days, and private equity what we're doing on derivatives, what we're doing on short selling. there are also other tools that are important. mr ludvigsson spoke about stress tests earlier. you have to do them regularly. that's the spirit we're in. mr lamberts, a word on an important point you have raised, namely the distribution of dividends by banks which would not apply the minimum of capital effort. this problem has been clearly foreseen through one of the cushions, as we say, which is called the capital conservation buffer, which provides that one cannot distribute dividends in a bank if the minimum capital requirements are not met. that is one of the provisions which we will naturally include in our draft legislation. i say to mrs ford that the taxpayers must be protected. that is why you will also be attentive, mrs ford, to the proposals we are going to make in a few days' time on crisis management and prevention, the creation, we hope, in each of the member states of a resolution fund so that banks pay for banks and not taxpayers. mrs lulling asked a very specific question. yes, we have obtained, in the basle negotiations, and my colleagues have been attentive to this, that the cash cushion can be constituted up to 40%, mrs lulling, by the pfandbrief, the letter of guarantee, which you mentioned. this is a good result, i think, and we are all in favour of diversifying liquid assets. mr klinz raised the issue of too big to fail. again, i replied when this concern was expressed in the united states that we could not duplicate, that the american banking system is not the same in its contribution to the economy or in its structure as the european banking system. but this is a question, mr klinz, that has not yet been settled at the global level, nor at the g20 nor at the financial stability board. we are making sure that taxpayers are not asked or can be asked to do so. mr nitras, on the subject of complex financial instruments, we need to have a stronger supervision. that is why esma, the new european authority, will play a major role in the possibility - and this is largely thanks to parliament - of banning certain toxic products and we will, as you will see in the coming days, further strengthen the role of esma. finally, i say to mrs podimata that we will also be taking action in a third stage on credit rating agencies. what we have done so far with you is not enough and i am currently working on this third stage of regulating the rating agencies and diversifying the market for rating agencies which is concentrated in too few hands, to say the least. we asked the ministers at ecofin on friday; your president, mrs. bowles, was there. i'm going to set up a consultation to strengthen this regulation. mr schmidt also mentioned cumulative effects, but i replied by mentioning the triple calibration which we will be very careful about.
in writing. i believe that the recent financial and economic crisis, the biggest recession since the great depression, has highlighted the need for a major overhaul of the current basel ii regulatory framework. i would remind you that the basle ii agreement defines the criteria for access to credit, encouraging banks to assess objectively the creditworthiness of a firm, taking into account the risks associated with their possible insolvency, guarantees and exposure at the time of bankruptcy. these criteria, although aimed at improving the competitiveness of enterprises and strengthening the soundness of the financial system, are excessively punitive towards small and medium-sized enterprises, the engine of the union's economy. in practice, the application of the agreement, because of the lower financial strength of european firms, often results in less access to credit and higher interest rates. while i welcome the efforts made by the basle committee to update the overall regulatory framework, i am deeply concerned about the shortcomings that have emerged in the negotiation process and therefore agree that parliament should be more closely involved in the negotiations in order to make the necessary changes so that european industry and the european economy are not disadvantaged.
in writing. a new stability pact for europe necessarily passes through the banking system, which is the other end of the spectrum of the use of those own resources which are the beating heart of the european economy. in other words, the debt that the member states of the european union accumulate over time to produce national wealth and distribute it to their citizens is financed and managed by the banks, which should then be able to make a profit from it. while it is true that the member states will still need a long time to adjust to the standardisation of their financial laws and to achieve an appropriate level of uniformity within their tax systems, the establishment of adequate liquidity margins and the requirement of reliable leverage effects to guarantee the amount of savings and its development over time is necessary to ensure that a proper response to the crisis can be found in the short term. the own resources which the european union will have increasingly at its disposal will ensure that the management of the union's resources is less and less geared to containing systemic risks and more and more to creating a set of incentives for the benefit of national economies, not only jealously guarded within their own borders but integrated to optimise the use of their comparative advantages.
madam president, i wish to inform this parliament that last sunday, during the pope's visit to palermo, the italian constitution and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union were suspended. freedom of expression and thought and the very inviolability of the private home have been trampled upon. on that occasion, the italian police removed a banner on which the phrase from the gospel was written: "my house is a house of prayer, but you have made it a den of thieves", while the same law enforcement agencies have left behind posters that are homophobic and against couples in a relationship. inside the "altro cuando" bookstore, the owner had displayed a banner with the phrase "i love milingo". the police entered the private premises and seized the banner without any court order and with methods that were not very edifying for the police themselves. it is paradoxical that in a secular and democratic state such as italy should be, the freedom of expression of citizens is suppressed by the authorities in order not to offend the sensitivity of the pope, while the president of the council berlusconi can publicly blaspheme without this representing a problem for the church. once again, democracy in italy is being trampled underfoot by all the secular and religious institutions, increasing the unbridgeable gap that has now been created between institutions and citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr de keyser has said almost everything that needed to be said. i would like to dedicate this minute to a child i met on 1 december 2009 in luanda, when we were in angola for the acp-eu parliamentary assembly. this child was dying, dying of malnutrition in his mother's arms in the divine providence hospital in the center of luanda, near where our works were being held and near the stadium being built for the africa cup of nations, so next to all those splendors. but this was not an isolated case: every day in luanda there are children who are still dying of hunger, of malnutrition, in the arms of young mothers who have not been taught anything about nutrition, who are often left to fend for themselves. for a christian, such spectacles constitute a sin - a serious sin; for a politician they are the emblem of the failure of our policies and for the ruling class of that country, angola, also the sign of greed and an unequal distribution of wealth. i think there is much to be thought about about the reasons why that child had such a short time on earth and i hope that my testimony will contribute to reflection.
we apologize for the slight delay due to traffic. i would advise everyone to walk to parliament for three reasons. the first is that you're on time. the second is that it's good for your health. the third is that it's less polluting. so, everybody in parliament, stand up! the agenda includes the joint debate on the oral question to the commission on eu regional and cohesion policy after 2013, by danuta maria hübner, on behalf of the committee on regional development (o-0110/2010 - b7-0466/2010) and the commission statement on the future of the european social fund.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the future regional cohesion policy must be aligned with the priorities of the eu 2020 strategy, and thus aim at sustainable growth, social inclusion and employment. the regions of europe must be helped to develop effectively by reducing the differences between them and by making the most of the specific features of the most deprived areas, which still face difficulties in territorial development. projects must take into account the less developed regions, which are the most affected by the crisis. new challenges such as demographic pressure in some areas, depopulation in others - particularly in mountain areas - and climate change need to be addressed through concrete action, enhancing local and regional participation. the multi-level approach should stimulate integrated development in disadvantaged areas, involving local and regional authorities and civil society. i would ask the commission to take account of the specific features of each territory, that is to say the territorial dimensions of the different levels of development, and to simplify the procedures for managing and monitoring the projects financed, thus ensuring effective and rapid implementation.
mr president, this resolution is crucial because it addresses the important need for renewal linked to the definition of an anti-crisis strategy for 2020 by identifying a balance between the necessary innovation and the due respect for the fundamental principles of cohesion policy. this is and must remain the cornerstone of european integration, continuing to play the essential role of balancing the differences between the member states and at the same time enhancing regional identities. while maintaining the architecture of cohesion policy and reaffirming the value and relevance of multi-level governance, partnership and the integrated approach as fundamental principles, this resolution affirms the usefulness of combining gdp, which must remain the sole indicator of eligibility, with new and more important indicators for analytical and evaluation purposes only, the need to ensure that the european social fund is governed by new rules, but keeping it within the framework of the general regulation on cohesion policy, and the need for simplification of procedures and the use of financial engineering tools, as also argued by commissioner hahn. i am referring to the speech by commissioner hahn, in particular to the point where he stressed the importance of maintaining the stability pact within the framework of cohesion policy. it is right and proper, but if that is to be the case, the evil pact which provides for the calculation of investment expenditure within the parameters of the stability pact must be abolished or amended, because that would be like asking for the investment expenditure to be raised and at the same time punishing the same expenditure by reducing it. the challenges facing the european union are challenging: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the elderly. these are the objectives of the european strategy for smart, inclusive and sustainable growth. these can only be tackled, as many have said, if the future european financial framework takes account of the importance of regional policy in order to ensure genuine economic, social and territorial cohesion and is able to guarantee adequate appropriations, even with limited resources, by operating a policy for objectives identified on priorities and evaluated by results.
mr president, just a few days ago, here in brussels, the open days took place. many representatives of local authorities and regions discussed how to deal with the serious problems facing our cities, the old and new needs of workers, families, small and large manufacturing firms. the economic crisis that has struck our societies has made it more difficult and more difficult for all of us to give adequate answers to a new and serious social question. in this context, i think everyone has understood that cohesion policy has on many occasions been the only practical instrument available to the territories in order to try to provide answers. we can therefore say that cohesion policy has been an essential lever for the european integration process in recent years - for all regions. we are now redefining this policy for the period after 2013. so we are at a turning point. that is why it is vital to avoid certain risks. the first, and most important, is that of its renationalisation: that would be a serious setback. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (aema) is a step in the right direction. finally, it is essential to simplify procedures for those who have proved efficient and to make it more compelling to punish those who have not. we expect the commission to move in this direction.
mr president, commissioner, there is no doubt that the structural funds have been one of the most effective instruments for shaping european policies and, above all, for ensuring the sustainability of the european economy. for this reason i think it is very important not only to reaffirm them, but to think about their effectiveness by introducing some element of flexibility between funds. i am referring mainly to the social fund, which is now crucial to guaranteeing the quality of future employment in this part of the world. it is important to stimulate recovery and growth, but we must aim at competitive models that combine the quality of what is produced with the quality of how it is produced. the quality of work is very important for people's dignity as well as their earning capacity. i think we need specific rules for the social fund, simple rules. simplicity is not the enemy of effectiveness and quality, and it can certainly not lead to unethical behaviour if the controls are rigorous. i think that simplification should be closely linked to greater control. in this way we will really equip strategy 2020 with tools that have shown their effectiveness but also the need for some updating.
mr president, i would like to express my support for the maintenance of the budgetary and regulatory autonomy of the european social fund, even if it is in the context of greater integration with all the other structural funds. however, the regulation needs to be revised in at least five directions: more simplification and more controls on outcomes and not just procedures; the commission will continue to support the development of the european social model, in particular by providing support for the social partners in the areas of employment, social security, social protection, social security and social protection. to encourage training partnerships between training schools, universities and enterprises to enable places of continuing training which take account of the need for new skills; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the implementation of the programme. i believe that these are some of the lines on which we will have to rethink the prospect of the new social fund regulation.
member of the commission. - mr president, i have to say something. it was indeed a very lively and engaged debate. i would like to thank all of you and remind you again and repeat and confirm: regional policy is an investment policy which must cover all regions, which must be considered in an integrated way, and therefore definitely a priority in relation to cities, but also because it is in cities that various policy areas are concentrated: energy waste, energy avoidance, energy use, transport, social problems - all factors which require a holistic approach. the requests for simplification of the rules are very welcome, but i would also ask you to understand that we must also take into account the needs of the taxpayers, and if today we have spoken several times about simplifying things, then also in such a way that we find uniform rules for different funds as far as possible. i thank you for the debate and the support of parliament, but i would also like to ask you to raise your voice at national level to promote what you have done today so that regional policy will continue to be at the heart of european policy in the future.
member of the commission. − mr president, for me too this has been an extremely useful and helpful discussion about the future of cohesion policy and, within that, the future of the european social fund. i agree with everyone who stressed that this is a crucial financial instrument to support the europe 2020 strategy and its three objectives: it is smart, sustainable and it involves inclusive growth. within inclusive growth we have to support both targets: to increase employment and reduce poverty. the two are interlinked, and we have to make the esf capable of serving a wide range of objectives within a social agenda. it is clear that the discussion identified the major threats to cohesion policy, such as sectoralisation or nationalisation or weakening the overall capacity by reducing the size of the envelope. we have to avoid these trajectories and identify the issues requiring further action. we have to ensure that there is innovation in terms of what the esf funds, and in terms of how the esf is funding these objectives. i am completely open to working with members on particular issues such as simplification, improving evaluation, strengthening conditionality, exploring the opportunities of financial engineering and cooperating with other sources of finance, because the challenges are enormous. we are aware of the absorption problems, especially in greece in a few years, and we are working hard with the services and with the member state authorities to eliminate the obstacle to more rapid disbursement. it is in the common interest of the commission and the member states to make progress on that. but it is very clear and, together with commissioner hahn, i think we all agree that we have to ensure that there is a robust cohesion policy in the future, and my goal is also to ensure that within that there is a strong and visible european social fund.
i have received two motions for resolutions. the commission has also decided to initiate the procedure provided for in article 115 (5) and article 110 (2) of the regulation. the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the rapporteur. - mr president, today's vote does not raise any specific problems and follows the established procedure. the most recent statistical table shows a steady increase in the number of requests from member states for a fund which operates with a different degree of flexibility. the european commission has already shown its confidence in the fund by allocating new resources to the igf budget line. this is a sign of reality, and was confirmed by the committee on budgets this week. so europe's commitment to its citizens has been confirmed by this parliament's willingness to find in the 2011 budget, even with very small margins, room to give substance to this fund.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution, which is certainly significant because it raises the threshold of protection and guarantee against future drilling in all seas, but especially in those which are fragile and in others which have specific features which must be taken into account. it is equally significant that the responsibility and financial capacity of the operators who carry out this lucrative activity has been called to mind, which therefore requires due caution to avoid that what has happened elsewhere, for example in the gulf of mexico, can happen in our seas. environmental protection does not mean denying the right of entrepreneurial initiative, but it does require a cautious approach, as commissioner oettinger has said, in cooperation with other third countries to ensure safety on our seas.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the question of oil exploration in europe is extremely important. that is why i tabled a written question on this subject last july. the serious accident in the gulf of mexico in april is a wake-up call which we cannot afford to underestimate. europe too is in danger of facing similar situations. on 21 may a north sea platform, which produces 200 million tonnes of oil a year, was evacuated because of a serious risk of accident. we must never forget, ladies and gentlemen, that if such a disaster were to occur in a sea as enclosed as the mediterranean, its inestimable wealth of biodiversity would be compromised to unimaginable levels, as my colleague mr iacolino has just pointed out. according to european commission figures, the oil platforms in our seas produced some 200 million tonnes of oil in 2008. these are still too high numbers for an economy that must necessarily move away from fossil fuels. the danish government's commitment to zero dependence on these energy sources by 2050 is in the news these days. this decision will involve many difficult choices, but it must be an important reference for all future environmental policies in the european union.
mr president, i voted against this report and i shall now explain the reasons for my vote. there is no doubt that the initiative has its merits because it expresses great concern for a world, particularly sub-saharan africa, where the right to health is not yet as affirmed as it should be. however, in relation to the more significant issues - which in my view are represented by the protection of mothers and children, i.e. the protection of the pregnant woman and the unborn child - particular emphasis has been placed on aspects relating to reproductive health, with regard to which we have expressed our concerns. i am convinced, however, that in the next activities of parliament there may be a raising of the bar of attention to realities in which infant mortality - i repeat - still has particularly wide and no longer sustainable limits.
in writing. - mr president, the proposal for a regulation, which seeks to ensure that thirdcountry nationals are covered by the same rules on the coordination of social security systems as those applying to european citizens as from the entry into force of regulation (ec) no 883/2004 and its implementing regulation, represents the european union's opportunity to guarantee all citizens a fair level of social protection. it is necessary to stress the importance of ensuring equal treatment in social security benefits for all european and non-european citizens, as a principle contained in the charter of fundamental rights and as a useful tool for completing the process of simplifying the rules in this field. the sharing, maintenance and development of the values on which the eu is founded, such as respect for human rights, must necessarily be accompanied by shared and applied standards in the same way, without reservations or limitations of any kind. i therefore support with pride and conviction our italian position for the adoption of the regulation, which will allow us to arrive at a single system for the application of regulation 883/2004, and i hope that all the other member states will also be able to review their positions and quickly integrate their national legislation with the new rules.
in writing. - in view of the data concerning the activity and mismanagement of the accounts of the european police college, i support the proposal of my colleague mathieu to refuse discharge to its director with regard to the implementation of the academy's budget for the financial year 2008. cepol is, in the magnum opus of the many and sometimes unprofitable community agencies, an important body for the fight against crime and for the maintenance of security and public order. data for 2007 indicate that cepol had an annual budget of eur 7.5 million. it is in the interest of all citizens, especially in a difficult economic and financial situation such as the present one, to be able to rely on efficient community agencies, which know how to use the budget allocated to them in a transparent and responsible manner. the european parliament has an important role to play in monitoring the situation, as in this case, by vetoing the commission's decisions where they are unclear. i shall therefore vote in favour of the rapporteur's proposal.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i and the movement to which i belong are in total disagreement with mrs fajon's proposal to abolish the visa requirement for citizens of bosnia-herzegovina and albania when crossing the external borders of the european union. i think that this is irresponsible and dangerous for the security of the citizens of europe, because it underestimates the problems and political difficulties of these countries, while overestimating the weak and insufficient progress made in recent years. albania has not yet implemented a regulatory system to combat organised crime and the very high levels of corruption. the criminal justice system is facing similar problems in bosnia and herzegovina, where cooperation between the police and the judiciary is very poor. the visa policy allows for some monitoring and selection of those entering from third countries. without the controls provided by this system, we risk facing situations which are dangerous to the safety of our citizens.
in writing. − the european parliament has today given a strong signal of support for the policy of visa-free travel for the western balkan countries, continuing the path taken last year by exempting citizens of serbia, montenegro and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia from the visa requirement. this decision was an important step towards european integration for these countries, which have shown that they can embark on serious reform processes. today's vote on mrs fajon's report has accepted the commission's call to abolish the obligations also for albania and bosnia-herzegovina. i believe that a differentiated approach would have risked accentuating the ethnic and political divisions which characterise the area. the only area not covered by the visa liberalisation process is kosovo, and this is largely due to the problems with the recognition of kosovo's independence, which i hope will be resolved quickly. finally, i would like to point out that the abolition of visas, which is the subject of this report, concerns a crucial aspect of people's lives, which enables them to exercise their right to free movement in practice.
in writing. - the report by mrs fajon on the proposal for a regulation adopting the list of third countries whose nationals must be in possession of a visa when crossing the external borders and the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from that obligation deserves to be assessed positively as it constitutes a proper follow-up to the agreements on the facilitation of visa procedures which the eu concluded in 2007 with albania, bosnia and herzegovina, macedonia, montenegro and serbia. while the need for systematic monitoring to continue after liberalisation is stressed, it is clear that this measure will undoubtedly have an important stabilising function. i also agree with the rapporteur that the direct impact of this phenomenon on the quality of life of citizens will help to encourage state and government institutions and politicians in their efforts to implement the reforms necessary for membership of the european union.
in writing. - i voted against a favourable conclusion of the visa liberalisation process for albania and bosnia and herzegovina. i support the critical position of france, which, at the coreper meeting on 29 september, expressed its regret at the short time elapsed between the commission's proposal and the assessment, and made a parliamentary reservation and asked for more time to evaluate the benchmarks. there are still too many unfinished business to allow the abolition of visas for the citizens of albania and bosnia. these include the fight against corruption and organised crime, the absence of biometric passports and the management of immigration and borders. on this last point, i would remind you that in march belgium repatriated a few hundred ethnic albanian serbs and macedonians who had sought asylum in europe after visa restrictions were lifted in december in serbia, macedonia and montenegro.
in writing. - this report opposes it because it is a risky measure to provide for visa-free travel for albania and bosnia-herzegovina to cross the external borders of the member states. we believe that, especially in albania, where organized crime is deeply rooted, it can spread throughout the rest of the eu. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. - unfortunately, many countries in the world do not respect fundamental human rights, but are instead plagued by crimes against humanity, war, sexual and other forms of violence against children, women and men. in the congo, between july and august, in the mining district of eastern congo alone, more than 500 people, including children, girls and women up to 75 years old, were gang-raped. all this happened near the un camp which not only did not intervene but even pretended not to know what was happening for weeks. to date, some six million people have died as a result of internal strife. i can only express my firm support for this resolution, which sees parliament taking the side of the weakest and most defenceless.
in writing. - mr president, in these weeks the european parliament and the entire international community have been mobilizing in support of sakineh, but also in defence of all the women and men who live in the same conditions in iran as in any other part of the world, where fundamental rights continue to be violated. currently, 154 countries have abolished the death penalty: 96 of them have abolished the death penalty for all crimes, 8 have retained it only for exceptional crimes, such as those committed in wartime, 6 have decreed a moratorium on executions and 44 are de facto abolitionist, i.e. countries that have not executed anyone for at least 10 years or countries that have made a binding commitment not to apply the death penalty. in many countries there is no distinction between convicted persons, and in a small number of countries executions of child offenders continue. all this is in flagrant violation of international law, as enshrined in the international covenant on civil and political rights. i therefore reiterate my opposition to the death penalty in all cases and under all circumstances, and i hope that it will be abolished as soon as possible.
in writing. - many countries in the world still apply the death penalty, including many that have signed trade and economic agreements with europe with so-called human rights clauses. i am thinking of the countries where public executions are carried out by hanging, stoning or other methods which amount to torture. we should be encouraged by the hope that texts such as the one we voted on will serve as a dagger to the whole of europe, which too often forgets its economic and political power and refuses to use it internationally to promote respect for human dignity in third countries.
in writing. - the 10th of october will mark the eighth day against the death penalty. i welcome this resolution by the european parliament as a fitting follow-up to recent resolutions on the death penalty in china, nigeria, north korea and iran. the spread of capital punishment throughout the world is a matter of concern, and it is difficult, especially in the latter countries, where democracy is absent or severely limited, to establish the real figures of this phenomenon. it is important that the european union takes a strong stand on the issue and uses all possible legislative and, in general, political instruments to draw the world's attention to the issue and to denounce violations of international law. for these reasons i shall vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. - the world day against the death penalty, to be held on 10 october, is a further demonstration of europe's leading role in this battle of civilisations. the resolution deserves a favourable vote because it highlights the innumerable problems and aberrations which still exist in 43 countries of the world today. it rightly points out that the struggles so far have produced tangible results, and that the numerous international conventions on the subject have been ratified by an ever-increasing number of countries. this has led to an increased focus on human rights globally. finally, i share the request to the high representative catherine ashton to recall that the underlying political content of the resolution must be the adoption of a global moratorium as a key step towards the abolition of the death penalty;
in writing. the recent disaster in the gulf of mexico, which caused the spill of millions of barrels of oil, has brought the world's attention back to a key issue for the european union. the experience has shown that in offshore oil production, strict measures must be taken to ensure that the environment is adequately protected. however, europe must remain competitive in this sector and continue to explore for gas to diversify its energy needs. i therefore support the adoption of new safety principles and the application of strict and rigorous common standards and the establishment of solidarity funds to compensate victims in the event of any damage. the urgency of these measures is also dictated by the geomorphological nature of some of our seas, such as the mediterranean sea and the current drilling operations on its libyan and egyptian coasts. if oil were to leak, we would be faced with an environmental disaster that would be difficult to repair, with very serious consequences for the economy and the environment of many european countries. finally, i do not support the proposal for a moratorium because i believe that agreements with third countries and their oil companies are more effective. this would make it easier to export safety standards and to invest in prevention and technological research.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that it is essential to examine all aspects of oil extraction and exploration in the european union. i believe that we need to adopt appropriate regulatory measures to prevent the environmental disasters that have recently struck the united states from happening again in our seas. indeed, if such events were to occur in the mediterranean sea, which is notoriously slow to change its water, it would be an environmental disaster with far-reaching consequences. in the light of the analysis of the current european legislation in this field, which appears to be deficient in several respects, action to ensure the highest safety standards becomes essential. that is why i join the call to the commission to follow closely the investigations carried out by the american authorities, so that we can better define and implement actions which have a high level of precaution and ensure the protection of biodiversity in the marine and coastal environment.
in writing. the close connection between oil exploration and extraction activities and past and future environmental changes is proven and is the subject of constant scientific research. to show in time what will happen in 2080 as a result of these activities can only serve as a warning to stop the timer of environmental disasters around the world, no one excluded, not even us. there is no doubt that there are responsibilities for deep-sea drilling that until recently would have been unheard of, but the threat of disasters like the one in the gulf of mexico cannot leave us indifferent. it is now essential that the european union reinforces and harmonises safety standards for oil exploration and extraction activities in all 27 member states, not only for existing platforms but also for those which will be decommissioned. secondly, to identify and regulate the responsibilities of operators, starting with the exclusion of the possibility of renting out facilities to third parties. i therefore agree with the rapporteur and i hope that the commission and the council will take direct action to bring clarity, transparency, uniformity and therefore security to our territory and to this specific issue on which we, dear colleagues, must never lose sight.
in writing. the commission is also proposing that the eu should take a more active role in the fight against pollution and that the eu should be able to take action to combat it. i would have preferred the environment committee to go further and ask for similar guarantees from other non-member european states such as norway, whose gdp is 90% linked to the extraction of oil from the sea. the eu is a world economic power and must be able to demand that non-member countries also respect the protection of activities on the dangerous seabed, for which it is the main partner.
in writing. − the vote in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the eu strategic objectives for the 10th meeting of the conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity (cbd) to be held in nagoya, japan, from 18 to 29 october 2010 is mainly due to the need to arrive at this important meeting with a common european position that is as broadly shared as possible by the other participating countries. only with clear ideas about objectives and proposals will our role be truly decisive for the global agreements that will be reached. in particular, the resolution rightly emphasises the need for urgent action to meet the objective of achieving a more substantial reduction in biodiversity loss, through the use of already available resources.
in writing. - i congratulate the rapporteur and mr karas on the excellent work they have done in drawing up a valuable own-initiative report on the basel ii reform to strengthen the banking system in the light of the financial crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. compared to the american system, the european system is financed mainly by bank loans, but the financial crisis of recent years in europe and the consequent lack of liquidity have generated a drastic reduction in credit for smes, the backbone of our economy. i voted in favour of this document because i believe that in the basel ii amendment negotiations the eu must strive to achieve a level playing field with america on accounting standards; equal obligations between commercial and investment banks; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. to cope with future periods of stress we must equip ourselves now with more and better capital and liquidity. at the same time, countercyclical measures and economic provisions should be implemented.
in writing. the vote in favour of the karas report was due to the timeliness with which the honourable member highlighted the progress made by the capital requirements directive, but also the critical points which are pushing us to reform it in a short time. i agree first of all with the need to ensure that the european parliament plays an active and, above all, 'early' role in the negotiations, in order to ensure a kind of 'democratic control' in order to adopt measures which correspond as closely as possible to the needs of all the productive sectors. we must do everything possible to ensure that the end users of financial services are protected, and to do this the new agreement must provide for a system which does not force banks to pass on the costs of the transaction to them.
in writing. - i supported the report on health systems in sub-saharan africa and global health because i believe that the defence of the right to health as a fundamental human right is paramount. it is sadly known that the life expectancy of an african is at least 30 years less than that of a european, and this difference alone seriously tests the solidarity model between north and south. it is also known that the majority of the population in sub-saharan africa, particularly those in rural areas, are unable to meet the cost of medicines. the report voted on in parliament today calls for the establishment of sustainable health systems, to be financed both through state resources and through international solidarity. the european union can play an important role in this context by taking appropriate action to lay the foundations for a transparent financing system based on health indicators reflecting the real needs of the population. i also believe that it is necessary to carry out programmes to raise public awareness of the prevention and early detection of diseases and i would like to stress the important role that local authorities must play in this respect.
in writing. - nearly 10 million children die every year before they reach the age of five, and 4 million of these are babies less than a month old. almost all of the world's infant mortality is concentrated in poor countries, mainly in sub-saharan africa. even today, worldwide, one woman dies every minute from complications related to pregnancy or childbirth. the main causes are bleeding, infections and hypertensive attacks. statistics from the world health organization show that the risk of a woman in a developing country dying from pregnancy is 36 times greater than that of a woman living in a developed country. in recent years, the number of deaths has decreased by 34%, but this is less than half of what would be needed to achieve the 5th millennium development goal. more efforts must be made to help those most at risk, namely women living in rural areas and the poorest families, ethnic minorities and indigenous groups, people in conflict areas. greater investment in health systems to achieve better quality care that is finally accessible to all.
in writing. − following the launch of the europe 2020 strategy in the council and the adoption by the european parliament's committee on regional development of a document on future cohesion policy, a report aimed at re-launching the central role of cohesion policy is timely and appropriate. it is right to stress the importance of the territorial dimension after the introduction of the new treaty on the further development of economic and social cohesion, and to recall the key principles of the implementation of cohesion: the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the following: for all these reasons i shall vote in favour of the report.
in writing. the objective of economic, social and territorial cohesion between the levels of development of the regions of the union is important. a favourable environment must be created by adopting a 2020 strategy for stable economic growth and job creation. the resolution also calls for rural development to be coordinated with cohesion policy development objectives, leaving it to the regions to adopt measures which meet their own territorial needs. unfortunately, in europe after the crisis, many rural areas have become even more marginalised and consequently abandoned by the population. this situation leads to land degradation which has a negative impact on the hydrogeological balance. the eu must give the regions the opportunity to intervene with targeted contributions to help repopulate areas in demographic decline, only then can we guarantee new jobs and an improvement in the layout of the territory.
in writing. the future of the european social fund will obviously depend not only on the approach taken by european decision-makers to the future of the continent, but also on how they have learned from the experience of the past. the past tells us today more clearly than ever that the model hitherto applied by the community institutions in the field of employment, training and employment is no longer suited to the needs of the present economic system. the eu 2020 strategy itself, and with it its main instrument, the social fund, will have to take account of the fact that the only employment and training policies that can make the effects of the disbursement of european funds lasting are those policies that necessarily aim to meet the needs of the territories and to strengthen and support small and medium-sized enterprises as the backbone of the european economic system. in the future, the social fund, as well as the eu2020 strategy as a whole, will have to focus much more than it has done so far on the local dimension and the horizon of the productive realities that make up 99% of the european economic fabric. in the expectation of a change in the community's perspective on these vital matters, i shall vote in favour of the resolution.
in writing. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the future of the european social fund. the european social fund, as it is known, plays a key role in supporting the europe 2020 strategy, whose main objective is to achieve inclusive growth, poverty reduction, increased employment and higher education levels with the ultimate aim of creating new and better jobs. the fund's importance as a political instrument and its dual value in supporting both employment and cohesion policies and the concrete and harmonious development of the territories are thus clearly understood. this last and final aspect is of particular importance, since europe cannot be said to be truly realised, cohesive and united unless all the communities which make it up are really developed and have reached a stable and as uniform as possible level of growth. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the financing of the common agricultural policy is a very good one.
in writing. the resolution is extremely important as it focuses on the key role of the european social fund in improving employment and the quality of work. it is believed that great importance is attached to education and vocational training systems, decent work, equality between men and women and the inclusion in the world of work of those who today have difficulty in accessing it. unfortunately, the crisis has led to greater difficulties in the integration of young people into the labour market and the loss of jobs for the elderly. it is important to strengthen the potential of the structural funds in order to support those who may be excluded, optimising the outcomes of social policies and generating sustainable growth for the benefit of all.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, lady ashton, on the financial regulation applicable to the european external action service, or on the basic principles and rules governing the community budget of the new diplomatic service created by the treaty of lisbon and which will include officials from the council, the commission and the national diplomatic services, with the task of representing the european union in all foreign policy matters, i think that a very good job has been done. the service, as originally structured, however, presented a number of dangers which were attributable to its decentralised and complex structure, with branches all over the world. in particular, the responsibility of financial actors managing budgets of hundreds of millions of euros was unclear and risked contributing to the increase in fraud and corruption affecting the community budget. although the treaty of lisbon greatly extends the powers of the european parliament and identifies it as the only institution representing the european citizens, the debate on the establishment of the new external action service was initially monopolized by the commission and the council, which tried in every way to structure it according to an intergovernmental logic and contrary to the community method. after lengthy consultations with the belgian presidency and the european commission, an agreement was reached which, despite the initial approach, sees the role of parliament strengthened and rightly put it at the centre of the european debate. the main points are: the commission will provide, in a working document attached to the draft budget, a comprehensive presentation including all operational administrative expenditure relating to the union's external action, including the common foreign and security policy and the european security and defence policy; article 1, which lists all the institutions of the european union, the responsibility reports are annexed to the annual activity reports of the director-general of the commission; the presence of the head of delegation at meetings of the relevant parliamentary committees accompanied by the director-general; the presence of a common auditor and accountant for the office and the european commission, with an audit clause in 2013; the commitment of the member states to fully support the union in pursuing all responsibilities of temporary staff of the european external action service. we must then discuss some important matters which will be taken up again when the financial regulation is revised every three years. these are the discharge to the institutions and the integration of the european social fund into the general budget. the negotiations have been a success, especially for parliament, whose central role has been highly valued. the fact that we have listed all the institutions which means that discharge for the other institutions is only a matter of time and the fact that we have a single auditor and accountant for both institutions is a good thing. i thank you all for your work.
the rapporteur. - mr president, lady ashton, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, parliament approves the establishment of a new section of the budget devoted to the eeas and the allocation of additional resources for staff. this position is dictated by the desire to allow the creation of the office, which europe needs and urgently needs, but it does not of course imply a renunciation of the role of the budgetary authority in the debate on the nature of the structure that will deal with crisis management and the priorities of staff policy, as demonstrated by the reservation we established in the 2011 budget. the regulations we are going to adopt reinforce the results of the madrid agreement, in some cases by making further progress, for which i would like to thank my colleagues rapkay, grässle and rivellini. i also thank them for their availability and openness to the debate between catherine ashton and paul christophersen. the staff regulations ensure that all officials of the office have the same rights and duties, regardless of their origin, and commit the high representative to ensuring geographical and gender balance. this is a binding wording, which parliament will ensure is respected, and which at the same time avoids the use of quotas which would be inapplicable and wrong. the financial regulation ensures a sound system of controls and brings the office closer to the commission. let me say with satisfaction that the success of the establishment of specific budget lines for the main csdp missions is a major step forward in parliament's ability to exercise control over the common foreign and security policy. the vote tomorrow will therefore result in a stronger, more community-wide external action service, subject to greater parliamentary scrutiny. we will exercise this scrutiny rigorously and demandingly, but with responsibility and a constructive spirit, determined to help the high representative in his titanic effort to equip europe with a genuine foreign policy in the service of its values and interests.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in defining the structure of the new diplomatic service, we must not repeat the mistakes of the past but aim at a lean, inexpensive and above all efficient staff. an instrument of european policy - i repeat, european - must not select its officials on the basis of their geographical origin or gender but on the basis of their quality. i agree that the member states should be represented in the new service and that a large female component would be appropriate. but this cannot be done at the expense of the criteria of merit and professional excellence. what we must do instead is to ensure a rigorous and equal access to careers for all, without discrimination. for training, there are structures, such as the european university institute in florence, which have the expertise to ensure excellent training. it seems to me therefore inappropriate and costly to think of building a european diplomatic academy from scratch.
mr president, after the adoption of the council decision on the organisation and functioning of the european external action service, we are called upon today to put that same determination into practice by amending the financial regulation and the staff regulations of officials of the union. i would like to draw attention to one aspect of the report which has involved difficult negotiations: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. some of my colleagues would have preferred different criteria for the selection of officials, based on origin and nationality. these proposals were avoided by balanced compromise amendments which took account of the geographical and gender balance without imposing selective criteria on a national basis. the choice of quotas on a national basis would not have been a suitable and desirable solution. after more than 50 years of european integration, the first real diplomatic corps of the union is now being created, a diplomatic corps which must be able to develop a common foreign policy and serve the union's interests on an international scale. in order to fulfil this task, it is essential that officials represent the union and not the member states of which they are nationals or have been diplomatic officials. that is the line taken yesterday in the legal affairs committee in adopting the rapkay report and it is the line i hope will continue to be followed in the vote in plenary.
high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy/vice-president of the commission. − madam president, very briefly from the other side of the chamber – and i hope i have sat for the right number of minutes – i would again like to thank the honourable members very much for a debate which i have listened to with great interest. i take away with me the strength of feeling on geographical and gender balance within the context of a service that is truly european, appointed on merit. i take away with me the need for people to see our working crisis management enhanced and to see it properly reflected in the european service. i take away with me what i have described as a ‘silver thread’ of human rights that must run through everything that we do in the service; and i take away, again, the reminder of the economic backdrop against which i am pulling this service together, and the desire that honourable members have to see an efficient service that uses resources properly and effectively. most of all, after what has been a long journey of many months, i take away the desire of this house to see the service come into being, to reflect the needs of the constituents you represent and to be a service that will serve them well. it is my promise to you to try and reflect that in everything that the service does.
member of the commission. − madam president, i shall give a short reaction to ms andreasen – who is already absent – on the principle of budget neutrality. it is our hope that the principle should establish itself in the longer run, with savings in the national diplomatic services, in the commission and in the council, and with the same internal auditor and accounting officer for the commission and for the external action service. it is a good solution for the time being, to be revised by 2013, and the financial regulation does not prejudge the revision. in the hope of a good positive vote tomorrow, i will abstain from further comment.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i too would like to thank the honourable members for their support and for the very positive atmosphere in this debate, and it is also very important to thank the council for their important input into the whole exercise. i think that this positive atmosphere has brought us very close to the historic decision of tomorrow. so, let me once again express my gratitude to parliament’s rapporteurs and representatives because they made the positive atmosphere here this morning possible. i would like to use this opportunity to wish cathy and her new service luck and success and to wish all of us a strong, coherent and coordinated eu foreign policy because i am sure that, with cathy and the eeas, the eu will further increase its influence on global affairs. in conclusion, let me reiterate that the commission is ready for close cooperation from the start and for the best of synergies that our institutions and member states can achieve together.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the genuine satisfaction that has emerged from this debate reflects, i believe, the awareness of the difficult but important task we faced, because unifying functions linked to different policies, subject to different decision-making procedures, in order to strengthen the coherence of the eu's external action, without endangering the community character of certain policies but by enhancing the contribution of structures operating in the field of the common security and defence policy, was not simply a matter of european law, of administrative science, a test of the balance of power between the institutions, but a fundamental condition for the high representative to have an instrument capable of enhancing europe's potential on the world stage, of exerting its civil power, of enabling us to have a greater impact in the middle east or in the horn of africa, such as in the balkans. i think that this challenge has been met with great success and we are therefore rightly pleased and i believe that the high representative will have the support of this parliament in carrying out his task.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the figures on world poverty are alarming, disheartening and pitiful. the number of people living below the poverty line is growing, as is the gap between those who live in poverty and those who enjoy a high standard of living. according to the latest un report on the state of the world's cities, 827 million people live in slums today, and their number will continue to grow by an average of 6 million a year. as has been said, europe is no stranger to this phenomenon: today, almost 80 million citizens live in poverty - 16 per cent of the community's population - and 19 million of them are children. 2010 has been declared the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion, and this is the context in which the report under discussion today is being put. i have endeavoured to ensure that the final text analyses certain aspects which i consider to be of primary importance, and i thank mr figueiredo for this. the recent economic crisis has led to an increase in the unemployment rate. unfortunately, once again, it was the women who suffered the worst blow. the fight against poverty is primarily achieved through employment policies, with particular attention to women and young people. every individual must be able to benefit from resources that guarantee a decent standard of living. it 's true . the minimum income can play an important role in the fight against poverty by offering everyone the opportunity to participate actively in social, cultural and political life. but its adoption must be a free choice of each member state and not a decision at community level. to achieve genuine and fair social integration and to combat situations of degradation and poverty, we must not resort to mere welfare measures: the commission has already made a number of proposals. let us therefore work for better structural reforms and for more effective employment policies to promote the integration of the weakest members of society into the labour market.
thank you, mr kamiński, as you have seen, the house has expressed its solidarity with the victims of this absolutely unacceptable act.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for details of the vote: see minutes)
i declare the voting closed.
madam president, i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the rapporteur that the system of control and enforcement adopted by the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries must be rapidly transposed into community law. i am referring in particular to those new provisions which, specifically, introduce a new system of port state control, allowing european ports to be closed to landings and transhipments of frozen fish whose legality has not been verified by the state concerned. i am convinced, however, that when these amendments are transposed it will be important to consider some compromise solutions, and that it will be essential to make any adjustments that are deemed feasible within the framework of the treaty itself.
madam president, the current economic and financial crisis has increased the problem of women workers who are often forced to combine work and family commitments, and who find themselves in a weaker contractual position, which often leads to worse working conditions. i voted in favour of this report because i share the need to combat this phenomenon by urging the member states and the social partners to bring the legislative and contractual rules on standard and atypical work substantially into line, without underestimating the high risk of a possible increase in the use of underground work. we therefore call on the european commission and all member states to develop new and concrete strategies on precarious work, which take account of the principle of gender balance. the report also calls on the commission to submit a proposal on the application of the principle of equal pay for men and women. we remind member states to transpose directive 2006/54/ec without delay. we therefore call on the member states to facilitate the development of childcare networks and the implementation of all measures aimed at enabling women who choose to work full-time, improving their participation in the labour market and their economic independence.
madam president, the vote by a very large majority is an important sign of parliament's attention to the problem of women in precarious employment. in europe, women still bear the brunt of the burden of unemployment: the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the former yugoslavia. the european union has always demonstrated its commitment to gender policies through specific legislation transposed by the member states and must continue to work towards genuine equality of access to employment. the own-initiative report is a clear signal to the european commission and the member states to overcome precarious work and increase social protection for women in precarious work. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr thomsen, on his report.
madam president, this is an important and significant report for the protection of women. however, the european institutions have the not inconsiderable defect of preaching well and raiding badly. last friday and saturday, a meeting attended by the president of the european commission, mr barroso, the president of the european parliament and mr van rompuy took place with dignitaries from the most important european masonic orders; well, not a word has been said about the fact that most of these obediences do not allow women to enroll. what is worse, the meeting took place inside the european parliament, behind closed doors, and not even officials of the european parliament were allowed in. this is contrary to the principles of transparency which should govern all the activities of the european institutions.
in writing. - madam president, i am voting in favour of mr simpson's report because i think it is very useful to have statistics on the transport of goods and passengers by sea. indeed, the collection of data by type of goods is already mandatory for european statistics on road, rail and inland waterway transport. as the dossier clearly shows, 'the availability of comprehensive and homogeneous statistics for all modes of transport by type of goods would make it possible to define a general framework useful for supporting and monitoring the policy of promoting co-modality, that is, the possibility of combining in an optimal way various modes of transport within the same transport chain, and the modernisation of the logistics of freight transport'.
in writing. − although the single market has been defined as completed for some time, the persistent differences between the various points of access for goods and people continue to reveal the national character of borders. although the member states have decided to step back in this area in favour of the eu institutions, these differences cannot continue to exist, penalizing some areas and favouring others. this further step towards harmonising the treatment of persons and goods is another step towards the full integration of the european single market.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the simpson report because by amending directive 2009/42/ec the relevant legislation on the collection of data on the carriage of goods and passengers to and from europe is being definitively completed. the collection of data, which was previously compulsory only for road, rail and inland waterway transport, will now also be compulsory for sea transport, with the amendment of the directive, providing a whole range of data on goods entering and leaving our borders. fundamental data not only at the statistical level. the implementation of the amendment of the directive will also provide data on sea transport from next year, giving greater transparency on the types of goods transported and improving the efficiency of transport of specific goods, as it will be possible to draw out the most efficient modes of transport for each type of goods by comparison.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for denmark because i believe that this instrument is a valuable resource to support workers in difficulty because of the economic crisis. the fund was set up in 2006 to provide concrete support to workers made redundant as a result of the relocation of their businesses or, following the derogation introduced in 2009, also as a result of the economic crisis, in order to reintegrate them into the labour market. today's vote was on a request for support for 1122 workers in 45 machinery-manufacturing enterprises in the north jutland region for an amount of eur 7.521.359 financed by the egf. i would like to conclude by welcoming the adoption of the report, which shows that the egf is a useful and effective resource in the fight against unemployment as a consequence of globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. - madam president, as i had the opportunity to say last march, when voting on mr böge's report, the use of the globalisation adjustment fund as a useful instrument to deal with the consequences of the economic and financial crisis is a very good initiative, which gives a concrete response in terms of financial aid. since then, several other requests, including this one, have been accepted and i believe that this is the best demonstration of the usefulness of this initiative.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for the netherlands because i believe that this instrument is a valuable resource for supporting workers in difficulty because of the economic crisis. the fund was set up in 2006 to provide concrete support to workers made redundant as a result of the relocation of their businesses or, following the derogation introduced in 2009, also as a result of the economic crisis, in order to reintegrate them into the labour market. today's vote was on a request for support for 1590 workers of nxl semiconductors netherlands, operating in the electronics sector in the gelderland and eindhovendei regions, for an amount of eur 1 809 434 financed by the egf. i would like to conclude by welcoming the adoption of the report, which shows that the egf is a useful and effective resource in the fight against unemployment as a consequence of globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for portugal because i believe that this instrument is a valuable resource to support workers in difficulty because of the economic crisis. the fund was set up in 2006 to provide concrete support to workers made redundant as a result of the relocation of their businesses or, following the derogation introduced in 2009, also as a result of the economic crisis, in order to reintegrate them into the labour market. today's vote was on a request for support for 839 workers in qimonda portugal s.a. in the electronics sector for an amount of eur 2 405 671 financed by the egf. i would like to conclude by welcoming the adoption of the report, which shows that the egf is a useful and effective resource in the fight against unemployment as a consequence of globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for spain because i believe that this instrument is a valuable resource for supporting workers in difficulty because of the economic crisis. the fund was set up in 2006 to provide concrete support to workers made redundant as a result of the relocation of their businesses or, following the derogation introduced in 2009, also as a result of the economic crisis, in order to reintegrate them into the labour market. the report voted on today concerned a request for financing from spain for 1429 workers in 23 different companies in the automotive sector, for an amount of eur 2 752 935. finally, i would like to stress that today's vote on the four reports, concerning the mobilisation of the egf for a total funding of some eur 14 million, shows that the fund is a useful and effective resource in the fight against unemployment as a consequence of globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. - i congratulate mrs matera on her excellent work. today i voted in favour of the four requests for funds for workers who have lost their jobs in spain, denmark, the netherlands and portugal. the egf was set up in 2006 with a ceiling of eur 500 million to promote job search, to finance specific training courses, to help workers start their own business, for 'temporary' income supplements in the form of incentives for mobility, job search, training or reintegration into the labour market. the egf is showing a good degree of flexibility, providing assistance in specific cases in many european regions. but we must do everything we can to speed up the mobilisation of this instrument, particularly in view of its positive role in dealing with the economic crisis.
in writing. - i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur. i voted in favour of this document because i share the need to incorporate into european union law the control and enforcement regime adopted by the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries. i welcome in general the new regulations, contained in the text just voted, on the control of vessels engaged in illegal and unreported fishing. i also support the new port state control system which will allow european ports to be closed to landings of frozen fish whose legality has not been verified by the flag state of the foreign vessel. however, i believe that when transposing it it will be necessary to evaluate some compromise solutions and make any adjustments as long as they are considered feasible within the framework of the treaty itself. finally, i am convinced that a more rapid and effective transposition can be achieved by ensuring that the european parliament is kept informed at all stages of the negotiation procedure and by ensuring that observers from this house take part in the negotiations.
in writing. - it is methodologically correct to review and update the content of the conventions, as was done on this occasion. at the same time, however, it is appropriate to raise doubts about the role of parliament in this revision. beyond formal issues, the functioning of the apparatus linked to the european institutions must be continuously monitored to verify its effectiveness, efficiency, degree of updating and ability to respond to challenges that may have changed since the signing of the relevant agreement.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation establishing a control and enforcement framework applicable in the area of the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries, to which the european union is a contracting party, because i believe that it is necessary to transpose this regime into eu law. in 2006, neafc adopted a new regime to improve the monitoring and implementation of its recommendations, and both the eu and the european parliament subsequently expressed their full support for the adoption of the recommendations. in particular, strong support was given to the new provisions for a system of control by the port state, which allows european ports to be closed to landings and transhipments of frozen fish whose legality has not been verified by the authorities of the same state. finally, these are a series of recommendations which adapt the existing system to the present needs and which i therefore believe should be transposed quickly.
in writing. - we are in favour of this text because, despite the fact that europe has restricted or even banned fishing for several species of fish, there is a large presence of illegal fishing vessels that not only fish for protected fish but also do not comply with the community directives on the protection of workers. the new recommendations, which came into force between 2007 and 2010, become law with the adoption of this text and their transposition becomes an important tool both in the fight against illegal fishing and in avoiding legal loopholes for the union fleets. the introduction of a new control system, which allows european ports to be closed to the landing of frozen fish of dubious or illegal origin, is also welcome.
in writing. − this proposal updates the eu rules implementing the control and enforcement regime adopted by the commission for fisheries in the northwest atlantic a new procedure is adopted with the aim of improving the monitoring and implementation of fisheries recommendations and, above all, promoting compliance by non-contracting parties' vessels. in addition, a new port state control system is introduced, allowing european ports to be closed to landings of frozen fish whose legality has not been verified by the flag state of the foreign vessel. new measures are introduced to control vessels engaged in illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. my vote in favour is mainly motivated by the need to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the walesa report amends the 1978 nafo (north-west atlantic fisheries organisation) convention and represents a step forward for cooperation and the management of fishery resources in the north-west atlantic. i voted in favour of amending the convention because scientific research improves international cooperation in the exploitation of the marine resources of that area. the adoption of the amendment also signals the new role of parliament after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, as it underlines the need to speed up work on the adoption and modernisation of the conventions.
in writing. - i congratulate mr wałęsa on his excellent work and would like to recall and highlight the fact that the treaty of lisbon entered into force in december 2009. in the context of the newly acquired powers of the committee on fisheries, the european parliament should be adequately represented in the forthcoming negotiations on future international conventions. in 2007 and 2008, the european parliament was not represented at the nafo annual meetings. the institution has given its approval within the limits of its powers but at the same time wishes to remind the council and the commission of the new procedural requirements and the need to respect the new powers of the european parliament.
in writing. - we support the recommendation which entails a comprehensive revision of the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the northwest atlantic fisheries, as it includes modern fisheries management concepts. the new rules simplify matters, but also clearly define the responsibilities of flag states and port states.
in writing. - madam president, the europe 2020 strategy proposes to raise the employment rate of people aged 20-64 to 75% and to reduce the number of people at risk of poverty. to achieve these objectives, action should also be taken on all forms of precarious employment which include unwritten employment contracts, working hours of less than 10 hours per week and short-term fixed-term contracts. this is not to mention jobs where the minimum health and safety requirements are ignored, resulting in a high rate of accidents and a greater risk of exposure to diseases and various hazards. these forms of contract, as well as all the risks attached to them, are often aimed at women, penalized on the basis of their sex, age, having a family or being immigrants. the european union should take legislative action to ensure gender equality and reduce gender segregation in the labour market. the member states should in turn increase checks in order to reduce the number of abuses against women, combat undeclared work and take deterrent action against employers.
in writing. - i congratulate the rapporteur on drawing attention to an aspect of the world of work which still causes too many gender differences. the economic and financial crisis has undoubtedly worsened the situation of precarious workers, especially women, who bear the brunt of the burden of precariousness. this is confirmed by recent figures, which show that in 55% of firms only women have a parttime contract. it is also estimated that 31.5% of women have part-time work compared to 8.3% of men and that precarious work leads to a higher rate of accidents and a higher risk of illness and exposure to risks. in short, a situation of inequality which the european union cannot ignore. i voted in favour because i share the need to combat this phenomenon and to urge the member states and the social partners to bring legislation and contractual rules into substantial alignment. i also hope that the commission and the member states will carry out more checks on the minimum health and safety requirements at the workplace. there is still a lot to be done to ensure women's fair access to the world of work.
in writing. - within the european union, a purely descriptive term such as 'precarious workers' still contains two forms of discrimination, both very serious. the first concerns the problem of women's work, which was also tackled in this session from a modern and sustainable perspective in another dossier. the second concerns the dualism in the labour market of many member states between workers enjoying rights and protections on the one hand and workers who are at the mercy of phenomena usually beyond their control on the other. objectively looking at the data, it seems increasingly clear that in the future, wage labour will also involve greater risk taking than has been the case so far. however, this development must be managed to avoid speculation to the detriment of the weaker parties to the contract, and in particular those who are in a disadvantaged situation. the european institutions have a duty to avoid discrimination and to allow everyone to pursue his or her professional goals freely, in accordance with his or her abilities, attitudes and inclinations. the committee takes this opportunity to recall that further research on the precarious position of women would be useful in planning interventions aimed at removing obstacles without being too invasive.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mrs thomsen's report because i believe that a review of the legislation on the working conditions of women in precarious employment is now necessary. in most countries the situation has changed, and until recently women were much more likely to be in precarious employment. it is often the case that these women have less opportunity to be informed about their rights and are more exposed to the risk of being deprived of legal protection and being unfairly dismissed without any possibility of appeal. this situation must certainly be brought to an end with respect for the equal dignity of all workers. equal access to training and vocational retraining opportunities for men and women must therefore be guaranteed, but especially for women who need more protection in the maternity and breastfeeding stages and in the often critical stage of re-entry into the world of work.
in writing. − the current economic and financial crisis has affected businesses which have responded by reducing temporary employment, such as workers on fixed-term contracts, and have taken on staff or employees on other types of non-permanent contracts. i would have supported the resolution if it had not provided for the encouragement of employers to take specific measures for the integration of migrant women. i find this discriminatory towards our female workers. it is for this very reason that i voted against the resolution.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mrs thomsen's report. i believe that in a time of negative economic conditions such as the one we are experiencing, there are certain groups of workers who pay the highest price. the precarious workers are facing this crisis without the safeguards that other workers enjoy. the position of women in this category is even more critical. the problem of unemployment is spreading to women, especially in the service sector and agriculture, and urgent and effective measures are needed to change this situation. there are various reasons for this. the employment and income gap between men and women is still too wide to say that equality has been achieved, which is why some effective measures, such as maternity leave, health care and old age pensions, would be effective in curbing the advance of the precariat. however, the starting point for overcoming this employment gap is certainly the education and training of young women. finally, more in-depth research into the causes, reasons and costs of unemployment needs to be promoted.
in writing. - i congratulate mrs thomsen on her excellent work. too often women have to accept undignified working conditions. the situation of pregnant and breastfeeding workers must therefore be monitored in particular. women returning from maternity leave must be guaranteed the opportunity to return to the labour market. member states are also encouraged to monitor any harmful behaviour by employers towards female workers. any abuse must be prosecuted as soon as possible. in addition, a new employment strategy at european level will be needed to ensure that women in precarious employment are included in social security and occupational protection schemes.
in writing. - women are particularly affected by the economic crisis, as they are a more sensitive group, since their activities are not normally confined to the world of work but also to the home and family. most of the precarious work is done by women, who therefore find themselves without job security, with low pay values, less social protection and less qualification. in these conditions, when periods of absence from work due to illness or maternity are imminent, women may find themselves without a job when they return to work. our delegation is very sensitive to these problems and i would add to the very similar problems of women who are not employed but are selfemployed. unfortunately, this text, which could be fully supported, is aimed at promoting integration policies for women workers from outside the community to the detriment of those who are european citizens. that is why we are voting against.
madam president, mr council representative, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to thank my colleague, mrs sidonia elżbieta jdrzejewska, and the other members for the excellent work they have done in recent months, which has led to the establishment of the position on the 2011 budget, first by the committee and then by parliament. in my view, the starting point on which european budgetary action should be based is the concept of european added value, according to which - as is well known - european spending must generate clear and visible benefits for the union and its citizens. it is in this context that it should be stressed that the introduction of new policies and the strengthening of the union's already recognised powers, such as the results of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, have made the need for an adequate budget more evident than ever. i therefore believe that the european budget must be kept at a size which is suitable for achieving results which cannot be achieved by any other expenditure at national or local level. this is particularly true at a time of crisis such as the present, when the member states are engaged in the difficult task of controlling expenditure and balancing their budgets, and when the committee on budgets has given full proof of a careful and responsible policy by respecting the limits of the multiannual financial framework for the first time in 20 years. the european parliament decided to align itself in many respects with the commission's initial position, and also provided for some increases to finance its priorities proposed since march 2010 such as youth, mobility, research and innovation. the council's proposed cuts, often indiscriminate, and in key budget lines, such as clearance of accounts, were therefore eliminated, making it clear that there were no clear and reasoned policy choices behind the proposal. i also believe that the cap budget should be maintained at its current level, especially in view of the forthcoming revision of the common agricultural policy after 2013, which will require an appropriate level of funding and therefore in line with the current budget.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the outcome of this budgetary procedure is of great importance, not only because it is the first budget of lisbon, with a new procedure and new tasks for the eu, but also because it comes at a crucial moment for the future of europe, which is in a state of serious crisis. many governments, faced with the crisis, are thinking of a model of economic governance based entirely on stability mechanisms, and therefore on cuts, in national budgets and perhaps even in the european budget. we believe, on the contrary, that a stronger european budget, backed by own resources and also by a financial transaction tax, is a prerequisite for effective european economic governance and for greater rigour at the level of national budgets. we must therefore decide which way to go, and that is why the amendments which the council representative has found inappropriate are of great importance. but of course the bigger game is played on numbers: i would urge the council to take a decision on this, because it cannot demand strict respect for the margins and at the same time expect parliament not to give priority to its own priorities. the treaty of lisbon is clear: the council has primacy over the amount of spending, parliament has the final say over the quality of spending. i am thinking of heading 4, we are not against an increase in resources for the cfsp or for the ici+, but we do not want this to be at the expense of our priorities, first of all palestine and development cooperation. the council therefore has three options: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, parliament is about to vote on the first budget of the lisbon era. this powerful instrument which the treaty puts at our disposal is at odds with the worst economic situation the european continent has experienced since 1929. we must ensure that this serious economic crisis does not turn into an even more serious political crisis. if the trilogue fails and the 2011 budget becomes twelve-tenths of the 2010 budget, the distribution and operation of the structural funds would be very difficult, as would the european external action service, which might not even be able to start. all of this should make us think. we welcome the important work of the rapporteur, mrs jędrzejewska, whom we thank also for her efforts to focus the resources of the european union on young people, research and innovation. but we must never forget how important it is that we, as the first, set an example of sound and moderate management of our finances, avoiding as much waste as possible and perhaps even structural duplication, which our citizens would not understand and which would certainly not be to the advantage of the future of europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i should like to thank the commissioner for the document: this time we are talking about something written on paper and not about words that have been spoken on several occasions but which have not yet been translated into a concrete document. but as always when examining a document for a first evaluation, both positive and negative aspects are noted. i therefore see the glass as half full, because we are talking about own resources, a subject which this parliament has been waiting for a long time to be dealt with in order to reduce the contribution from the member states and increase the possibility of making the large investments which europe requires. the new multiannual financial framework talks about a duration of 5 years plus 5, but i fear that another midterm review will be necessary because if the next review is to be like the one we have had and have been waiting for for a long time, it is certainly not a good thing. but it is connected with the 2020 strategy, and i agree with that, because it is one of the priorities expressed by this parliament. on the other hand, however, i also see the glass as half empty, because in the context of the cap there is a lot of reference to the public goods and services that agriculture must produce for the citizens, but very little to primary agricultural production and the competitiveness of the sector.
mr president, i thank the commissioner for his answer on soil erosion, but i would like to ask him a supplementary question. given that in the mediterranean regions a major cause is the presence of bare land as a result of forest fires and fires that are characteristic of the mediterranean territories, does the commissioner not think that it is appropriate to change the way agro-environmental premiums are calculated by introducing specific additional premiums for farms that undertake to develop and maintain practices that are environmentally friendly, but that are primarily aimed at preventing fires on farms and in rural areas?
member of the commission. − mr president, to answer mr kelly first, i would like to say that, in general, for countries which have a better system for controlling compliance and have all the instruments at their disposal, it is easier to absorb the money. this is a general rule. generally speaking, i have to admit that mediterranean countries – the countries of the south – have bigger problems. greece has a special problem. we have to be very sure that we can help everybody in order to have better absorption. it is our plan to make an effort to simplify the rules for absorption. that is why we will have a funding line in the framework of our cfp reform which will be much easier for the member states to absorb. referring to mr tsoukalas’s question about the mediterranean regulation, we have decided that this mediterranean regulation has to be implemented. we have had to implement this regulation since 1 june, and there is no way back. if we were to amend this regulation, we would need two or three years without any control and compliance system, so we are going to implement this regulation. i have already cooperated with the greek authorities. i have explained to them that they have to implement this regulation without any further delay. that means of course that all the provisions about special types of gear that are very heavy for the environment have to be met. it also means that we are going to exhaust the margins from our fund possibilities to give them funding in order to compensate them. this is something i would like to say referring to boat seines, to trawlers and to all types of gear: they have to give us a good example of compliance. we will do our best in order to exhaust our funding margins to make it possible for them to have better gear and to improve the selectivity of their gear.
the agenda includes the report by barbara weiler, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on combating late payment in commercial transactions (recast) (com (2009) 0126 - c7-0044/2009 - 2009/0054 (cod)) (a7-0136/2010)
member of the commission. - madam president, i believe that this debate concludes an important period of work. the commission, parliament and the council have agreed to give a joint and concrete response to small and mediumsized enterprises by implementing part of the small business act, by adopting tomorrow - at least i hope so - a directive which will give a sigh of relief to many small and mediumsized enterprises in the european union. for too long, the unpaid bills have been mounting: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. this is a phenomenon which places small and mediumsized enterprises in extreme difficulty, often at risk of closing down their activities because they cannot survive because of the failure of large enterprises or, above all, the public administration to comply with their commitments. i believe that the community institutions are preparing to give a positive response to the union's economy. when the legislation we are about to adopt is fully in force, some eur 180 billion will be put back into circulation, which will mean encouraging growth and innovation initiatives for small and mediumsized enterprises. as you know, access to credit is the key to the development and growth of the competitiveness of our enterprises. i therefore believe that to support this directive, as proposed by the commission, is a very important choice for our economy, because it finally provides an answer to millions of european businesses and a hope for millions of workers who are employed by the existence of companies which represent the backbone of our economy. i would like to thank the belgian presidency for its important contribution to the mediation, and i would also like to thank all the members who have been involved in this phase, starting with mr weiler, mr baldassarre and mr de angelis, and all the shadow rapporteurs who have made it possible to reach a positive solution. i believe that by harmonizing the payment terms for public bodies which have to pay their invoices within 30 days, we will inject a significant amount of additional liquidity into the treasuries of the companies. these rules will also have the effect of giving public authorities that pay late a strong incentive to update their management methods as well. in fact, when a public body purchases goods or services, it has already entered in the budget the appropriations for that expenditure. so it should not be difficult to pay creditors on time. it should also be noted that shorter payment terms will result in savings for public administrations. another important element of the agreement is that the companies themselves will have to pay their invoices unless different agreements between the parties are reached which are not unfair to the creditor within 60 days. in conclusion, let me remind you that member states remain free to maintain or adopt provisions more favourable to creditors than those necessary to comply with the directive. consequently, this legislation does not prevent member states from adopting shorter payment periods or more severe penalties. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this new directive shows the union's determination to give a decisive boost to european enterprises, and especially to small and mediumsized enterprises, in order to overcome an economic crisis which the commission intends to tackle with a series of measures. we have just presented the communication on innovation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. tomorrow parliament, in agreement with the council presidency and the european commission, will give a concrete answer to these expectations.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mrs weiler for her excellent work. with this measure, europe is putting an end to a mechanism that has brought many small and mediumsized enterprises to their knees. parliament is taking action to protect the small and mediumsized enterprises which are the most vulnerable, the most exposed to the winds of the crisis: the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules. the practice of late payment is now driving many small businesses towards bankruptcy, with negative effects on employment. the measure is important for the following reasons: a measure setting the maximum payment limit at 60 days, setting default interest plus 8% and excluding the use of unfair contractual clauses for the creditor. so, time limits, incentives and, most importantly, no waivers. these measures are designed to protect small and mediumsized enterprises and to revive the economic, productive and employment fabric. the member states will now have the floor to ensure that a directive is implemented quickly and effectively, which will confirm that europe is real, useful and has a voice.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive to the council. - madam president, commissioner tajani, distinguished rapporteur weiler, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased and proud to have contributed, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, to the adoption of a measure which constitutes an essential countercyclical measure and a concrete support for businesses - especially small and mediumsized enterprises - by establishing certain payment terms and appropriate penalties to promote the timeliness of payments within the european union, both by public administrations and by private individuals. if all those involved paid their debts on time, the european economy would receive a €300 billion liquidity injection. we cannot have a common market and fair competition unless we have uniform rules for all. this is the meaning of the new directive against late payment: to oblige public administrations to act more efficiently and virtuously, contributing to the harmonious development of the internal market and free competition for the benefit of small and medium-sized enterprises. this is a success to which this parliament has made a decisive contribution, overcoming all kinds of pressure and divisions to the benefit of the common good of the citizens and the european production system.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank commissioner tajani for his statements, which i fully agree with. the behaviour of bad payers too often resides in public administration and is often the cause of the failure of otherwise healthy businesses, causes serious damage to the competitiveness of our companies and causes a dramatic chain effect involving very important social aspects whose costs are sometimes ultimately passed on to the same public administration that generated this sequence of damage, with increases in prices, costs and therefore expenditure. in view of these figures, it is not surprising that a small enterprise - especially in times of crisis and economic recession such as the one we are experiencing - is forced to go bankrupt because of a lack of liquidity. it was therefore considered that such delays should be severely punished. the new parameters set by the approved report maintain contractual freedom in negotiation between private individuals, but impose limits (30 + 30 days); the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the opportunity to present a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. it is now up to the member states to implement this measure as soon as possible to provide oxygen - as the commissioner and other colleagues have said - to our companies which are still in difficulty today.
madam president, commissioner tajani, mr weiler, the directive on combating late payment in commercial transactions is a strong and important act of our parliament, which has become the interpreter of the just demands of european smes, which for years suffered from the delay in the payment of their invoices. this is a very serious factor, which has hindered the development of enterprises and in some cases has caused the bankruptcy of healthy companies, already subject to high interest rates by the banks. the agreement reached on 13 september between the european parliament and the council will now give businesses a certain deadline for receiving their invoices, a deadline which both public administrations and the private sector will have to respect. the proposal for a directive will certainly improve the cash flow of european businesses, which will thus have an important legal instrument to exercise their rights fully and effectively. i would not like these advantages for smes to be reflected in the purchase price. i hope that the member states will respond to the strong signal given by the european union at a time of particular economic downturn by speeding up the transposition of the european directive into national legislation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i personally agree with the need to strengthen directive 2035/ec and identify the instruments needed to eliminate, or at least significantly reduce, late payment in commercial transactions. the economic and political consequences of late payment on national markets, and especially on the european market, are obvious to all. the current economic recession has made the situation worse, further damaging competitiveness and profitability and seriously threatening the survival of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are an essential part of the european market, create wealth and are crucial for job creation. this policy choice by the european commission is in the right direction, the same one that mario monti pointed out in his report when he expressed the need to take action to make the business climate more favourable to small and mediumsized enterprises. as regards the timely compliance by public administrations or the dissuasive interest rate of 8%, they cannot hide a certain perplexity about the results, thinking of some regions in my country and other european states which will really struggle to comply with the new rules. i hope that this new address can be a real opportunity for change. it is now important to monitor the transposition of the directive into national law with the involvement of regional and local authorities, to ensure that it is implemented everywhere in a uniform manner.
madam president, commissioner tajani, ladies and gentlemen, small and mediumsized enterprises in italy and europe are suffering terribly from the effects of the crisis. they are the ones who have the most trouble when faced with a large debt, since it is harder for them to find collateral. they are the ones who need the most liquidity available, since they have less capital to invest. they are always the first to be overwhelmed by the difficulties of the market, and are less able to exploit the lever of diversification. it is in their interests above all that we shall vote tomorrow on the report on the proposal for a directive on combating late payment. public administrations are at the service of the citizens and their interests, which in this case are economic interests. it is in the light of these interests that administrative procedures must be designed, established and implemented to respect and enhance the efforts of those responsible for the future of as many families as there are workers employed in a firm. thanks to the european parliament, from tomorrow small and mediumsized enterprises will be better protected against those public and private counterparts who have so far been too concerned about the possibility of delaying their payments. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and commissioner tajani for their efforts.
member of the commission. - mr president, i think that the debate has shown, albeit with different nuances, the european parliament's willingness to support this new directive, which will provide concrete answers to small and mediumsized enterprises and to millions of citizens who expect to be protected by the community institutions in the preservation of their jobs. as a member of the european parliament for many years, i can only welcome the commitment of the whole parliament, and especially of the rapporteurs, to the rapid adoption of such an important regulation. i would like to thank, in addition to the presidency, all those who have collaborated: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks arising from exposure to carcinogens. we cannot, however, be satisfied with this, as some have already said, but we must ensure that these rules are quickly adopted by the member states, which have a maximum period of 24 months, even if we hope that some of them will be able to move ahead of schedule. i can also assure you that the commission will continue to monitor closely the way in which the directive is being transposed and implemented and will be careful to report to parliament within the time limits set. i thank you once again for your cooperation with the commission and for the extraordinary result we have achieved together in such a short time.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 20 october, at 12.30 p.m. written declarations (article 149) the following shall be made in the case of a declaration:
in writing. i welcome the proposal for a directive which represents a decisive step forward compared to the directive currently in force and which, once transposed at national, regional and local level, will make it possible to significantly improve payments, especially by public administrations, to the benefit of businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises which will be able to count on a safer cash flow. it is well known that in many european countries public authorities, in difficult situations, are accustomed to late payments, which very often cause the bankruptcy of some enterprises. a striking example is italy, where, at the end of 2009, corporate debts to the public administration amounted to some eur 60 billion and payment delays averaged 186 days, with peaks of 800 days: the commission notes that the loan was granted by the region to the beneficiaries of the aid.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the european economic area.
the presidency takes note of this.
member of the commission. − madam president, i should like to thank very much those who spoke. you gave a good coverage of all the issues that we are facing. before i get into answers, just let me say the following. when i arrived in the villages affected yesterday, the thought i had in my mind was: thank god it happened during the day, because if that accident had happened during the night many more people would have died. actually from a distance the houses look like somebody has painted half of them in red. obviously this goes above the level where there are beds in which women, men, kids, elderly people sleep. when we are faced with something like this, it is really appropriate to have a thoughtful discussion and to make sure that we draw lessons from it. then we can have a feedback into preparedness, prevention and response in the case of any future disaster. so i take the comments that have been made here in this chamber in this respect very seriously. let me try to respond to them. first, on the question of legislation and the role of the commission. my exact wording was that, from the first analysis we have carried out, it does appear that we have the appropriate legislation in place and that, where we are still lacking sufficient action, this lies in the implementation of that legislation. i am emphasising the words ‘first analysis’ and in my conclusion i did stress that we would look into whether we have gaps in the legislation. again, based on what we have in front of us in this case and in many others, the focus really has to be on implementing the legislation we have rather than on saying: ‘oh well, let us go out and write another piece of paper and stick it on top of many other pieces of paper’, when we know that the critical issue is implementation. when we talk about what we might specifically be looking into from a legislative point of view, there are two specific issues at this point, though there may be more when we finish taking stock. the first one is on the question of classification of the red mud as hazardous or not. we do not say that in every case when we have red mud it is not hazardous. it may be hazardous if there is a high content of heavy metals, and if specific technical qualifications are met. in other words there could be cases when red mud is classified as hazardous. at this moment of time, on the basis of the information that was provided by the hungarian authorities, we can say that, on the basis of their information, this red mud is not hazardous, but obviously we need to carry out a more thorough analysis. then the question would be how we deal with an issue like this and whether there is a need to tighten up the definition of hazardous waste. that i cannot answer today, but i can assure you that it will be looked into. the second legislative issue that is very important is the question of liability that has been raised by a number of speakers. do we have in the liability directive enough teeth to bite when it comes down to the implementation of the ‘polluter pays’ principle? i said at the very beginning that this is an area where the commission is already initiating work to assess whether there is a need for tighter regulation of how companies act in terms of having the means to meet their obligations as polluters. that again would be work we will follow up very thoroughly. the second set of questions concerns financing. what can we do? hungary has dedicated structural funds and rural development funds at its disposal. we know from experience that, in the process of implementing programmes, there is always some room for manoeuvre. basically no country has ever achieved 100% utilisation of structural funds, and priorities shift over time. therefore it is possible for hungary, if the government judges this a very high priority, to use structural funds or rural development funds for environmental monitoring for treatment facilities, for the rehabilitation of damaged infrastructures and the rehabilitation of agricultural land. they can also be used for changing land use, because it may not be possible for the land i saw to be quickly rehabilitated for its conventional agricultural use, but it may be possible to use it for energy crops which do not need to meet the same test in terms of dangerous materials. we also had quite different views on the solidarity fund. i would say two things here. one is that i agree that it is the responsibility of the polluter to pay, but at the same time, when communities are hit by a disaster of this nature, it is a matter of european solidarity and compassion to be able to give them a hand at this moment, because by the time that the liabilities of the company are met, months and months will have passed. i find myself in an awkward situation, as commissioner in charge of humanitarian aid and disaster response, when i can help the victims of the floods in pakistan quickly, but there is nothing in my hands as an instrument to help the victims of this disaster. this summer when we had floods in romania and moldova, i could very quickly provide funding to moldova, but i could not do anything for the victims of the floods in romania – and i am talking not just about myself, i am talking about us as european citizens. this is a question to be looked into to see whether indeed, with the increase in disasters both at home and abroad, we should have in our hands an instrument that allows us to show compassion to our citizens. and by the way, our citizens are perplexed as to why we can help pakistan when we cannot help ajka. there have been questions that were directed to the role of the commission. let me make this very clear. the inspections and the monitoring are a member state responsibility. we do not have a mandate in the commission to do it. what we do try to do – through training activities, awareness raising, lessons learnt – is to bring all member states up to speed in terms of their capacity to monitor and inspect. one of the speakers here said there are clearly institutional shortages in this area. we can help with training, but we do not have a mandate to be inspectors and to substitute for national authorities. i do not mean that we should never have this mandate, but we do not have it today and, frankly, i think it is much more important for the national authorities to be better equipped to perform their duties than for more and more layers of inspection to be built up. make sure that the people who do the job are equipped to do that job. there have been questions relating to the recycling of red sludge. the directive does provide for incentives for research, and our environmental legislation encourages the transition to the best available technology. specifically for this installation, it should be in compliance with the highest standards by 2012. of course, it is terrible that the disaster happened in 2010. obviously – and i will finish with this point because i am well over my time – we have to learn from this case and raise our alert level as regards other places in europe that could potentially be a source of danger in the future. for a hazard not to turn into a catastrophe, the key is in monitoring, preparedness and prevention, and i could not agree more with those speakers who have hammered on this point. we do have a policy on preparedness and prevention and again, as is the case with the legislation we discussed, the critical issue is for this policy to be turned into reality in our member states. for our part, we will bring you a proposal, a communication to strengthen the eu’s disaster response capacity, and we will come back to you with the lessons learnt from this disaster.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the debate on: the oral question to the commission on the data base on ethnic and racial origin in the european union, by monika flašíková beňová, claude moraes, kinga göncz and sylvie guillaume, on behalf of the s&d group (o-0143/2010 - b7-0553/2010), the oral question to the commission on the data base on ethnic and racial origin in the eu, by hélène flautre, raül romeva i rueda and judith sargentini, on behalf of the vert/ale group (o-0146/2010 - b7-0554/2010), the oral question to the commission on the data base on ethnic and racial origin in the eu, by renate weber, nathalie griesbeck, sophia ta 'teld, sonia veldt, cecilia alfano, marie wikström, sarah louis ludford, gianni michel, leon cornelis vidas, leon cornelis vidas, aldous delis, alexander delis, alexander jong, rudi, rudi, and ramon sargentini, on behalf of the b7-055/2010 - b7-055/2010), the oral question to the commission on the data base on ethnic and racial origin in the eu, by renate, by renate delia renate flašíková beňová, natha, natha gries, sophia ta 'teldt, sonia veldt, cecilia veldt, cecilia alfano, marie cecilia cecilia wikström, sarah louis, gianni ludford, leon corncz, leon corn vidas vidas, leon corn, almo, aldous delis vidas vidas vidas vidas, aldous delis, alexander, aldous delis, rudi, r
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, in a nutshell, the case against france has not been dropped. it has been postponed because we need to wait for the implementation of law in practice and cannot pass judgment on legal proposals. the legal proposals are acceptable, but they need to be implemented so that we can close the case. the case is, therefore, still open. regarding the ethnic databases which the cnil, the independent french data protection authority is inspecting in accordance with french law, and in this case in accordance with the european directives, we have to rely on the independent national data protection authorities because they are responsible under european law for carrying out the analysis. i think that the french independent data protection authority has shown that it is very capable of doing so. après avoir dit tout cela, je pense qu'il est tout de même très important de revenir sur le fond de la situation. nous avons, à part le cas français, 10 millions de roms en europe, ce qui en fait la plus grande minorité européenne. moi, je viens d'un pays qui compte 500 000 citoyens. les roms sont 10 millions, vous voyez un peu de quoi il est question. ils vivent dans la plupart de nos états membres, dans une extrême pauvreté. ils ont des problèmes de logement, d'éducation, de santé, de travail, et le fait que ces problèmes n'aient toujours pas été résolus constitue, à mon sens, le plus grand scandale. alors, j'espère que les agitations actuelles vont se poursuivre, et heureusement, parce qu'on ne peut pas tolérer ce type de discriminations. ces agissements auront au moins servi à ce que les états membres se réveillent, parce que j'ai encore en mémoire cette réunion ministérielle à cordoba, en avril de cette année, où, sur 27 états membres, seuls 3 états membres étaient représentés au niveau ministériel. eh bien nous aurons, un an plus tard, une nouvelle réunion ministérielle après avoir étudié de près, avec la task-force, la situation des roms et la question de l'utilisation ou de la non-utilisation des fonds européens pour voir ce qui se passe vraiment. nous tiendrons donc une nouvelle réunion ministérielle, un an plus tard, afin de voir concrètement quels sont les engagements de tous nos états membres sur des stratégies nationales pour les roms dans le contexte d'un cadre européen. j'espère que tout cela – et ce n'est pas très beau – aura servi au moins à une chose, à savoir que les roms ne soient plus relégués dans un coin lorsqu'il s'agit de faire des politiques pour résoudre le problème de l'extrême pauvreté. si nous n'y parvenons pas maintenant, et je crois que nous avons l'opportunité de le faire, la prochaine génération de parlementaires européens aura exactement les mêmes discussions que nous avons eues pendant ces dernières semaines. cela il faut l'éviter, donc agissons!
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
as you've seen, i've been pretty flexible about the timing, partly because they've all been very nice speeches, as well as very strong -- fim, casino and cholesterol -- ingredients of real sympathy for this discussion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the effects of the crisis are very heavy on societies in all european countries. if we look at the social consequences, we quickly come to the conclusion - which has guided much of the commission's work - that the worst is yet to come. unemployment is set to rise and the weak signs of recovery in some countries are not sufficient to guarantee job creation. we must therefore take into account that it will be essential to deal with the most acute part of the social aspect of this crisis which originated in the financial system and rapidly developed into an economic and social one. for this reason, we must also provide additional means of defending the most affected people. we will discuss a possible framework directive on a guaranteed minimum income in all european countries, which i consider very important for combating poverty on the one hand and for helping those who, in the coming weeks and months, will be hit by the very heavy tail of this crisis. but a crisis is fought through growth policies. growth requires resources, targeted investment, a defined agenda of priorities to which a substantial share of the available resources should be allocated. the union budget is not enough. the commission has therefore clearly indicated the need for additional resources to be spent on infrastructure investments and on investments in the quality of competition and employment. this road leads to the creation of eurobonds and the financial transaction tax. there is no alternative. that is why the solutions we have indicated are important and innovative, and i hope that parliament will confirm them in its proposals.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we should have listened to the advice of the nobel prize winner maurice allais, who wanted a clear separation between commercial banks, credit banks and speculative banks, in accordance with the principles of the glass-steagall act, which is not mentioned in this report. as regards the proposal to tax european taxpayers, i say 'no tax in europe!' if this european union proposal goes ahead, rest assured that there will be tea parties here too: there will be a mass protest. the european citizen does not want to pay for a service that is not provided to him, and he is quite right. the banks continue to be financed. but what are banks doing in the midst of the economic and financial crisis? they buy securities, even the ones that contain the derivatives crap and so on. they keep buying them. and what does the ecb do about it? the ecb which has decided to remain uninvolved is letting it go. it is clear to me that this is the europe of the bankers. even the masonic leaders have said so, let alone us. we believe that there is only one way to combat speculation effectively: the commission has not yet received any information on the amount of the fine imposed on the applicant. angela merkel dared to say it, and everyone jumped on her. there must be a reason.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i listened very carefully to the various speeches this morning, but i think we should be a little more clear, distinguishing between what are the instruments, which i believe are well defined and well aligned, and the strategy and our internal unity as a european community. i believe that decisive steps have been taken with regard to instruments and that we are therefore moving in the right direction. what i can 't figure out is the strategy: i mean, are we on the same page? because we have always talked about stability, but now it is time - indeed it is too late - to talk about growth. so when we talk about stability and sacrifice, i fully agree, but if we do not simultaneously aim at growth through job creation - a crucial theme of this period - i do not think we will do a good job. i think that this should be reminded of president barroso, who recently came to present the state of the union, clearly outlining the union's strategy on the financial market. i haven't heard of that strategy this morning. i would also say that it would be an unforgivable mistake to try to disguise the apparent anarchy between the member states by using the concept of subsidiarity, which is used too often and often inappropriately.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my appreciation for the important contribution that this work is intended to make by identifying a series of measures to overcome the present crisis and prevent possible future ones. the limitations of self-regulation, which have been worryingly highlighted by the recent global financial crisis, make the choice of global control increasingly necessary. the current phase of economic and financial instability, the most severe in decades, has produced a major employment and social crisis which requires decisive action to remove negative spillovers and prioritise the opportunities that are opening up in a globalised economy. the crisis of recent years has put a strain on most advanced economies. the recovery in some countries is still slow and the continued fragility of financial markets makes global coordination and the choice of appropriate economic and industrial strategies the key aspects in the fight against the financial crisis. global supervision should help stabilise sound financial markets and support the ongoing recovery by ensuring strong growth in demand and employment levels.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the word 'crisis' comes from the greek word 'krino' which literally means 'to decide', 'to choose'. it thus indicates a time that separates one phase from another. we need to look beyond and think about the past, so that we can implement the structural changes that will make our small and medium-sized enterprises more competitive and able to cope with the increased pressure that will result from a globalised environment. in doing so, we must also ensure employment for a large proportion of the least protected sections of the workforce and their families. the european union needs new economic governance to ensure the stability and rigour of national public finances. the financial and economic crisis we are experiencing must never happen again. europe's new economic governance must consider not only the size of public debt but also its sustainability in the medium to long term. private debt and the sustainability of social security systems are as important as public debt itself for the stability of public finances. countries that had public debt under control have entered into serious crises precisely because of the heavy indebtedness of households and businesses. and countries with high public debt have done well.
i am glad to go a little slower, but let us try to reconcile the need for speed with the right of each member to be able to play his role and to vote. - before the vote on block 3.
but that is for a later vote. i'll take that. this is internal information. - before the vote on amendment no 987
again, this is information from within the group. - after the vote on the budget
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this satisfaction is indeed reflected in the fact that you have just adopted amendments to the council's position on draft amending budget no 3 for 2010 and on the draft budget for 2011. i therefore take note of the differences between our two institutions and, in accordance with article 314 (4) (c) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, i naturally agree to the convening of the conciliation committee by the president of the european parliament.
this is not a kind concession by the council but is a requirement of the treaty. we, as a parliament, will of course play our full part.
mr schultz spoke in favour of the proposal by mr daul. i now give the floor to mr fox, who is opposed to this proposal.
i put to the vote the motion for a resolution tabled by mr daul. (parliament approved the request for a postponement of the vote)
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate. since the voting has been so long, thanks to your excellent work, i would ask those who have asked for explanations of vote to either change their statements from oral to written or to postpone the vote until tomorrow, because 62 requests have been made and we are unable to deal with them.
i have made a request, mr president, that the oral statement be converted into a written statement. in this way, however, you can give an account to your colleague of the reasons which have led you and others to vote in a certain way on the various dossiers. i don't want to take away any of your rights. i would just ask you to join the other colleagues who are giving up the oral statement in favour of the written statement. just this.
mr president, i agree with your request: mr mastella and i will make written statements. secondly, i would like to join my colleague in renewing my congratulations to you, mr president.
mr president, if you agree and to please everybody, we can postpone oral questions until tomorrow.
yes, i certainly agree. if mr sinclair agrees with me. i trust in the goodness of my colleagues, who i invite to make oral statements tomorrow or to make written statements today, and we give mr sinclair the opportunity to make them now.
mr president, at this point i would like to make a declaration of support for the result achieved on the estrela report.
but let's not extend this now. we have given the floor to two colleagues. the other declarations - 61 - are still to be made, 59 - either in writing or tomorrow after the vote.
in writing. − in any democratic system, parliamentary scrutiny of the work of the executive is a fundamental point, as is close communication between the government and the representatives of the citizens. this interinstitutional agreement between parliament and the commission satisfies, as far as possible for a complex and constantly evolving system such as the community system, certain legitimate demands of our assembly to the european commission. it is therefore right that the control of our assembly should be facilitated in relation to the commission, a technical body which cannot be the political brain of an entire continent and which must be held to account as much as possible for the content, reasons and methods of its action. it is also positive that efforts are being made to emphasise the need for an even greater presence of the commission in parliament's proceedings, particularly in plenary sessions, in order to respond to the requests of the representatives of the european citizens and to report promptly on the commission's position on topical political, economic, social and international issues. it is clear that if the eu is to move towards a democratic set-up, unlike today, the relationship between the commission and parliament will have to be further intensified and improved. my vote on mr rangel's report is in favour.
in writing. − the eu's constitutional architecture is increasingly taking the form of a nation state. the european union is not a political union, but a political union of the peoples of europe. it is from this that, in my view, the relationship between the commission and parliament is shaped, in the way that has already been tried and tested for decades, if not centuries, in each of the member states. in particular, the parliament's monitoring and investigation role is to be appreciated, as it is aimed at reducing the so-called democratic deficit and making relations between citizens and the commission more transparent.
in writing. − before the treaty of lisbon and the new legal basis of article 295 tfeu, the treaties did not explicitly encourage the institutions of the european union to conclude interinstitutional agreements. such agreements cannot alter the provisions of primary law but often clarify them. i am convinced that this project strictly reflects the institutional balance established by the lisbon treaty. i give my consent because this agreement represents a clear and significant improvement in relations with the commission. as with all agreements, the final text tends to be a compromise between the two parties; however, this final compromise is a balanced approach and a reasonable and consistent application of the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. - with this agreement, parliament has become 'better' and stronger and the democratisation of the european union has been strengthened. the adoption of this report is a strong signal of the desire to consolidate the principle of the separation of powers. the framework agreement is of great importance, since it defines the relations between parliament and the commission at a time when parliament has acquired greater powers, especially in the legislative process, being at the same level as the council. in fact, despite the treaties and the additional and implementing protocols, supplementary legislation was needed to specify and define certain matters better. in particular, i welcome the fact that the framework agreement clarifies the points relating to the political responsibility of both institutions, the circulation of information, external relations, enlargement and international agreements, the implementation of the budget, the commission's political and legislative programme and the union's multiannual programme, the commission's legislative competence and the implementation of specific powers, the monitoring of the application of community law and the commission's participation in parliamentary work.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report by mr gräßle and mr rivellini, on the financial regulation applicable to the general budget of the european communities, concerning the european external action service (eeas), because i believe that the promotion of financial integrity is important in ensuring fairness and transparency in the management of the institutions. the creation of this new diplomatic service, provided for by the lisbon treaty, is a major step forward for the european union, which will finally have a single diplomatic corps, with the task of facilitating action to make the union's external relations more coherent, secure and efficient. finally, i would like to stress that the european external action service will manage its own administrative budget autonomously and will also be responsible for those parts of the operational budget which fall within its mandate.
in writing. − the european external action service (eeas) will manage its own administrative budget autonomously and be responsible for it. in fact, when the new service is created and, in particular, when the financial provisions applicable to it are established, it is necessary to provide for the appropriate economic guarantees from the outset. to promote the financial integrity of the union, it is therefore important to ensure that the various services responsible for the supervision of monetary aspects, especially at delegation level, can easily interact with each other. by strengthening these guarantees, it is hoped that the confidence of european citizens in the union's institutions will be increased. the structural improvements presented in the proposal are therefore intended to assert the financial integrity necessary to ensure that the eeas can be trusted to operate in a correct and unimpaired manner.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the council's position on draft amending budget no 3/2010 of the european union for the financial year 2010, section iii - commission, allocates new resources to finance the accompanying measures in the banana sector for the acp countries (africa, caribbean and pacific). the commission proposal, which was drawn up without involving any branch of the budgetary authority, provides for eur 75 million in commitment appropriations to be entered in the reserve pending the adoption of the regulatory amendments to the regulation. i would point out that parliament and the council have not reached agreement on this. parliament had thought of using the flexibility instrument, which is ideal for dealing with similar situations, since these are funds that are ready to be mobilised and have a legal basis. the council, on the other hand, had a different idea, due to the unwillingness of the member states to use the flexibility instrument, which has the consequence of increasing their contributions. and for the reasons i have just given, the committee on budgets has noted the impossibility of reaching an agreement on the 2010 budget.
in writing. for the first time since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the european budget is adopted in a single reading. for the first time, this parliament has greater decisionmaking power vis-à-vis the council. this increased strength must, however, be accompanied by a high sense of responsibility and realism imposed by a persistent economic crisis. the committee on budgets has given a clear signal in this respect, by deciding to respect the margins imposed by the current financial framework and by pursuing a policy of rigour based on priorities to boost growth in favour of research, innovation and young people. i welcome the decision of this house to follow the instructions of the committee on budgets and the member states, which are often forced into debt as a result of excessive advances from the community treasury. the union budget must, however, be reconsidered in the light of the new competences resulting from lisbon and the need for own resources, issues which require firmness in the conciliation process, in order to give adequate financial support to an ambitious project such as the eu 2020 strategy.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the draft budget because i approve of its line and its content. i agree with the reinstatement of the ceilings in relation to the cuts made by the council. i think this vote is extremely important and i welcome the position taken by parliament in asserting the new prerogatives. the new budgetary procedure introduced by the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon enables parliament to assert its weight and powers vis-à-vis the council by advocating a strong and ambitious budget, which is at the same time rigid, in the knowledge that to revive the european union's economy, which has been severely affected by the recent economic and financial crisis, major investments are needed in key areas such as research and technological innovation.
in writing. - mr president, unfortunately in europe the birth rate varies from country to country, often depending not only on the guarantee of protection of rights but also on the social services available to working mothers, such as day nurseries. there is still a lot to be done to reconcile work and family life. the current system of maternity protection in italy is overall in line with the new parameters proposed in the directive, not only as regards the number of weeks of compulsory maternity leave but also as regards the payment of an allowance equal to 100% of the salary for the period of absence. it is significant that the directive clearly introduces paternity leave: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to adopt the same rules for the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women.
in writing. - there is no doubt that many member states still have very low birth rates. the institutions must therefore encourage births by means of an appropriate family support policy. the report by mrs estrela is in that direction and that is why i voted in favour. i believe it is right that maternity rights should be harmonised between the member states (they always take the health of new mothers and newborn babies into account first) in order to avoid discrepancies and a loss of competitiveness vis-à-vis those states which have already adopted advanced measures to protect maternity. in this respect, i welcome the proposal to extend maternity leave to 18 weeks in all eu countries, which is already in force in several member states: in my country, for example, it's 21 and a half weeks. finally, i believe it is essential to guarantee the right to return to the same job or to be assigned an equivalent job.
in writing. - equality between men and women is often a slogan, an empty claim to rights not always accompanied by assumptions of responsibility and sound arguments. this proposal for a directive, on the other hand, strikes the right balance between the biological role of women and the rights which derive from it for those who play it to the full. with demographic issues increasingly an emergency, and the economy requiring ever higher female employment rates, these measures provide a common sense response. the recognition of equality is complete when certain rights are extended to the father, to distribute family responsibilities in the most appropriate way, and flexibility of organization is left to each family.
in writing. − the vote on the legislative resolution amending directive 92/85/eec was conducted not only in support of new and improved measures for the safety and health at work of pregnant workers, workers who have recently given birth or are breastfeeding, but also, more generally, in support of new measures to promote reconciliation between work and family life. although the italian system is more innovative, the increase in maternity leave weeks at european level represents a strong increase in family care for the newborn. the support for paternity leave is also in this direction, although compulsory leave is perhaps not the most appropriate way of pursuing the right objective of greater effective presence of both parents at the most demanding moments for the new family unit and of greater awareness and presence of the father. the support, in addition to extending the rights of adopted children, allows a strengthening, and we hope a simplification, of the adoption process. finally, it is important to note that, with a view to achieving a better balance between work and family life, it is important to have supported the call on the member states to encourage the strengthening of childcare services with childcare facilities for children up to the age of compulsory schooling.
in writing. - mr president, the european union's social agenda sets as one of its priorities the need to promote all policies aimed at promoting the reconciliation of professional, private and family life, whether they are aimed at women or men. a better balance between work and family life is one of the six priority areas of action in the roadmap for equality between women and men for 2006-2010. improving these provisions is therefore an integral part of european policy in response to the recent sharp demographic decline. maternity and paternity are certainly fundamental rights which are indispensable for social balance. it is therefore desirable that the revision of the directive in question should benefit both working women and men who wish to take on family responsibilities. the principle of equal treatment must be respected in order to achieve a better balance between the protection of health and safety. these and other factors convince me to support the requirement, if necessary, to leave member states wide margins of flexibility in setting the rules on leave, but only for reasons of economic sustainability, to cover the additional costs that arise from it.
in writing. i am opposed to the proposal to increase maternity leave to 20 weeks with 100% pay. the adoption of this system would have major consequences for the budgets of states and companies; for france, the additional annual cost would be €1.3 billion, an unbearable financial burden in a time of budgetary constraints. if this is still a good idea, the consequences for women's employment may be negative. this should not be a setback for women. the return to employment of women after pregnancy and the access to employment of young women are likely to be severely affected by this measure. on the contrary, the proposal for a maximum of 18 weeks was a means of social justice. i call for the implementation of innovative ideas on childcare and reconciling private and family life as soon as possible, so that mothers and fathers can play their full role as parents.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, my decision to vote in favour of this proposal stems from the need to improve the safety and health at work of pregnant women, women who have recently given birth or who are breastfeeding. the amendment to the directive is aimed at promoting gender equality in the world of work by promoting a better balance between women's professional and private lives. women are often perceived as 'at risk' or 'second choice' because of the high probability of becoming pregnant or taking maternity leave. it's important to support some forms of leave to combat some prejudices and stereotypes. it is also important to remember that motherhood and fatherhood are essential rights for a balanced life in both private and public life. there are, of course, certain points in connection with certain amendments which have led me to express a contrary opinion. i believe that european legislation should establish a general framework, offering minimum guarantees and safeguards, within which the various member states should have the freedom and discretion to decide on the most appropriate measures. there are differences in culture, social security and social security systems which must be taken into account, also in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of a new global approach which would send a stronger message to businesses that human reproduction is a matter for both men and women. the framework agreement on parental leave is an important element of equal opportunities policy, which promotes the reconciliation of work and private and family life, but it only sets minimum requirements and can therefore only be considered as a first step. i agree with the communication that considers the rights of children to be a priority for the union and calls on the member states to adhere to the united nations convention on the rights of the child and its optional protocols, as well as to the millennium development goals. as regards this directive, this means ensuring that all children have the opportunity to receive appropriate care in accordance with their developmental needs and have access to appropriate and quality healthcare.
in writing. − today's vote encourages working women to become mothers, marking an important step towards increasing protection that will help millions of european women better reconcile their roles as mothers and workers. economic interests did not prevail: today, a path is being set up to meet the needs of new families. the outcome of the vote looks to a society that puts growth, training and education at the centre of political action. i think that the fears that the extension of maternity leave from 14 to 20 weeks with full pay may penalise women are unfounded: it is our duty to protect the most vulnerable workers, guaranteeing their right to stay at home with their children. today's victory in parliament is also a personal satisfaction for the efforts made in person to ensure that every woman who is a midwife does not have to do heavy or dangerous work, by exempting her from overtime and night work. the ball now goes to the member states, from whom i hope the greatest commitment. today's decision by the european parliament shows that it no longer wants women at a crossroads, but only free women who are aware of their role in our society.
in writing. - in an ageing europe, policies that favour women who choose to have children are essential. today, with fragmented legislation, there are too many differences between member states in support for motherhood, which prevent many women from becoming mothers. this directive sets a minimum of 20 weeks of maternity leave, of which at least six weeks are fully paid. it is clear that in countries such as italy this rule is superfluous, as the period of full pay is far beyond the minimum limit set by the directive and the periods of time for women to take time off work for reasons related to childcare are extended until they are eight years old. but for other countries, it means finally laying the groundwork for a dignified motherhood. the proposal also provides that fathers may also have two weeks of paid leave to be able to be close to their wives in the period immediately after childbirth.
in writing. - mr president, compliance with contractual obligations in commercial transactions, whether by public or private administrations, is not only a matter of civility but also of responsibility towards a series of negative conditions which could be detrimental to lending enterprises, especially smes. the fact that these companies can count on being paid on time means that they can enjoy stability, growth, job creation and investment. unfortunately, according to the european commission, late payment is a frequent occurrence in europe, damaging competitiveness. it is mainly the public administrations that create difficulties, often because of a mismanagement of their budgets and cash flows, or because of an overly bureaucratic process of the administrative machinery. sometimes, however, it is decided to operate on the basis of new expenditure prospects, without taking into account commitments already made and to be honoured within the contractual deadlines. i therefore believe that it is necessary to take measures to fill the gaps in the previous directive 35/2000/ec, thus seeking to discourage the phenomenon of late payment by providing for measures that induce debtors not to pay late and for measures that allow creditors to exercise their rights fully and effectively in the event of late payment.
in writing. - mr president, commissioner tajani, ladies and gentlemen, by adopting the new directive on late payment, a measure which represents a concrete support for businesses and in particular small and mediumsized enterprises, the european parliament is making a decisive contribution to the benefit of citizens and the european production system. the revision of the directive establishes certain payment deadlines and appropriate penalties to encourage timely payments within the union, both by public administrations and private individuals. it is estimated that this measure should put some 180 billion euros of liquidity back into circulation in the economy: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. the problem of late payments is particularly acute in italy, where it takes public administrations an average of 128 days to make payments, compared with a european average of 67 days. therefore, the negative effects of late payment in commercial transactions are considerable. i hope that this directive will be transposed into national law as soon as possible, thus removing one of the greatest obstacles to the development of the european internal market.
in writing. - after months of postponement, we have finally reached the vote on the report, which is a real breath of fresh air for the future of our businesses. the problem of late payments is a phenomenon which, especially in italy, has brought tens of thousands of businesses to their knees, costing the italian economic system something like 30 billion euros, according to the calculations made by trade associations. i am not going to go into the details of the national situations, but i am voting for the report, which sets out once and for all certain rules for both public and private operators. the economic crisis has already caused the failure and closure of factories, companies and business activities in dramatic numbers. europe can really help with this measure many productive entities which, because of the crisis, are living in permanent asphyxiation of bank credit, and which may already be navigating in bad waters because of credits to be collected that were late in arriving. when this directive is implemented, at least it will prevent many cases where companies are left to die of credit by other operators, public or private.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i believe it is of the utmost importance to take all possible measures to strengthen the competitiveness of smes. the fight against late payment in commercial transactions, which is an unacceptable abuse, must be pursued, especially at a time of economic recession such as the one we are experiencing. the negative effects of late payment are considerable, representing a high cost for lending enterprises, reducing cash flows and investment opportunities and undermining the competitiveness of smes. this directive rightly provides for measures to discourage debtors from paying late, measures to enable creditors to exercise their rights and also defines certain and precise rules, such as the moratorium, the compensation for recovery costs and the thirty-day time limit, subject to specific exceptions, for the payment of debts, which oblige and discourage public administrations from engaging in behaviour that may have a negative impact on smes, undermining the credibility of the policies adopted. finally, swift payments are a necessary and preliminary condition for investment, growth and job creation.
in writing. − i share the need to strengthen directive 2000/35/ec and identify the tools needed to eliminate or reduce payment delays in commercial transactions. i am thinking in particular of smes, which are an essential part of the european market, creating wealth and jobs. this policy choice by the european commission is a step in the right direction, aimed at making the business climate more conducive to smes. as regards the 8% interest rate deterrent, i am somewhat perplexed about the results for certain regions in my country and other european states, which will have a very difficult time complying with the new rules. i hope that this new address can be a real opportunity for change. let us now concentrate on monitoring the transposition of the directive into national law, with the involvement of regional and local authorities, so that it is implemented everywhere in a uniform manner.
in writing. − delayed payments in business-to-business and business-to-government relations are one of the existing obstacles to the resumption of economic growth. the vote in favour of the new directive on combating late payment in commercial transitions is a major innovation which will require adequate preparation, especially by the public sector, both at political and administrative level. at the political level, so that financial and budgetary planning takes account not only of the impact of eu rules on the stability pact but also, now, of the impact of new rules on late payments which, if not properly governed, could have a direct and reflected impact on the room for manoeuvre of governments at various levels. at the administrative level, adequate preparation is required for sound financial management of the public body, starting from the ratio between commitments and expenditure, so that burdens, such as passive interest, which could be significant for public budgets, do not burden the treasury and therefore the population. finally, it is important to pay particular attention and flexibility to certain sectors, including health care, where the public administration has accumulated large arrears in payments due to enterprises for actual goods and services supplied.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mrs weiler's report because i believe it is essential to protect the creditors of the public administration, which are in most cases small and mediumsized enterprises. this measure will allow the re-circulation of some 180 billion in liquidity: the amount of the total debt owed by the general government to the business system throughout the eu. this is a very important step, as companies will be given the automatic right to demand payment of interest on late payments and to obtain a minimum fixed amount of € 40 as compensation for the costs of recovering the debt. in addition, undertakings will also be able to claim reimbursement of any reasonable costs incurred to that end. i believe that this initiative will serve as an incentive for the eu member states to draw up readiness codes for payments. they will be able to maintain or enforce laws and regulations containing provisions more favourable to creditors than those laid down by the directive.
in writing. - among the many proposals in the small business act, the one on amending directive 2000/35/ec was, in my view, one of the most urgent. late payments in many countries (including certainly italy) have become a practice for the public administration. if the european average is 180 days from the deadline, imagine the peaks of delay and the consequences for the management of a medium-sized enterprise. the paradox is that the same state which demands the timely payment of taxes and duties, imposing penalties and applying fines from the first day of delay, when it is in debt, ignores the commitments. the amendment we are voting for is very important, especially at this time of serious economic difficulties. it will not be able to solve the problem on its own. if the procedures for the recovery of claims against public authorities in the individual member states are not made short and effective, the approved estimates will not have any effect.
in writing. - the report tackles the problem of late payment, a problem which destabilises the market and particularly harms small and medium-sized enterprises, for whom i have a particular concern. my vote in favour should be understood as the hope that a new commercial culture will be born, one more favourable to timely payment, one in which late payment is an unacceptable abuse to the detriment of the customer and a breach of contract rather than a normal practice.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the weiler report because i believe it is essential to set a ceiling within which companies must be paid. it is a need that in these times of crisis is even more pressing and fundamental. smes, together with entrepreneurs, play a significant role in all our economies and are key generators of employment and income and drivers of innovation and growth. unfortunately, too often in recent years we have seen companies that have a multi-million dollar debt to public bodies, but unfortunately have been forced to close or go bankrupt because of delays in payment. i therefore hope that other factors will be taken into account when the treaty is transposed, such as the relaxation of the obligations imposed on public authorities by the treaty and the gradual reduction of the time limits for payment. this would combine the two requirements and benefit the whole country system. i hope that the directive will be quickly transposed by the member states so that it can be applied as soon as possible. it is a duty on the part of us legislators and a right on the part of the creditors.
in writing. - i congratulate mrs weiler on her excellent work. the european parliament has given the green light to new rules to limit delays in payments by public administrations to their suppliers, most of whom are small and medium-sized enterprises. parliament has decided that public bodies will be required to pay for services or goods purchased within 30 days. if this does not happen, they will have to pay interest on late payments at the rate of 8%. the principle that work must be paid for in a timely manner is a fundamental principle of fairness, but it also plays a crucial role in the soundness of an undertaking, its financial availability and its access to credit and finance. the new directive, which will now have to be transposed into national law within 24 months of its adoption, will therefore benefit the whole european economy.
in writing. - italy is the country where businesses suffer most from late payments by public administrations, with an average of 180 days of payments to suppliers, compared to the european average of 67. this leads, especially for smes, to financial problems, a drastic reduction in investment opportunities and a loss of competitiveness. the directive voted today discourages debtors from paying late and allows creditors to protect their rights effectively against such delays, introducing the right to legal interest caused by late payment even where not specified in the contract and requiring the public administration to pay within a maximum of 60 days from the date of the request for payment, subject to proper performance. the adoption of this directive is a great help to our businesses: one in four businesses is closing down because of problems linked to poor financial liquidity. with the new rules on payments, companies will be competitive in the markets again and there will be no job losses.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years, late payment has become an increasingly important factor in the financial management of companies. they represent a serious and dangerous problem, which is dragging down the quality of the procurement system, seriously undermining the survival of small businesses and contributing to the loss of competitiveness of the european economy. the statistics are alarming, especially for italy, where the average payment is 186 days, with peaks of 800 at regional level, in the health sector. a real shame, which has often forced the closure of several smes. we are taking a big step forward with this report, setting the ceiling for public-private payments at 60 days. of course, the adoption of the legislation will not magically solve the problem, but it is certainly a starting point for activating a virtuous circle, especially in relation to relations with the public administration. the efficiency and immediacy of the public administration in settling invoices is an important step which will also benefit the european economy. i hope that the member states, and especially italy, will be able to implement the legislation very quickly.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mrs weiler's report on combating late payment in commercial transactions. business activities are severely hampered by debts or late payments, which often, as a kind of domino effect, cause otherwise solvent businesses to fail. late payment is a frequent occurrence in europe to the detriment of businesses, especially small ones. moreover, in most member states, public authorities are in financial difficulty and are often late in paying. the need therefore emerged to strengthen the legislative measures already in place by committing to combating late payments to support businesses, especially smes, and to establish certain time limits and appropriate penalties for non-compliance.
in writing. - mr president, the eu has demonstrated its commitment to combating poverty in europe in the context of the initiatives it has promoted for 2010, the year of combating poverty and social exclusion and towards the achievement of the united nations millennium development goals. given the gravity of the economic and social crisis and its impact on the increase of poverty and social exclusion, certain vulnerable groups of the population, such as women, children, the elderly and young people, have been most affected by the negative effects of the situation. in this situation, although the minimum income may constitute an adequate system of protection for these categories, it does not take into account the principle of subsidiarity and therefore the fact that this matter falls within the competence of the individual member states. since there are inequalities between wage and social levels in europe, it is difficult to establish a common minimum income threshold. i believe, rather, that it is useful to encourage individual member states to improve policy responses to the fight against poverty by promoting active inclusion, adequate income, access to quality services and a fair distribution of wealth. but above all, to encourage the member states to make better use of the structural funds at their disposal.
in writing. - economic and social cohesion is a fundamental prerequisite for any common policy, in europe as well as in smaller contexts. where interests differ, objectives will also diverge and no common plan can be drawn up. raising the living standards of those below the poverty line is a priority. public resources allocated to this area are undoubtedly a medium-term investment, since, if well distributed, they give rise to growth phenomena which feed themselves. it's always uncertain to make fixed-sum money transfers, unless they're part of a larger incentive discourse. two situations deserve a different speech: the first, of social importance, where a worker is unable to earn enough to live in dignity, because of physical or mental disability or other contingent reasons; the second, of legal and economic importance, concerns the rigidity of the labour market, which does not adequately link productivity and wages, or which does not allow people to work as much as they want or in proportion to what they want to earn in order to lead a decent life. in these two situations the public sector can and must intervene, leaving the other cases to create an incentive to engage and never the other way around.
in writing. − it is now essential to integrate the prevention of and the fight against poverty and social exclusion into other community policies in order to guarantee respect for fundamental human rights, universal access to essential public services, the right to health, education and vocational training. this requires the social sustainability of macroeconomic policies, the necessary reorientation of priorities and monetary policies, including the stability and growth pact, and all policies on competition, the internal market, the budget and taxation. this report deals with the controversial subject of the 'minimum income' as a means of transition from social exclusion to a fully active life. but it stresses the importance of accompanying it with broader policies, which also take into account the needs of other needs: health care, education, training, social services and housing. i voted in favour of this report because i share the idea of the need for a european strategy of coordination. however, i believe that the minimum income is a matter for the individual member states, on the basis of respect for the principle of subsidiarity. it is difficult to establish a minimum threshold in the various member states, where there are large differences in wages and in the cost of living in general.
in writing. − what is contained in the lisbon treaty, what is envisaged in the eu 2020 strategy and what is envisaged in the millennium development goals does not seem to be reflected, even at the forecast level, in the disconcerting reality offered by the number of people who still live in poverty. in europe alone, almost 80 million citizens live in poverty, 19 million of them children. the ambitious policies pursued by the international community to eradicate poverty have too often proved ineffective, difficult to implement or to be seen as mere aid measures. the objectives to be achieved must instead take a more structural approach, assessing specific initiatives, coordinated at european level, which have an impact on income, social services and health care in order to alleviate the burden of a financial crisis that has affected the most vulnerable on the labour market, such as women, especially the elderly, and young people. i believe that the evaluation of european initiatives aimed at establishing a minimum income can be one of the ways of combating poverty, albeit in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. the european union has always proclaimed 'social inclusion' as its founding principle. it is difficult to face the many situations that create marginalization, alienation, abandonment. among these, poverty certainly ranks high. but unlike causes such as disease, antisocial behaviour, race, gender, it is a condition for which civilised countries must organise ordinary means of prevention. the minimum income of citizens is a remedy, not a solution. i share the resolution's call for the commission to place the actions of the member states within a european framework of coordination and to provide for an integrated approach to the minimum income, including health care, education and housing. i would add, however, that i personally call on the commission to give priority to actions to support inclusion in the 'platform for combating poverty and social exclusion' in order to prevent it.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mrs figueiredo's report. work is the top priority for the population. the solidarity on which the european model of social market economy is based and the coordination of national responses are vital. initiatives by individual states cannot be effective without coordinated action at eu level. it is therefore essential that the european union should have a single strong voice and a common vision, while leaving the choice of the practical application of the measures to the individual member states, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. in the social market economy, as recognized and required by the treaty, the public system must implement adjustment measures aimed at speeding up and facilitating the achievement of a balance, with the aim of avoiding difficulties for citizens or of limiting them to a minimum. social policies are needed to protect families, limiting inequalities, and the burden and effects of the crisis. we must improve social protection systems by introducing long-term policies, including in the field of employment, and by providing greater stability for employment while avoiding unsustainable burdens on our national budgets.
in writing. - in a modern society of honest and active citizens, providing a minimum income for the unemployed would be a good thing. in reality, guaranteeing an income to those who do not work leads to a distortion of the world of work. many people would prefer not to seek employment by combining a minimum wage with undercover work or by engaging in petty crime. this negative assumption would certainly affect the less well-prepared sections of the population and particularly non-community families, who are often content to divide small and therefore low-cost areas among themselves. it is clear that the guarantee of widespread welfare would lead the poorest people in the world to try to come to europe because it is certainly better, little but surely, than nothing. for these reasons we are firmly opposed to the report.
in writing. - we voted on a very long, very complicated report, with its own detailed steps and its own architecture. but one thing above all else is not convincing: the real, intimate cause of the economic crisis in which we find ourselves has not been adequately addressed, even though it is mentioned in the recitals to the text. and this is not a contingent cause, but a structural cause, not just an economic one. the financial crisis was born above all from the illusion, cultivated by the elites of finance and world politics, that in the third millennium the economy and the wealth of humanity could be based more on finance than on the production of goods, more on the miraculous creation of products of banking engineering than on what is concretely created, produced, sold, marketed by hundreds and hundreds of millions of business entities in the world. the report does not give due weight to the need, which is almost a matter of economic and political culture, to restore the primacy of the real economy over the virtual one, and is therefore fatally doomed to suggest ways out of the crisis which would not in the end represent a real solution. europe does not need a further concentration of economic power at community level. europe needs enterprise and less bureaucracy. i therefore vote against.
in writing. - the adoption of this complex report is a very important step for the european community, which is crying out for clear answers and quick solutions to overcome this difficult economic crisis. i voted in favour because the text adopted today reflects the principles which have always been the basis of my group's economic policy. i am referring, for example, to the need for greater fiscal consolidation, a strengthening of the stability and growth pact, the completion of the single market. i am convinced that europe needs a profound transformation to double its growth potential and that this can only be achieved through greater coordination of the economic and fiscal policies of the member states. first of all, i think it is necessary to review the financial regulation which has proved not only to be flawed but one of the main causes of the crisis. the eu also has to deal swiftly with a number of challenges, including employment, demography and the pension system. first, policies to support smes, the economic engine and heart of europe, must be implemented, particularly by promoting tax relief and incentives to facilitate access to credit.
in writing. - the crisis has taught us a hard lesson, and will continue to teach us, about the static and dynamic aspects of economic policies. it is our job to take these lessons and leverage them to get back on track. we must avoid the mistakes of the past, recognize phenomena that have not been identified before, but above all go deep into the interrelationships between the real economy and finance, making employment and general welfare immune to shocks of this kind. but the european union must do more: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the reforms and will continue to monitor the implementation of the reforms. i am very pleased that parliament is reflecting on these issues and is continuing to monitor the situation, provided that these wishes are translated into concrete and effective measures.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mrs berès' report because i believe that effective cooperation between parliament, the council and the commission is needed to find a way out of the economic and financial crisis. the international monetary fund recently published an analysis of the current state of the world economy, highlighting how the recovery process is still fragile and differentiated. and in fact we are faced with two different scenarios, one of high growth in the emerging countries and the other of high unemployment and a slow recovery in the more economically advanced countries. i therefore believe that it is useful to begin a process of ensuring that public finances are sufficiently sound to maintain confidence in the markets and to restore the citizens' faith in the validity of the european project.
in writing. the vote in favour of the report was entirely due to the new agreement reached, thanks in particular to the epp. the draft initially presented by the rapporteur was a clear ideological provocation and therefore had to be changed completely. according to the imf, the priorities are to correct the remaining fragility of the financial sector; to ensure strong demand and employment growth; to maintain debt sustainability; to work towards a more balanced world growth; to address the challenges of large and volatile capital flows. the report, which recognises the contingent need to ensure adequate sound public finances to maintain confidence in financial and real markets, is in full line with the latest budget approved by the italian government to bring the deficit below the 3% threshold.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the cris report. as a member of this special committee i have been actively involved in the work and have contributed to the drafting of this report. in particular, i believe that in the social market economy, as recognized and desired by the treaty, the public system must implement adjustment measures aimed at speeding up and facilitating the achievement of a balance, with the aim of avoiding losses and difficulties or of limiting them to a minimum. instead of leaving it to the manufacturing sector, which is being forced to transform itself, to find new ways, we must deal with it by means of transformation plans, credits, changes of direction and other appropriate means. europe must return to attracting investment and production, establishing itself as a global model for innovation and growth. public and private financial institutions must work to ensure that markets work for the benefit of the real economy and smes, so as to put them in a position to contribute to europe's economic recovery and growth.
in writing. - mr president, this interim report on the financial, economic and social crisis is a useful tool for analysing the current economic situation in europe, but above all it points the way forward which europe must take courageously to avoid situations like these being repeated. i believe that to do this, as the report rightly points out, europe must immediately set up strong and authoritative bodies capable of governing the economic policies of our territories as a whole in a single word. i am convinced that europe can no longer afford to have a mixed and uneven response among the member states to economic crises whose consequences really threaten the very possibilities of growth of our economies.
in writing. the report is a compromise, with 1,625 amendments, and is divided into a series of key points that consider the causes of the crisis, ranging from the housing bubble to unsecured banking products, to the lack of european fiscal harmonisation and non-compliance with the stability and growth pact. the effects are those that are right in front of everyone's eyes: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem. the answers can only be: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the opportunity to express its views on the future of the european union. what is questionable is the introduction of a new financial transaction tax, which would in fact become the first european tax to be financed directly from the union budget. we cannot accept that europe, in a time of crisis such as the one we are experiencing, should put its hands in the already empty pockets of our citizens.
in writing. - i would like to thank mr feio for the excellent work he has done in preparing this complex report. i voted in favour because i believe it is of the utmost importance to improve the economic governance of the european union. the financial crisis has highlighted the lack of real political and economic coordination between member states and the ineffectiveness of the various control instruments. it is therefore time for europe to adopt a more robust legislative framework, which takes account of the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy, but also implements more controls on public debt and revenue, tax incentives for smes, the development of the internal market and the integration of labour markets. however, in the light of recent agreements, i do not support the introduction of numerical rules, which might prove too mechanistic and difficult to apply in some member states. we must not forget that the financial crisis was caused by toxic financial products and, before that, excessive private debt (subprime mortgages). in other words, the crisis was caused by imbalances in the private sector and banks, not by the public debt of the states. finally, i agree with recommendation no 3, which aims to strengthen coordination between member states through annual surveillance reports for the euro area.
in writing. − the adoption of the euro was a major step for the eu. and the main risk factor is linked not so much to monetary technical issues, on which the european central bank is doing a very good job, but to economic cohesion and the link with the real economy. the problem has emerged most prominently during the crisis: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. the reasoning on these issues cannot and must not be a mere exercise or an excuse for seeking legislative sovereignty over matters which are currently within national competence. it is rather to give coherence and systematicity to economic action in the face of increasingly complex situations, where the monetary challenges are different from the past and require different instruments and objectives, and where the responsibilities on the shoulders of the technicians must be accompanied by continuous and constant vigilance and by political directions based on a thoughtful vision of the future and an eye to solving the problems at hand.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report with recommendations to the commission on improving the economic governance and stability framework of the union, particularly in the newly voted euro area, is part of the wider debate, which has been under way for some months, on the measures to be taken to combat the financial crisis. the need for strong economic governance in the european union is clear, all the more so following what happened in greece a few months ago. we have been waiting for days for the final report of the task force on improving governance, set up by the president of the european council, mr van rompuy. but we can say right now that there is an absolute need to identify rules for the surveillance of economic policies, rules which are not mechanistic but realistic and sustainable, capable of strengthening fiscal discipline and, ultimately, of improving european governance.
in writing. - without rules and supervision you can't go anywhere. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the report by mr diogo feio, in this connection, allows us to highlight some not insignificant distortions, noting how 'recent economic developments have clearly shown that the coordination of economic policies within the union, in particular in the euro area, has not worked well enough and that, despite their obligations under the treaty on the functioning of the european union, member states have failed to regard their economic policies as a matter of common interest'. i therefore vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr feio's report, but as i have already said, europe is in dire need of serious reform in this area, even if the new economic governance of europe cannot be based solely on the size of the public debt. we do not need too automatic and pro-cyclical debt-repayment mechanisms which risk not reaching the target and even preventing measures to stimulate economic growth. i am, however, in favour of the adoption of monitoring mechanisms with flexible, reasonable and fully manageable formulas by the countries. the budgetary results and benefits of major social and economic reforms, first and foremost pension reform, are not seen in the next financial year but after several years in the medium and long term, in the sustainability of public finances. however, these are the most important and necessary reforms. we must therefore give greater and better consideration to structural reforms which serve to stimulate competitiveness and economic growth in europe. with competitiveness comes economic growth, with growth comes higher tax revenues and real financial consolidation.
in writing. − following the economic and financial crisis, the european parliament adopted a series of reports linked to commission directives on outcomes and how to counter it. in order to prevent a repeat of the speculative bubbles we are having difficulty getting out of, it is essential to provide for a series of interventions and controls between and with the member states. for example, the stability and growth pact must be respected. a serious and comprehensive control would probably have avoided the borderline situations in greece and spain.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur on the committee on development, mr mitchell, has asked me to take his place because he cannot be here today. i thank him for his usual punctuality and for the quality of his proposals, which have received the favourable opinion - i would say unanimously - of the committee on development. i am convinced that the report can be adopted by a large majority, despite what i am going to say and, above all, because of what mr mitchell has done so far. i now come to the report. in 2009, the european commission presented a proposal to amend regulation 1905/2006 establishing a financial instrument for development cooperation. with this proposal, the commission had asked parliament to approve an amendment allowing non-governmental organisations to benefit from tax advantages when operating in developing countries. the request was accepted by us. however, the cooperation and development regulation also contains the implementing rules for the european union's development policy. these rules provide that when the commission is to decide on the granting of funds, it is required to follow the comitology procedures. this means that parliament has the power to examine these proposals for funding and, if the commission exceeds its powers, parliament can adopt resolutions to ask the commission to change the decisions in question. since 2006 alone, parliament has found that in at least 12 cases the commission exceeded its implementing powers, but only in 3 of these cases has the commission actually amended or withdrawn its proposal for a decision. after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the committee on development proposed that the procedure for delegated acts provided for in article 290 of the treaty of lisbon be applied. adopting this procedure would mean that parliament would have a more important role at least in the strategic decisions on funding that the european commission has to take. in fact, under the lisbon treaty, in certain well-defined cases parliament can delegate to the commission the power to take strategic decisions. but what might those decisions be? in our view, it is up to the legislator to choose which countries the european union should provide development aid to. there is also the question of the priority areas for funding: education, health, environmental protection, the capacity of good governance or the development of small businesses? and how can we ensure transparency in the management of development aid? these are the choices and the matters in which the european parliament should play a greater role than it has in the past. in these areas it is the legislator who must give precise directions to the executive. and i think that is precisely the direction in which the demands of the european citizens are ultimately heading. i sincerely hope that the greatest possible consensus will be reached on this report by mr mitchell.
i would like to thank mr scholz for the preparation of this report, which establishes a financial instrument for cooperation with industrialized countries, an instrument which should be dealt with by the inta committee because it concerns mainly cooperation with industrialized countries and with emerging countries, and for which there is a certain difference compared to the other instruments. i think it is necessary to emphasize first of all the role of parliament. we have also wasted too much time in a tug of war with the council and the commission over an obvious issue after lisbon. we must defend the centrality of parliament both in terms of delegated acts and executive acts. i would like to stress, secondly, the strategic importance of this whole game and, thirdly, the need to intensify cooperation with developing and emerging countries without taking money away from the poorest countries. we must make an effort, within the union budget, to divert more resources to the poorest countries, bearing in mind that the problems with the emerging countries are more related to rules than to funding. however, innovation must also be supported, but with additional resources and not with the resources of the poorer countries.
member of the commission. − mr president, this has been a fascinating debate. in a way, it very much coincides with yesterday’s speech here by secretary-general ban ki-moon, when he clearly said that the eu and the united nations share responsibility in this world in the fight against poverty, the fight against climate change and the fight against nuclear proliferation. it is a common challenge that we face. on the whole, our citizens today are not too worried about this issue because they believe that we take care of this issue and also promote our values. transnistria was mentioned. it is not thousands of kilometres away from us; it is very close. concerning peace and security, it is true that we do not have too much conflict, but that is because we have an extremely active external policy in order to prevent any conflict as soon as it starts. i believe that we have experience that we can be proud of. financial instruments definitely help us to address these challenges. i believe that today’s debate was basically very positive about the experience that we have had from the financial instruments. at the same time, i would emphasise that we have full accountability, and that it is taxpayers’ money. whenever we start a project there are ex ante controls and there are ex post controls afterwards. there is a court of auditors of the european union that looks not only at whether the money is spent correctly, but also at the political reasoning behind this. the committee on budgetary control is quite tough with regard to any commission spending, so i can assure you that taxpayers’ money is very much valued and is spent with good purpose. we always discuss how to be more effective, but i can assure you that we follow policy objectives that have been agreed with this house. today’s debate has already started the next debate, because ambition concerning the revision of financial instruments has been rather humble until now. we wanted just to adopt them until the year 2013, with some particularities. some of you address the challenge for countries that will have particular issues because of our agreement on the banana trade. it is necessary to adopt banana accompanying measures as soon as possible. it is not only our credibility which is at stake; countries really face a challenge. that is the reasoning behind it. i believe that this house was very supportive of it. we have started to debate what will happen after 2013, and i would draw your attention to the fact that this is the beginning of the debate. we are not prejudging what will happen after 2013. the budget review was adopted by the commission yesterday; it will be considered in this house. i intend to discuss the green paper on modernisation and development policy within the commission. i believe my colleagues will also come forward with issues. we need to agree on policy priorities and also financial instruments well in advance so that we do not need to make an adjustment later if we find that there is not sufficient money in one instrument and we try to cover some of the priorities with reallocation. i understand that this is not the best possible way, but it means that before adjusting the financial framework we should agree what we would like to achieve, which instruments should be applied and what scope we would like to see. i would like to emphasise that, as a commissioner, i have two budgetary authorities. one is definitely this house, but the other is the council. i believe this means that, for all the scrutinies that we will carry out and on which we should agree, we need to follow the letter of the lisbon treaty, with the political willingness to find the right compromise so that democratic scrutiny can be fully emphasised to show that is efficient, swift and effective. this is exactly what we have discussed today in the meeting that i mentioned in the first speech. i have every reason to believe that we will find the necessary compromise. it will not be easy; it will require a lot of political will. on the commission side, we definitely have the political will because i know what the stakes are, particularly for some of the measures where we need a swift conclusion of this process. thank you very much. i very much commend the work of the rapporteurs, which was very much appreciated from our side.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by warmly greeting commissioner piebalgs and ask him to take an active part - and i think he will do so with all his heart - in the vote we will be taking tomorrow, because this is a matter of great importance for parliament, which will have greater powers after the treaty of lisbon. thank you, lieutenant piebalgs. i also thank all the speakers who have given their support to today's debate. i very much hope that tomorrow's vote - if not unanimously - will nevertheless achieve a very large majority, guaranteeing a great success for the mitchell report, precisely because it is important that the european parliament, after the treaty of lisbon, has greater powers.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, today's debate is a meeting point between two crucial principles. on the one hand, the duty of solidarity with a country hit by natural disasters which have brought its society, which already suffers from structural problems, to its knees, and on the other hand, the need for a balanced trade policy. with the commission's proposal for a suspension of customs duties in favour of pakistan, the european union rightly avoids a policy of mere humanitarian assistance, allowing pakistan to strengthen its economy and, therefore, its society. the fact that almost all of the 74 tariff lines concerned belong to the textile and clothing sector is almost inevitable for a country which can only export products falling within this sector. we liberal democrats would certainly prefer to resort to this kind of measure rather than grant humanitarian aid which is incapable of bringing about a real recovery in the country. however, as mr melo said earlier, we must not be naive. we are asking the commission above all not to be naive. the commissioner is well aware of the critical situation in which some textile districts, such as prato and many others, find themselves. prato is a special case: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of the textile industry, and it is not surprising that the situation in the textile industry is beyond the control of the national authorities and that there is widespread illegality, but this illegality is also reinforced by the crisis in the european textile industry. we believe that the european textile industry cannot be expected to pay for our humanitarian solidarity with pakistan alone. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted by the threat of a trade war. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the textile industry in the community, such as the introduction of a new system of quotas for the textile industry. (3) to avoid setting a precedent for other countries that should suffer such natural disasters. by operating in this way, i believe that the aid to pakistan is shared and sustainable also in the long term, and that is what this country needs.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we must be aware of the crisis that the european union and its member states are experiencing on a world scale, a crisis that affects work, employment and growth. i wonder what the driving logic is of some european countries, but above all of the commission, when it comes to international relations. the commission's measure under discussion today will severely penalise certain industrial sectors, particularly the textile sector, and in a context such as the present one we wonder why. some fear that these decisions will be the result of the desire for european leadership on the international scene. we know that this is not the case, and it is even less so with regard to the attempt to reduce the pressure, including that of terrorism, which exists within certain political and institutional systems or in any case is linked to them. the truth is that the recent floods have nothing to do with this measure either, because the major concentration of pakistan's textile industry is not in the disaster-hit regions. the real reason is that once again a sector that favours the financialisation of the european economy and the large-scale distribution sector is being penalized in relation to the interests of manufacturing industry located in certain european countries. this is deeply wrong in terms of growth, work and employment at a time of severe economic crisis and a need for real growth by the european union on world markets, of its exports, of its capacity for innovation and quality.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are all concerned about the floods that have devastated pakistan and the heavy impact on the economy, but we are also concerned about the commission's proposal, although it was urged by the heads of state or government in the initiative. the commission's proposed regulation focuses on exempting from duties the textile and leather goods sectors, which account for 60% of pakistan's exports, with a turnover of almost eur 200 million for textiles and eur 510 million for the leather industry, both of which are characterised by production located in neighbouring areas and not clearly affected by the floods. it seemed to us that the political indications were instead directed towards choosing targeted aid which would not damage structural sectors of the european economy. the suspension of duties will have a heavy impact on the european textile and leather industries, with the potential loss of thousands of jobs over the three years provided for by the regulation. measures complemented and aggravated by the gsp+ system of preferences which will be extended to pakistan in 2013. we are all aware, commissioner, that exceptional and unilateral measures are being taken because we want to help a large, poor country in difficulty because of the catastrophe that has struck it, made even worse by the economic crisis and the failure to adapt the wto rules. the current policies, in fact, favour already developed countries, such as china and india, over poorer countries. but exceptional measures in favour of one country cannot mean the crisis of others. the commission proposal therefore requires significant adjustments to diversify the sectors involved, including pakistan's production and exports, by accepting a different view and serious reflection on respect for human rights and the fight against terrorism. pakistan must be helped, but through clear agreements, also with due regard for the political situation in the region.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i wish to express my disagreement with the possible suspension of customs duties for pakistan for three years on 74 tariff lines, almost all of which relate to the textile and clothing sector. my concerns are the negative consequences for european industry, especially italian industry, and the loss of jobs in europe in a sector already badly affected by the economic crisis. i am referring in particular to the small and mediumsized enterprises in this sector, which we are trying to help in every way and which would suffer considerable damage. it is also worth noting that pakistan earlier this year imposed a 15% duty on its exports of cotton yarn to discourage the supply of raw material. the intention is clearly to conserve their raw materials by seeking to obtain more attractive exchange rates for their exports. i fully understand the need to help a country with serious problems, even after the serious disasters it has suffered. but the european aid i would like is to help build roads and infrastructure using local labour.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i find it paradoxical that the european union, instead of defending our jobs, is putting them at risk by hiding the possible consequences of its actions behind the rhetoric of humanitarian aid. the possible reduction of duties for the next three years on clothing products from pakistan risks plunging the manufacturing sector into an even heavier crisis than the one we are experiencing, with a loss of 120,000 jobs throughout europe, 40,000 of them in italy alone. pakistan must be helped, but we cannot adopt soft trade measures when my country, italy and other member states are already suffering from counterfeiting of textiles, especially from asian countries and especially from china. the commission cannot be charitable to the detriment of italy, which represents 30% of the european textile industry. i believe that, together with pakistan, our small and mediumsized enterprises should also be helped to emerge from the crisis by imposing tariffs and quotas on asian products. i'm from prato and we pratians have boxes full of such provisions!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that pakistan needs help in the wake of the floods that have struck it. but the question we are asking today is what kind of aid does this country need most and what kind of aid is the european union best able to provide. action must be swift but also effective. it is precisely the effectiveness of the action proposed by the commission that i have the greatest doubts about. i find it a flawed proposal which risks not being sufficiently effective, especially if it is used in the textile or leather sector, since it is aid which could generate new tensions because of the new poverty it would produce in europe and which would further bring the already very troubled european textile sector to its knees. it is also important to bear in mind that encouraging exports by manufacturing companies means helping those areas of pakistan which have not been affected by the floods, while our aid must be used to create competitiveness and development, helping to restore production in the areas of the country affected by the disaster. for all these reasons, i think that the path of tariff abolition is absolutely inappropriate and that it does not meet with our approval or our support.
the rapporteur. - madam president, mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, many of the european union's major economic and trade partners have long had internal regulations requiring products imported into their territory to bear a designation of origin. in 2005, the european commission presented a regulation to put the european union on an equal footing with these countries by requiring that a number of products imported into the european union be labelled with a designation of origin. this regulation will remedy a situation of disparity which has been experienced so far by european consumers who, compared with citizens of non-eu countries, do not have the right to choose, with full knowledge of the origin of what they buy. it is therefore a violation of a democratic right which presupposes freedom of choice, which in turn, in order to be exercised, presupposes the right to knowledge. the regulation removes the inferiority of european citizens and also restores the legitimate right to reciprocity; this is a regulation which is being called for by many consumer associations and is shared by many business associations. the european production system will never be able to recover if our producers are not placed under the same guarantee conditions as those of other countries where a regulation on the indication of the origin of products is already in force. european producers - who rightly have to comply with many of the obligations imposed by the european union to ensure the quality of products to protect consumers and who, in order to export, are obliged to identify their production with a mark of origin - are now facing unfair competition from producers in third countries who can export their goods to europe, effectively concealing their origin. the european small and medium-sized enterprises, which were voted in favour of a resolution in the last legislature on 5 february 2009 on the problems they face in becoming international, continue to face difficulties today because they face unfair competition from those non-eu producers who can export to europe without the mark of origin and european consumers are deprived of their right to an informed choice. the free market, to be truly free, must be based on fair competition and have clear, shared and enforced rules. that is why the adoption of the regulation will finally remedy the deficit of democracy and fair competition which still exists in europe, especially to the detriment of consumers. the regulation was approved by the european parliament's committee on international trade by a large majority: 19 in favour, 3 against. the european parliament had already expressed its support in the previous legislature by a written declaration adopted by a full majority and, in the current legislature, by a vote on a resolution which received 529 votes in favour out of 593 votes. it is really surprising that today some members who had signed the written declaration and voted in favour of the resolution of november 2009 have tabled an amendment to reject the regulation. i am quite certain that those who oppose this proposal will not want to give european citizens the same rights as chinese citizens.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. madam president, if you were to go to venice, perhaps with commissioner de gucht, to the rialto bridge and buy a pair of shoes that are purportedly italian, a tie, a typical mask or a glass of murano, you would be in danger of being mocked, as you would find that the product you are buying was not made in italy at all but in some asian country. i believe that the proposal for a regulation under consideration is beginning to put some order into an increasingly confused global market, seeking to protect the consumer - including you, madam president, and commissioner de gucht if you are shopping on the rialto bridge in venice, or elsewhere - european industries that have not relocated (while those that have will be penalized by this regulation) and above all it will correct the asymmetry in the commercial markets, which sees europe as the only large area without a regulation on compulsory origin labelling. it is not a protectionist proposal, and i think it is very balanced. it only concerns a limited number of products, the final consumer product and - as far as my group is concerned - a five-year pilot project because we will support the amendment with the sunset clause. in addition, we have also introduced in the committee, through an amendment of my own, a provision which seeks to avoid any excessive bureaucratic burden on businesses. if the vote tomorrow is satisfactory, it will be a stage victory, not a decisive victory. we will then need the full support of the commission in its relations with the council, a commission which has already been very generous with suggestions and very cooperative and which we thank, which is why we must continue to work together. i am sure that in five years' time we will be satisfied with the result we have achieved.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow the european parliament will vote on the regulation on origin labelling, according to which as the amendments are now being tabled the origin mark should be applied to final consumer goods and to goods intended for the final consumer. the latter definition could cause a serious chain reaction, since it does not include semi-finished and intermediate products which are made in non-european countries and once they reach europe, with a final and perhaps insignificant processing, could acquire the 'made in' mark. the consumer would not be fully informed of the true origin of the product, while large industries would be encouraged to carry out relocation processes in non-eu countries, multiplying their profits to support themselves exclusively and impoverishing our production districts. for these reasons we have tabled amendments to extend this definition to semi-finished and intermediate products, in order to ensure transparency in the traceability of products imported from third countries, on the model of the italian reguzzoni law, which fully respects the rights of the consumer. ladies and gentlemen, this is really the last opportunity we have to protect the manufacturing sector, in italy as in the rest of europe, which is one of the main drivers of the economy, unlike those few industrial powers, who are concerned with their own interests and not the good of the whole community. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal immigration, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's citizens are not subject to the same treatment as the rest of the citizens of the community. the battle we are waging is not against anyone but for work, for businesses, for our workers and for all european citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i thank the rapporteur, mrs muscardini, and all the shadow rapporteurs with whom i have been following this extremely important dossier. i hope that tomorrow the european parliament will give the same convinced consent to the legislative resolution as it did in july 2006, with the written declaration of 2008 and with the vote in favour of the 2009 resolution. we are about to adopt a measure which should protect the consumer by informing him of the origin of products for more general use, which restores equality of opportunity in international trade and reciprocity between the european union and its main competitors. it does not add any additional costs to the companies in third countries, which are already obliged to mark these products in all the countries of the world, our competitors and many others, nor does it create any burden on the european distribution system which, indirectly and without any cost to public budgets, favours the return of important products to europe, stops the relocation and contributes to the fight against counterfeiting. it is a set of advantages so obvious that they cannot be stopped by invoking additional measures, because here it is just the case to say that the best is the enemy of the good. we must complete a process which began seven years ago, taking care not only of the interests of our companies - especially in this time of crisis and unemployment - but also of the potential of regulated trade based on reciprocity, consumer protection and correct information, which may find further developments in the field of traceability. but woe betide us if this measure does not receive the favourable vote of this parliament. i would like to thank the commission and all those who will support it, because it is useful for the european citizen and for world trade.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, europe could not escape this duty: only from here can and should action be taken. i thank mrs muscardini and all the other colleagues who have worked on this dossier for their tenacity. as regards the traceability of goods from non-european countries, i believe that it is important for consumers to know the origin and provenance of products, in order to safeguard their health and freedom, including semi-finished products, where the chain is highlighted. on competitiveness: the absence of such a regulation affects the rights of european citizens and consumers and prevents the proper functioning of the market, which, in order to be free, must have common and shared rules, without disparities or unfair competition. in relation to the protection of small and mediumsized enterprises and their domestic products: it is not the large groups that need such protection, and i do not think they need it at all, since they are the ones who are navigating the world with their brands. we must also make the most of the special features and the typical excellence of our countries, revive the european economy and ensure that workers' rights in social, environmental and production matters are respected. mr president, commissioner, i wonder what there is to fear in speaking the truth and wanting to establish equal rules for all. we must try not to be co-opted by the community method of codecision and avoid the council always imposing its will. in the meantime, let us try to achieve this by supporting the regulation in question. the rest is to be seen.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, all citizens have become aware of the global dimension of the economic crisis and we believe that they are aware of the importance of adopting common rules to avoid distorting markets and dangerously slowing down trade. the european union has recognised the need to provide citizens with clear information on products moving within its borders and has moved in this direction, taking into account the interests of both states and citizens. while the former are interested in making the most of their resources without being protectionist, the latter are interested in knowing the origin of each product at all times, even if it means waiting a while for this system to apply to all categories of goods. we want the european union to speak with one voice, equal to all the other voices that are strongly expressed in international markets. we shall therefore be supporting tomorrow the report on the indication of the country of origin of certain products imported from third countries, and we shall be calling on the council to play its part in bringing this legislative process, which has now taken six long years, to a successful conclusion.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, five years after the proposal for a regulation, we shall finally be voting tomorrow on the compulsory use of the mark of origin for certain products imported from third countries. the european parliament has repeatedly expressed the need for a rule recognising the right of consumers to have correct information on the origin of products, thus encouraging a more informed choice. our products are often the victims of counterfeiting and misleading claims. this regulation will help to give european companies greater guarantees and to regain their international competitiveness. i hope that parliament will send a strong signal by approving by a very large majority the report by mr muscardini, whom i thank together with the shadow rapporteur, mr gianluca susta.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we support this regulation with enthusiasm and we thank the rapporteur, mrs cristiana muscardini, and mr susta and mr rinaldi. i too believe that this is an intermediate step. we have to decide whether it is right for a consumer, when buying a product, to know where it was made. we think it 's right . it is a standard that is aimed at transparency and the protection of consumer rights. we are not concerned at this time whether, in order to protect the rights of consumers to transparency and clarity, some of the companies that have relocated will be penalized in some way. i listened carefully to my swedish colleague, mr fjellner, who is from stockholm, and i wanted to tell him that i would like to have the peace of mind of going to his country to buy a typical swedish-made dress with the certainty that it was really made in sweden. because it could be a swedish brand, even though it was made by a small manufacturing plant, maybe 10 kilometers from my house. i'd feel like a fool to have come all the way to sweden to buy something that's made in my own home. the trade mark of origin is therefore welcome if it provides transparency and the possibility of clarity and knowledge for consumers and, finally, a minimum of answers to the large number of companies which have courageously not relocated and have been overwhelmed by unfair competition.
member of the commission. − mr president, i notice there is much support across parliament for the proposal, so i will not go into many of the remarks which have been made because most of them support the commission proposal and the muscardini report on it. let me just say with respect to the rules of origin that this is a very stabilised regime. these rules are very stable indeed and they are well known, because it is on the basis of these rules of origin that customs duties are paid when products come into the european market. in fact, our proposal fully relies on them. there can be no misunderstanding about that. the second remark i would like to make is about an amendment introduced by mrs muscardini, which in fact proposes that this ‘made in’ regulation would be a kind of pilot project that would be evaluated after a four-year period and perhaps changed. i consider this an amendment worth supporting, because i imagine that it will enhance the chances that this proposal has in the council. the reason why this proposal dating back to 2005 is not eu legislation is simply that the council does not buy it. it has refused it until now, but the proposal by mrs muscardini to make a pilot project out of this for a five-year period, with an evaluation after four years, is a very good step in the right direction. that is why the commission can accept the amendment proposed.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commissioner for the consideration he has given to the proposals we have drawn up in committee. the work was long and difficult, but we tried to take account of everyone's needs. i am particularly grateful to the shadow rapporteurs, mr susta and mr rinaldi. we were able to present a text which covers in its entirety most of the problems which were put to us. i also thank the members who have voted overwhelmingly in favour of the regulation this evening, but above all in favour of greater democracy and respect for consumers and european citizens. i hope that tomorrow's vote will finally open the way to a new phase of european union, a phase in which the political will of the union is reaffirmed on the one hand and the right of european citizens to be informed and to participate in the choices made by the union is reaffirmed with ever greater force on the other. it has been a long process of compromise and i am frankly surprised that there are still some colleagues, representing some countries, who would rather imagine rejecting the regulation than guaranteeing their fellow citizens the same rights enjoyed by chinese, indian, american and so on citizens. i hope that the night brings counsel and that each of us remembers that one day we will be asked for reasons for what we did well, for what we did wrong, but also for what we did not do. today we must finally act with an understanding of what the world represents to us. freedom and democracy are defended by knowledge.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the negotiations are difficult, with strongly opposed interests and also with different interpretations of the consequences of this agreement. as far as i understand it, the current stage of the negotiations involves a disparate treatment of geographical indications and trade marks in favour of the latter, and the intangibility, in contravention of article 22 of the trips agreement, of trade marks using names protected by geographical indications, such as parmesan - but this is only one of many possible cases - which can be freely produced, such as parmesan, by the united states and australia and exported to china or elsewhere, in direct competition with european products, which have as one of their strengths geographical indications themselves and which would be supporting unfair competition without any effective protection by acta. i would like to have a clarification on this point. but parmesan means "from parma", not australian or american, and that's true of every european geographical indication. let us be careful because if in the globalization of the 21st century, in a few years, we lose our geographical indications, it will also be because of the wrong choices today and we will lose a huge part of our identity. in this context, if all this is allowed by acta, the agreement is unacceptable. then there's the internet aspect, which i mentioned earlier: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union, including the european union's neighbours, the countries of central and eastern europe, the countries of the former soviet union and the countries of central and eastern europe. much has been achieved on this. the commissioner has given important assurances, but it would be unacceptable for the acquis communautaire to be undermined, as it still appears, by the possibility of judicial injunctions provided for in article 2, by the possibility of criminal sanctions even for individual users, as provided for in article 2, part 14, point 1. i appreciate the very important assurances about access to medicine for developing countries but we know that the list of countries that are part of acta is very limited and excludes the big powers of counterfeiting, especially those in asia but not only. and for that reason, given all that we have to lose on geographical indications and risks on the internet, the impression, for now, is that the agreement is just a disadvantage and, on that basis, perhaps it is better to let it go.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the commission, and in particular commissioner de gucht, for the hard work he is doing in negotiating with the united states, a work aimed at finding a point of convergence on an agreement which unfortunately seems to be endless. we are still far from a solution to the problems of intellectual property, which continue to be the subject of a dispute between two separate blocs, both economically and politically. europe must continue to focus on two key areas: the commission has also proposed that the european union should be able to provide the necessary legal protection for european geographical indications, which are currently suffering not only from the agro-food industry, whose counterfeit products are subject to unfair competition, including through the use of names that copy and refer to well-known european brands, but also from industries in sectors such as design and fashion. there is damage to business, to intellectual property, to research and, as always, to the consumer. a second key point is to have common rules for controlling online sales: the internet continues to support the uncontrolled sale of counterfeit films, books, music, medicine and millions of other goods. the union must send a clear message to the rest of the world: the acta negotiations must be a bulwark against any counterfeiting.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on the night of 18 october a violent storm struck the town of paola, the town of san francesco, and it affected the whole of calabria. extensive damage to public facilities, civilian housing, water and sewerage networks, electricity and telephone networks, not to mention landslides and landslides. many families have been forced to leave their homes, and schools have been closed. there have been incidents like this in calabria for some time, perhaps due to the effects of climate change. the state of natural disaster will soon be declared and we hope that the european solidarity fund can be activated. i would like to express my sympathy - and i hope this parliament shares it - to all the people, including those in the neighbouring towns that have suffered damage.
mr president, in the past few weeks i have been in chisinau, moldova. i attended a conference organized by the minister of culture on the integration of moldova into europe, particularly as regards culture. i have greatly appreciated the great desire for growth, especially through a series of initiatives, ranging from the construction of infrastructure, roads, electricity networks and networks of all kinds, to vocational training for all trades, to professional updating for other professions. the moldovan people are very interested in joining europe. the government is working towards genuine integration with the european union in the near future. all right for now the attention of europe ..... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i consider the question of the containers lost at sea, which is being discussed today, to be very important, since it raises a question of extraordinary importance, especially for the economy of the coastal areas of the union. i therefore believe that the european commission should work towards setting up an insurance fund to cover any damage caused by the release of substances, sometimes dangerous, from containers lost at sea. in addition, the level of safety of navigation should be increased by more stringent legislation on the control of loading operations, which also prevents illegal loading of toxic goods on board vessels. an insurance fund i've applied for on other similar occasions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur. in the area of the integrated maritime policy, we must move beyond the goodwill phase and give new impetus to a strategy which will be a driving force for growth and development in the european union, filling the huge gaps in the prevention of environmental disasters, the fight against climate change and pollution. this morning mr pirillo called parliament to mind about another catastrophic event that has occurred in recent days in the town of paola, in calabria. the commission will have to prove itself by acting not only with the instruments of governance but also by implementing timely legislative measures, drawing the appropriate lessons from past mistakes, which are often due to an overly sectoral approach. it is fully aware that this process is very complex, but we are in the midst of a difficult and demanding process which cannot tolerate a drop in attention and which requires adequate investment and mechanisms for participatory governance, both at interinstitutional level and in international cooperation for regional basins, including the mediterranean, which stands out for the complexity of its jurisdiction. it will therefore be essential to understand the management of the mediterranean basin as a common heritage for all the coastal states, based on the principle of res communis omnium. otherwise, the increasingly widespread practice of unilaterally declaring exclusive or similar economic zones in the mediterranean sea, in addition to being inconsistent with the united nations convention on the law of the sea, would undermine the idea of effective and shared governance. i would remind you that just a month ago this interpretation by libya led to a real armed attack on a european fishing vessel and it would be wrong to say that this is an italian-libyan affair.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr meissner for his report on the integrated maritime policy, and i agree with the rapporteur that we need to strengthen maritime transport and shipbuilding, protect coastal regions and encourage innovation and research. today, shipping plays a vital role in commerce. this is why cooperation between small and large ports facing the same sea basin should be encouraged, as this can facilitate more fluid trade. in addition, to ensure intermodality, investment is needed in port and back-port infrastructure, especially in ports that can be connected to european corridors. finally, i think it is important not to overlook another issue, namely port security. there is a need for a harmonisation of all security measures within all european ports in order to better protect maritime transport and to avoid unfair competition to the detriment of those ports which, in order to ensure greater security, have to bear greater costs.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the integrated maritime policy has a cross-cutting role: it takes into account a variety of aspects, from the environment to marine research. the integrated maritime policy does not take into account the control of the boundary lines of international territorial waters for illegal fishing and trespass. i hope that the funding for implementing this policy will take this seriously and help to strengthen controls by means of modern monitoring systems, including gmes services. the transversal aspect of the integrated maritime policy, i hope that the next financing will be guaranteed by the community budget and not by fisheries resources, which are used for specific actions. i would like to thank the rapporteur very much for this important dossier and hope that the commission and the council will fully support the requests we have made.
the rapporteur. - madam president, parliament has already expressed itself in favour of the aims of the regulation on several occasions. with today's vote in favour, european citizens will have the right to know where what they buy comes from. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied in a uniform manner. i thank the shadow rapporteurs, mr susta and mr rinaldi, and all those who have worked for the compromise, and i hope that the democratic deficit which european consumers have suffered up to now will finally be erased.
the rapporteur. - madam president, we ask that the words 'or commercial' in the second paragraph of article 19 be deleted to make the text clearer and more applicable.
madam president, i ask that we vote again on paragraphs 2 and 3 of paragraph 43 with the check.
madam president, i would just like to know whether the request is for referral to brussels or strasbourg, because i have heard two versions.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report by mrs brantner, since it is a text which first of all proposes the adaptation of european legislation to an important judgment of the court of justice on small arms. a text that calls for the eu to pay greater attention to civil society in the context of financing stability in non-european crisis contexts, although in my opinion the supervision of the european institutions, primarily the commission, should ensure what has not always happened, namely that the beneficiaries give a guarantee of political reliability. the report also calls on the commission to be more involved than in the past in the use of financial instruments for stability. our assembly, in which the peoples and citizens of europe are represented, must play a more participatory role in these matters, and the other community institutions must get used to the idea that a parliament must be informed of expenditure decided by an executive; it is not just about the goodness of individual action, but about the democratic nature of the european political system as a whole.
in writing. the european continent has been shaped by long and bloody conflicts, which have finally found a way out thanks to the institutions within which we operate. it is therefore up to us to take the first step towards a sense of responsibility in the use of force in international conflicts. and even when it is necessary, the present state of our civilization requires surgical methods rather than broad-ranging. in believing in this cultural model, we can only set an example for others by showing that it is not the different economic capacity that must make the difference in the resolution of disputes, but a set of instruments which always and in any case put human life first, and which allow violence to be used only in extreme cases and mainly to protect the lives and strategic interests of the european population. it is not a question of taking a position a priori, but of adhering to a consistent and rigorous line of conduct, in which military capability is only a deterrent but never becomes a means of distorting the nature of the european union and of demonstrating a different system of values from that which is proclaimed.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report by mr gay mitchell on the establishment of a financing instrument for development cooperation. the adoption of the mitchell report will enable non-governmental organizations operating in developing countries to benefit from tax advantages. the adoption of these procedures will give the european parliament a greater say in the strategic financing decisions to be taken by the european commission and will provide a clearer definition of the rules for implementing the european union's development policy.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's vote brought two important legislative instruments into line with the treaty of lisbon. the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a regulation on the establishment of a european union agency for fundamental rights (fra) and a regulation on the establishment of a european union agency for fundamental rights (fra). technical amendments were proposed to enable the costs of taxes and charges relating to the financing of joint actions in these areas to be paid from the budget of the two instruments. until now, there has been no derogation from the principle that such costs are not eligible. i would like to conclude by stressing that these changes have a strong practical impact, as they will allow the eidhr and dci projects to be implemented with greater flexibility than at present.
in writing. - i support this report because i firmly believe that the indication of origin based on a clear and effective criterion is a necessary information for european consumers who must be able to choose to buy a product knowing its origin. the indication of origin is indicative of many other factors, which are equally fundamental and relate to the state or states in which the processing operations are carried out. i believe that the european union must take a step forward in ensuring stronger protection for european consumers.
in writing. the european parliament, which has always defended the differences, cultures and traditions of individual countries, considers that the regulation on the compulsory indication of the origin of products is a necessary instrument of clarity, capable of placing european consumers on the same level as consumers of our trading partners. it is also a means of improving the development of trade relations and traditional economies. i am convinced that this proposal is in line with the aim of giving consumers the right information so that they can exercise their freedom of choice in their purchases. for many years we have clearly stated our desire to put the consumer and his rights at the centre of the political and commercial proposal, believing that it is the rules which can make the global market better serve its function, namely to make development in the world stronger and more homogeneous. we regret that the council has not yet reached a common position. on the contrary, we have spoken of the need for clear legislation, with certain rules, which can finally protect our producers and our consumers, as is the case in the rest of the world.
in writing. - thanks to the pressure that the italian government has rightly been putting on it for years, a very important proposal has finally reached parliament which will be of great help, especially to consumers: they will be better informed about the geographical origin of certain categories of products. at the same time, europe is aligning its legislation with that of its most influential trading partners. the aim is to ensure a level playing field between european producers and those in third countries (the united states, japan and canada) which, like the above countries, are at the forefront of such measures. it will now be much more difficult for imported goods to contain misleading or even false indications of origin. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced and enthusiastic about my vote in favour. the report by mrs muscardini is a fundamental report for the european economy and consumers and a measure that the entire production and manufacturing chain has been waiting for for too long. these are not protectionist measures, but rather provisions to safeguard the health and freedom of our consumers and of the eu's strategic productive sectors. the regulation brings our legislation into line with that of our major trading partners such as the united states, canada, china and australia. european citizens have the right to know where the products they buy come from in the same way as other consumers around the world. through this regulation, we have the possibility to give consumers that right, even though the scope of the regulation is limited to certain categories of goods.
in writing. - this report sees us as a positive force because we cannot think of not protecting european entrepreneurs who choose to continue producing in the union, guaranteeing employment and welfare. the rules on indicating the origin of the product are fully in line with what the united states, canada, japan and india already do and with the full implementation of the rules on transparency and consumer protection referred to in many directives already adopted. for example, i would mention the different but interesting case, for the purposes of the choice we are about to make, of unfair competition for gold products coming from japan, which are subject to a duty of 3.5% and which, once they arrive in europe and are simply finished, are marketed under a european brand. on the other hand, gold products exported from the eu to china are subject to a duty of 30%. the problem with this text is that there are only a few categories of products covered by the current proposal for a regulation. our group has tabled a number of amendments to include other categories immediately. at the italian level, work is under way on a text which would go a long way towards making the mark of origin compulsory.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the indication of the country of origin of certain products imported from third countries. with this vote i wanted to underline the commitment of the european parliament to promoting european industry, whose competitiveness must be protected and enhanced. the right of european citizens to know the origin of the products they buy will also be guaranteed. however, i do not think that excluding qualified and recognised sectors of production with a long tradition and a long history, as has happened with eyewear, is part of the policy of the european union.
in writing. the own-initiative report we voted on today is a good summary of the various political points of view and contains many proposals for improving the standardisation system. it is a very technical and complex subject, but standards are relevant to our daily lives. most of the objects we use every day meet very specific standards. from a political and economic point of view, the alliance between community legislation and standardisation has proved decisive for the free movement of goods and has contributed to the elimination of barriers to free trade within the european single market by harmonising technical standards. the current system works quite well, but needs some improvements, especially in terms of governance. in particular, i am concerned about smes, which must be able to participate actively in the formulation of standards without incurring excessive costs and representation shortcomings. the european commission will present its proposal for a revision of the system in the first half of next year. our work will continue to improve the european technical standardisation process for the benefit of our markets, our businesses and european consumers.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have given my full support to the report on the future of european standardization, aware of its importance and its ability to contribute to the creation of a level playing field for all market players. the report by mr kožušník is intended to make a decisive contribution to the debate on the forthcoming revision of the european standardisation system. we are now aware that it is impossible to exploit the full potential of the single market without the support of a modern standardisation process. and that is why we are sending the commission a message today that does not aim at a complete overhaul of the system - that it does not require radical changes - but that shows the intention to maintain the many positive elements, to which we must add new ones, in order to find the right balance between the european, the national and the international dimensions. the report also encourages the promotion of effective participation in the standardisation process by all stakeholders, in particular representatives of smes and all those representing the public interest, including consumers. in conclusion, i believe that today an important first step has been taken, which is useful in underlining the need for concrete action to make european standardisation meet the economic needs of the eu citizens.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have voted in favour of the kožušník report. the report contains many good proposals and guidelines for the european commission and is a good summary of the different points of view. it is not necessary to change radically the current system which is working well, but some improvements can be made, especially in terms of governance. i believe that the standardisation system must remain private and voluntary and based on the principle of national management, but also that the public interest must play a more active role in the process, with concrete and effective participation. it is also essential to ensure the proper representation of smes, especially at national level in technical committees, where they have no language and cost barriers.
in writing. - i am in favour of the report as it aims to review the european standardisation system in order to strike the right balance between the european and the national dimensions. the report sets out important guidelines for pursuing regulation that is conducive to innovation, stimulating business competitiveness and interoperability, ensuring product safety and environmental protection and removing barriers to trade. in addition, it is important to recognise the role of national standardisation bodies within the regulatory system as a whole, in order to ensure greater regulatory harmonisation with the eu's trading partners.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information and communication networks, and for the establishment of a european network of information and communication networks. the european parliament rightly strongly supports the territorial integrity of the republic of moldova and stresses the need for the eu to play a more decisive role in finding a solution to the transnistria issue. the resolution correctly analyses the steps that the republic of moldova must take to move more decisively and credibly towards the objectives that the european union requires of any potential member state.
in writing. − with this report, we welcome the integrated maritime policy package proposed in 2009 by the european commission, because we believe it represents an ambitious cross-sectoral strategy for economic development, a high level of employment and environmental protection of coastal regions and marine sectors. we therefore call on the member states to extend the mandate of emsa for maritime inspections and to regulate offshore oil extraction activities in europe following the recent natural disaster in the gulf of mexico. we share the coordinated and cooperative approach with third countries in maritime surveillance, with the aim of creating a common system aimed at sharing information and integrating the different national coast guard services. the european parliament also intends to intensify research and development efforts in the use and application of renewable energy sources; the commission has also proposed to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: we therefore welcome the creation of the atlas of the seas and the maritime forum and propose the creation of a european-level marine research institute, with the emodnet data observation network becoming operational.
in writing. the meissner report is a balanced text, taking account of a number of important factors and issues. maritime policy is one of the most important sources of community revenue. just to give you some figures: the eu's maritime transport sector accounts for 40% of its gross domestic product and 40% of intra-community trade. moreover, 95% of its exports to non-eu countries are transported by sea. the report focuses on a few key points: the commission will also be supporting the development of a european maritime policy, including the establishment of appropriate maritime governance structures at national and regional level; coordinated and cross-border maritime spatial planning; maritime surveillance to protect the member states and the eu; safeguarding the marine environment; developing a strategy for sustainable coastal and island tourism; promoting the already leading european shipbuilding industry and maritime transport to achieve the ambitious goal of 'green shipping'. in view of the above, i could only vote in favour. communication and integration of the various sectors covered by maritime policy must and must be made to 'speak' for a whole range of reasons linked to efficiency, competitiveness and also to respect and protection of the marine environment.
in writing. − while there is no doubt that maritime policy needs to be integrated into the european union, given that maritime activities account for 40% of the eu's gdp, it is also right to regulate maritime activities in a way that takes account of non-eu competitors. too often, the rules on fisheries, tourism, transport and environmental protection in the sector have been developed separately and without taking into account the risks of unfair competition from third countries. for example, extending too strict emission limits to all coastal areas in europe can create distortions of competition. other texts on the subjects discussed have been discussed and approved by parliament and undoubtedly require integrated coordination, such as maritime surveillance, which is essential to control the illicit activities that often occur off the coasts of europe, ranging from the trafficking of counterfeit goods to smuggling, the transport of prohibited substances and illegal fishing.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report on the integrated maritime policy concerns an important sector of the european economy. maritime activities are an important source of income for the union, both in terms of gdp and in terms of trade, both internal and external. i think it is appropriate to focus on a few issues. firstly, the report states that future strategies in this area will focus on the specificity of the sea basins, and i think it is very important to take account of regional peculiarities as well. the new maritime policy also focuses on the development of safe shipping and offers great opportunities for the future of the european shipping industry. our seas must continue to be a growth engine, and for this reason i think it is essential that the development of an integrated maritime policy ensures greater coherence between the regulations governing the different maritime sectors, and at the same time safeguards the marine environment.
in writing. the european union is based on a system of values with which latin american countries have made significant progress in recent years. such progress certainly merits further incentives under the eu's trade policy. if we add to this the linguistic and cultural links which history has left us, we have the opportunity to contribute as much as possible to the economic and social development of these countries, however fragile their situation may be. it is also useful for both sides to take account of the main factors determining the political developments in these countries and to take steps to avoid any deviations which would harm the states and ourselves. the strengthening of trade relations can only be welcomed, provided that development policies are monitored to continue to provide an incentive for improvement.
in writing. - with the exception of amendment no 32 on which the ppe has asked for a separate vote and on which we are voting against, the report as a whole is to be approved, because it provides a useful view of the situation as regards our relations with latin america. the european union-latin america summit in madrid on 18 may gave a strong impetus to the development of relations between the two sides. a relationship that grows stronger every year. neither side can ignore trade relations with the other, although of course these must lead to concrete results and an improvement in the living conditions of our peoples.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is important to send a signal to the commission of the will of this parliament to strengthen ties with latin america even further. south america, for a whole series of historical, social and economic reasons, has many similarities with europe. trade relations have always been excellent, but they must also be strengthened and supported in the light of the new requirements of both continents. the importance of certain states which were formerly considered developing countries must not be overlooked, since they are now genuine world economic powers. on the basis of all this, i believe that europe must continue to play its role as the preferred trading partner for all the countries of the region, as a leader and as a privileged point of reference.
in writing. - this report welcomes us as it puts the emphasis on strengthening the links between the eu and the countries of latin america and the caribbean. the european union's clear objective is to act as an economic and commercial player on the international scene, outperforming the united states and china, which are partners in the latin american market. few sectors benefit from these trade relations. 85% of imports into the lac countries are industrial products, while 40% of exports to the eu are commodities. in the medium to long term, trade relations should be stepped up in accordance with clear and transparent rules.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent days the veneto region of italy has been struck by severe natural disasters, particularly in the provinces of vicenza, padua and verona. these were catastrophic floods that affected some 500,000 people in different ways and caused hundreds of millions of euros in damage. the tragedy has brought all sectors of production, small and medium-sized enterprises and various sectors to their knees. i call on my colleagues and the european institutions to do everything possible to support these populations and to find solutions to this catastrophe, within the limits of the rules laid down by the european solidarity fund of the structural funds. i am only mentioning - albeit on a completely different subject - the fact that our country, italy, today has another reason to weep, namely the collapse of pompeii. i would just like to mention it here to emphasize the relevance and importance of this and the need for europe to look at these things too.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i refer to a passage in commissioner de gucht's speech on international development cooperation. we know how important it is for the achievement of the millennium development goals. reducing the disparities between rich and poor countries is not only a moral imperative, but also helps to resolve the causes of conflict and international disputes and to improve the quality of life in large areas of the world. the call in this motion for a resolution for the industrialized countries to contribute 0.7% of gdp by 2015 is therefore acceptable, but further steps are needed for the aid to be effective. coordination between europe and the united states in aid policy is necessary to avoid overlapping of assistance in different geographical areas. best practices in project implementation need to be better identified, which must meet the needs of the recipients, not the donors. good governance in the countries receiving aid policy is essential to increase the effectiveness of intervention and to avoid the waste of valuable resources through corruption, incompetence and negligence. the last point is the coherence between development cooperation policy and trade policy. for example, in agriculture and fisheries it is not sensible to finance economic development projects on the one hand and close the door to products from third world countries on the other. the doha agreement will be a major step forward in this important area.
(the speaker begins his speech without a microphone) ... with which the new giants of the world travel, the transatlantic remains in my opinion to this day the most developed and most efficient economic area on the planet. it is true that there is a widespread, and in many respects understandable, rush to trade agreement, for example with countries like china. i think, however, that it should not be overlooked that the relationship between europe and the united states is by far the bond that we must cherish more than any other and preserve almost jealously. this is a consideration borne out of european and american history. it is written in the common love for democracy, peace, rights, the market economy. accelerating the process of strengthening transatlantic economic integration is essential to promote global development based on a set of values whose aim is to achieve a level of well-being acceptable to all the peoples of the world, in accordance with a fair and effective multilateralism that will lay the foundations for a more democratic and therefore freer world order. i therefore appeal to those who are now managing the european union's foreign policy. over the years, we have seen how american leadership, whoever the president was, has always had a huge weight in global transatlantic decisions. it is time for us to take matters into our own hands, with the support of 500 million people and a new and more solid institutional framework which must give us the ability to abandon the temptation to hide behind the american giant and take the fate of our peoples into our own hands, perhaps by proposing to our american friends to find out what the position is on the european union's single seat at the un.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners and council members, relations between the european union and the united states must be based on the highest possible guarantee of security for the success of cooperation. we must eliminate all the problems we have within ourselves, within the european union. visas for citizens of the four countries which are part of the 27 are a serious restriction of freedom. last week we put the problem to the canadian authorities with a delegation from this parliament and it seems that they are taking care of it. we have a very important trade relationship with the usa, which strengthens our euro and puts the european union in a position to compete with the big markets of china, japan and india, and we have also noticed a cautious attitude in canada towards the us and mexican markets. to engage with the us on climate change, on sustainable energy, on the global market is a good place to start the discussion.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me first answer a number of specific questions which have been put, and start with climate change. the new majority in the us house of representatives is likely to limit president obama’s room for manoeuvre even further. we need to make sure that the us does not back-track on its copenhagen commitments and we must encourage them to contribute to a successful outcome of the cop 16 meeting in cancún. in the meantime, we can advance on concrete issues, such as fast-start finance, reduce emissions from deforestation, and facilitate adaptation to climate change for poor and developing countries. these can proceed without us domestic legislation, as can biological research work on clean technologies. there was also a question on the us visa-waiver programme and the fact that a number of eu member states – bulgaria, cyprus, poland and romania – are still not admitted to this programme. we attach much importance to their admission and we will continue working with our us counterparts on resolving this issue. in relation to the introduction of the esta fee for travellers under the visa-waiver programme, the commission has repeatedly voiced concern that these new requirements are inconsistent with the commitment of the us to facilitate transatlantic mobility and that they constitute an additional burden for european citizens travelling to the us. we need to make sure that work on security issues, such as pnr, goes hand in hand with facilitating transatlantic travel for legitimate travellers. regarding the question on the wikileaks documents, we are unable to comment on the information contained in the leaks at present. however, as a matter of principle, the eu is firmly committed to upholding the absolute prohibition of torture and cruel, inhumane and degrading treatment. this is all we can say at this moment in time. there was a question from ms quisthoudt on the possibility of a free trade agreement with the us. we are not considering this at this moment in time, ms quisthoudt, because, as regards the eu-us trade relationship, an earlier study conducted by dg trade on non-tariff measures shows that non-tariff barriers remain the major obstacle in eu-us trade relations and concludes that the gdp of the eu and the us would increase by about eur 160 billion and exports would grow by 2.1% and 6.1% respectively if half of the non-tariff measures and regulatory differences were removed. in fact, there are not that many tariffs any more between the us and the eu. that said, existing barriers are often very difficult to remove but this is precisely why, in the tec, we are pushing for early and upstream cooperation, for example before we adopt regulations in important areas, in particular emerging markets and new technologies. regarding the tec and what its agenda might be, we are currently working with our us counterparts to fix the final agenda for the next tec meeting, bearing in mind the input from advisers. the main themes we are looking at are innovation and emerging technologies, and strategies for greening our economies and building the transatlantic market place. under these themes we will have opportunities to discuss a wide range of issues including e-health, the interoperability of electronic health records, secure trade, mutual recognition of authorised trade standards and overall approach to regulation, the innovation action partnership and exchange of information on consumer product safety. we will also discuss joint responses to economic challenges. furthermore, at the end of november, as was asked by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i will discuss standards. i believe the precise date is 29 november. the last question was on the 100% scanning of inbound container freight. we are concerned about the us requirements that, by july 2012, all us-bound maritime containers will have to be scanned before being placed on a vessel at a foreign port. we believe that this requirement will not bring proven security benefits and will be a barrier to smooth trade. for these reasons the commission does not envisage the implementation of 100% scanning in eu ports. the us homeland security secretary, janet napolitano, has announced plans to push back the july 2012 deadline for 100% scanning by two additional years. the commission is hopeful that this delay will lead the us congress to review its policy and favour a risk-based approach to supply chain security. the main challenges for the eu over the next year suggest many synergies and opportunities for cooperation with the us: dealing with the economic crisis; governance, restoring growth and jobs by accelerating reforms, building an area of freedom, justice and security, and pulling our weight on the global stage. we have a number of important tasks ahead as we look to the forthcoming eu-us summit and beyond. one of them is building a more open and outward-looking eu-us relationship that would take into account the full scope of relations that both the eu and the us are building with emerging powers such as china, india, russia and brazil. on the economy, jobs and growth are at the heart of the discussion. we will compare notes on the g20 results, especially financial and banking reforms and the need to deliver a global trade deal, and look for eu-us added-value there. at the same time we need to focus more on delivering the full potential of the transatlantic market. my aim will be to refocus the tec on a transatlantic agenda for jobs, growth and innovation. with the support of the eu-us senate leaders, i will look to move forward on that at the forthcoming tec meeting on 17 december.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, after the remarks of my colleague karel de gucht on the general agreement and relations with the united states, let me concentrate on the future umbrella agreement on data protection. it is very clear that we need to share data in order to fight terrorism and organised crime and, at the same time, we need to preserve the rights of citizens to data protection. trying to achieve both in equilibrium will be the content of those negotiations. as i have already told you, on 26 may this year the commission put forward a proposal for a negotiation mandate. we are looking now to the council to have this mandate agreed upon, hopefully at the beginning of december, so that we can start with real negotiations. i absolutely agree with what has been said in this house. we need to concentrate on legal security in an umbrella agreement instead of – and i quote a member of this parliament – ‘fire-fighting on each individual data-sharing agreement’. if we, the united states and europe, manage to set common standards, then those common standards will sooner or later become world standards. we have to show that those standards are built on our values of justice and fundamental rights and of the right to reciprocity, both of which have to be very clearly put on the transatlantic agenda. the question of individuals’ rights in such an agreement has also been raised. what the commission has put on the table would mean the following for our european citizens and for the citizens in the united states: enforceable rights for individuals, such as the right to access personal data that has been collected about them and the right to rectify and erase this data, administrative and judicial redress, regardless of nationality or place of residence, and compensation for any damages suffered. the effective application of these rights would be ensured by the monitoring and controlling of these data protection standards by independent public authorities and, in this context, a non-discrimination clause should also be included to ensure that all personal data is protected regardless of a person’s nationality or place of residence, bearing in mind at all times that we need to strike a balance between rights and security and also, at least in my view, not to allow any discrimination on racial grounds. in order not to allow this, the commission will certainly need the help of parliament. i have heard that you want to establish, or you have already established, specific new bilateral relations between parliament and the united states congress. i think that this will also be very important in order to raise understanding of such data protection agreements on both sides of the atlantic, so here you could be of much help in the course of the negotiations.
acting president of the council. i can be very brief, mr president, because i can of course agree with the words of the vice-president of the commission, mrs reding, that it was a good debate and that the next stage is 2 and 3 december. the council hopes that it will be able to complete the mandate so that the commission can finally enter into the full debate and start the negotiations. it is an opportunity for better cooperation between europe and the united states. it's an opportunity to strike a balance between security and privacy. it's an opportunity to bring fragmented matter together. it is an opportunity, indeed, to translate an explicit request from the european parliament into a solid framework agreement. i believe that we are armed with this debate today to confirm the mandate to the commission from the council, assuming that the commission will also respond at appropriate times and that we will see the debate on the concrete interpretation, on the enforceability of rights, evolve further in a feedback manner; i hope that the commission will soon be able to produce good results, hopefully after the council meeting on 2 and 3 december. i thank you for this debate.
i have received four motions for resolutions. in accordance with article 110 (2) of the regulation. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 11 november 2010. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. as the exchange of data between the eu and the us is increasingly necessary and frequent in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, it is also necessary to define a general and shared legal framework for the protection of personal data. this framework must define a protection equivalent to that enjoyed by european citizens within the union. the commission's negotiating mandate is therefore going in the right direction. as regards the scope of application, this legal framework should also apply to existing bilateral agreements. it is desirable that the council should adopt the mandate as presented and that parliament should be kept fully and promptly informed of any developments in the negotiations, knowing that it has the final say on the future agreement.
the agenda includes statements by the council and the commission on the eu's external strategy on passenger name record (pnr) data.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, minister, there is no doubt that, even after hearing the significant contributions which have been made by my colleagues so far, the need to reach an agreement in a reasonably short time to define this framework agreement on pnr is a strong stimulus from parliament. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of drawing up a report on the situation in the european union, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work on this matter.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me natural, as a first step, to thank the negotiators, and in particular mr gauzès, together with the shadow rapporteurs, for the excellent work that has been done on the directive on alternative investment fund managers, finally ensuring that funds have a single rule throughout the european union. these funds are responsible for managing a substantial volume of assets invested in europe and can exert a significant influence on markets. their impact is largely beneficial, but their activities can also contribute to spreading risks throughout the financial system. the new common provisions replace the current 27 different national systems and enhance the opportunities of the single market. alternative funds, regardless of their domicile, therefore have a european passport. in addition, the single european regime will prevent funds from taking advantage of the laws of states offering more favourable regulatory regimes. in the past, this practice has entailed considerable speculative risks for the whole of the european union. i also agree with the introduction of the rules on so-called asset stripping and the ban on short-term short selling, two points which were not included in the european commission's initial proposal. finally, it is essential, in order to avoid distortions of competition, that a third country fund should be able to operate within the european union under the same conditions as eu funds.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commissioner and i hope he will take account of the fact that there is no european population at the service of the market, but that it is the market that serves the citizens - despite what those who have gone before me have said - and that the market must therefore respond to the needs of the citizens. i speak for one of the four engines of europe, lombardy. small and mediumsized enterprises in our country mean a few million jobs. i hope that the ambitious project we have read under the signature of mr barnier will not run counter to what has been proposed by some of his colleagues in the commission itself. i am thinking of the abolition of duties on textiles from pakistan, which would cause the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs in lombardy and throughout the rest of europe. we're available to help with the publicity. i don't know if four months is enough. i am thinking of the veneto companies that are under water these days and i do not know whether they will be able to get involved sufficiently in what is an ambitious project which i hope we can improve and cooperate on as efd and as lega nord.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the single market is a fundamental strategic objective for europe, to be pursued with renewed political determination. the achievements of these years are exceptional, but we must now look to the future. europe is not the same as it was in 1985. the new realities that have emerged require new answers. the current european and international environment, characterised by globalisation of trade, technological developments and the emergence of new players on the world stage, calls for a strong relaunch of the single market, striking the right balance of protection between all the actors involved, namely businesses, consumers and workers. the proposed document is a good start, but it is now necessary to promote and publicize it as much as possible. among the many objectives set out in the document, i would like to stress the importance of three aspects. first of all, i fully agree with the need to strengthen the regulatory framework for standardization through its future revision. the full realization of the internal market requires standardization, which has proved decisive in recent years for the free movement of goods and has contributed to the elimination of barriers to free trade. equally important is the coordination of national tax policies, with the identification of a taxable base. my commitment over the coming months will be to disseminate this important document as widely as possible and to engage in dialogue with all the actors concerned so that a strategy can be adopted that responds to the needs and expectations of businesses and our citizens.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully agree with the content and timing of the small business act. the single market is the most integrated form of the common market, being more focused on removing physical (border), technical (standard) and fiscal barriers between member states. it is the key to integration and sustainable growth in europe. the current economic crisis has once again underlined the importance of the single market in making the european project a success. it also requires renewed political determination to resist the temptations of economic nationalism and to develop its full potential. the crisis has increased the risk of misuse of state aid to help the most important national companies. the solution to reviving the whole european economy lies rather (and this is the recipe for the single market) in removing the remaining obstacles to the free movement of goods, persons and services, and to equal treatment of economic agents and citizens throughout the union.
author of the book. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission proposal contained in the communication 'the innovation union', adopted on 6 october, is an integral part of the eu 2020 strategy. the initiative aims to be a concrete, effective and sustainable response to the main problems of our society. among the many actions proposed and the various objectives pursued by the commission in its attempt to create a genuine innovation union, one of the most innovative elements is the so-called innovation partnerships. in order to achieve the objectives set, it is necessary to choose the right partnerships. to this end, the commission has identified a number of priority challenges that our society will have to face in the coming years and decades. the european parliament has chosen to express its position on this new development in the resolution i am the rapporteur for on behalf of the epp. after a short period of negotiation, all the rapporteurs from the various political groups signed a resolution, so there are no problems to be reported. i would like to stress how crucial our contribution has been in ensuring that the two partnerships to be launched after the pilot initiative on healthy ageing relate to smart cities, with the aim of supporting cutting-edge experiments in various european cities to achieve the 20-20-20 objectives, and non-energy raw materials, since a concrete response must be given to the big and difficult problems affecting society in this field. in the coming months, a working group within the commission will decide on the details of governance, funding, selection criteria and budget of the initiatives to be launched under the first partnership.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at a time of public financial constraints, investing in innovation can be the key to europe's recovery from the crisis. europe has been a leader in innovation in the past. in fact, many of the world-changing innovations, such as mobile telephony, were started right here on our continent. the great technological potential and human capital of europe must be exploited with strong coordination between the actions of the european union and those of the member states to avoid duplication and to optimise investment. a more strategic and coordinated approach to innovation is needed, and technology partnerships are a good tool for this. i would like to ask the council what action it intends to take to make partnerships more dynamic and how they can become a driving force for the real economy.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to express my sincere and sincere thanks to the rapporteur, who has used his expertise and his severity well, assuring the member states that the opening up of the free movement of taiwanese and the abolition of visas will not cause problems for the european union. i am not so convinced of what has been done recently with regard to countries such as bosnia-herzegovina and albania. now there is even talk of turkey abolishing visas. i am not convinced that the commission and parliament have done their job well in ensuring the safety of european citizens in those situations. i therefore welcome the report and the vote of the european parliament, which will certainly be positive. history is not water. anyone of a certain age remembers what was once called nationalist china, which was a flag of freedom, for decades. the west must not forget those who defended the principles of freedom when there were threats elsewhere. even now, on the subject of human rights, i think that a clear distinction should be made. the chinese from taiwan are therefore welcome here in padania as well, as they are an important and qualified presence already present in our territories, and they clearly characterize the integration of their citizens into our society. unlike other countries, taiwan also has the merit of not exporting to the european union along with its goods socio-political policies which are contrary to the principles of freedom, protection of human rights and respect for ethnic and religious minorities. taiwanese nationals are therefore welcome in the european union and in padania.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i simply wanted to draw the attention of the president of the european parliament to a judgment delivered a few days ago. this is certainly a matter for the commissioner, to whom i extend my greetings. it is a very serious judgment in my view, because it puts the significance of a very important european union directive on terrorism into perspective. i do not think that we can accept a broad approach to protecting citizens who are seeking asylum and to grant the right of asylum to members of terrorist organisations. if this principle were to be adopted, as it has been in this very serious decision of the european court, we would give many terrorists the opportunity to benefit from protections they do not deserve. there are too many deaths in europe from acts of terrorism to allow a situation like this. i therefore call on the commission to amend the directive in order to avoid any extended and indecent interpretation of the indication that the european union has rightly given in the fight against terrorism.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thirty years ago morocco denied for many years that there was a war with the sahrawi people and today it is denying that there is a disproportionate repression against the same people. yet in western sahara there are the dead and wounded of a people who claim only the right to live freely in their own land. morocco has basically closed its borders to anyone who might witness these events. no information and no deputies. a french member of parliament and our colleague mr meyer were denied access. europe is just sitting back. there is no sign of the commission making us subordinate to the mediation of the un and continuing to fail as it has for the last thirty years. there is no position taken by mrs ashton, who is responsible for foreign policy. we must respond by taking a position from parliament. we must react to morocco by stopping all initiatives on trade agreements, starting with the renewal of fisheries agreements.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me start by thanking and congratulating mr mann for his very good report. it presents a very thorough and comprehensive analysis of the challenges that we are facing in this demographic field. the commission is very pleased that the report highlights strategies to allow member states and the european union to prepare for population ageing and how we can cope with these consequences in a better way. in your report you provide a wealth of practical solutions in this respect: the senior actions programme, the european youth guarantee, the fifty-plus employment pack initiative, the age management initiative, the intergenerational tandem initiative, etc. it also makes quite a lot of interesting proposals for defining and applying the concept of intergenerational solidarity, because this is, as you also said, a goal for the european union following the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. as you know, the commission has already adopted two major initiatives in this area: our green paper on pensions, which will be followed next year by a white paper outlining future activities, and our proposal – based on your proposal, mr mann – to designate 2012 as the european year for active ageing. the commission will soon be presenting its third european demography report, which will outline the latest population trends. it will also show how the economic crisis has affected the member states in terms of their ability to prepare for population ageing. the next decade will be one of profound demographic change for the european union. the large cohorts born during the baby boom are approaching retirement, while new cohorts arriving on the labour market are much smaller. the younger generations of europeans are also much more likely to come from different migration backgrounds, for instance, and this transformation brings challenges for policy makers in the member states. it will prove a big hurdle to achieving the europe 2020 goals if we do not succeed in mobilising our underutilised demographic potential. this calls for an effort to promote active ageing, to improve the labour market situation of young people, to integrate migrants and their descendants better and also to promote labour migration and to facilitate the reconciliation of work and caring responsibilities. in all this gigantic work, we on the commission side look forward to working actively with the european parliament.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the history of mankind, the great changes within societies have been determined by the development of two variables: the demographic and the religious factor. in our time these two factors are dangerously intersecting. while there has long been talk of a 'clash of civilizations' and of the importance of europe being an example of civil coexistence between seemingly opposed cultures, the progressive ageing of the european population and the decline in births are also bringing us face to face with the need to reconsider the productivity factor. as long as our elderly have to finance our young people who can't find work and are fewer and fewer, there are only two possible ways: we must not forget that the european community is a vital partner in the world economy. only if the two generations become each other's resource and work together on a common development project can we finally begin to speak of a european growth process. i would invite the rapporteur, you, the president, and you, ladies and gentlemen, to consider a hearing on a new european policy of economic development based on generational input, to maximise the contribution of young and old to the growth of the union.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to congratulate mrs carvalho for this very comprehensive report. she draws attention to major concerns within the field of european research: the question of the complexity of the rules for the beneficiaries and the very heavy administrative burden. in april this year, the commission adopted a communication on this subject, presenting a long list of short- and long-term options for simplification. this triggered a very important interinstitutional debate. the commission is very grateful that parliament has dealt with this matter with such priority. the commission is also very grateful that the report supports the majority of the proposals, and even contains some of parliament’s own, which are very interesting. similar support was given by the council and, on the basis of this very broad interinstitutional consensus, we should now turn to action. we are fully committed to achieving simplification and adhering to the simplification principles as stated in your report: simplicity, transparency, legal certainty, consistency, excellence and, as mr audy said, a more trust-based approach towards our research institutions is, of course, an important guideline for managing the activities. some of the proposals in your report and in the council conclusions can be implemented within the current framework. the commission’s services are now reaching out for solutions which can be swiftly implemented. we are considering solutions for broadening the acceptance of average cost methodologies, and for a more flexible approach on interest on pre-financing and a lump sum option for the personnel costs of owner-managers of smes. we also take very seriously the concerns on inconsistent interpretation of rules and procedures by the different services when implementing the fp7. we are working intensely on implementing measures that ensure a more uniform interpretation and application of the rules. we will also work on further reducing delays in providing grants and payments. we must not forget that the more profound changes do require a revision of the financial regulation and its implementing rules. only then can we really remove some of the big constraints. the current control strategy for research expenditure has been designed to detect and correct errors so as to bring the residual error level down to below 2%. the commission agrees that this is costly and puts a great administrative burden both on the beneficiaries and on the commission. so a higher tolerable risk of errors, as supported in your report, could allow the commission to modulate the control effort, to optimise cost effectiveness and to balance the need for effective control with establishing a more trust-based relationship with researchers. thank you very much for the report and to everybody who has been involved with it. it has cleared the ground for very good and important work in the future.
in writing. mr president, in view of the mid-term evaluation of the 7th research framework programme and the preparation of future rules for the next fp, it is necessary to reflect and find solutions to remove some of the obstacles that make it difficult for interested parties to access community funding. to achieve a european economy based on knowledge and innovation, investment in research is necessary, allowing smes, universities, public research bodies and regional and local public authorities to benefit from the financial resources made available by the eu. unfortunately, access to research funding requires a high level of technical skill and a thorough knowledge of administrative and financial procedures, but it also has a tendency to favour 'results-based' projects, with a low risk tolerance, thus discouraging the introduction of projects with high innovation aspects. the consequences of this are to discourage private sector participation and reduce the world of research to unattractive scenarios, reducing europe's competitiveness in the global economy. i support the report's recommendations that the european commission should encourage a 'user-centred' approach that improves access to funding and guidance documents, which should be compiled in a handbook and translated into the official eu languages, and that instills greater trust in the scientific and business community.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that if we can talk today about a reduction in errors, it is because of the competence, autonomy and professionalism of the court of auditors and of this report to president caldeira. i believe that parliament, in addition to the commission, has played an important role in this improvement, and in particular the committee on budgetary control, which is very attentive to the issue of transparency and the effective and efficient use of public funds. however, we must see what needs to be done to improve, because there are still too many things that are wrong, particularly in some very sensitive areas such as agriculture and cohesion, with error rates in areas that are worrying because fraud often lurks, such as procurement and over-invoicing. i believe that we must reduce bureaucracy and unnecessary formalities and instead have a few clear rules, and thus say a very firm and determined no to all forms of fraud and to the sectors where corruption can be found. another important point is to strengthen the role of olaf, the anti-fraud office, in the fight against fraud and corruption. another aspect which we cannot but stress - we also learned this from a recent visit by the committee on budgetary control to italy - is that there is also a risk of heavy influence on public funds by organised crime and forms of corruption. so from this point of view the role of olaf can be fundamental alongside greater cooperation between the member states, the commission and parliament. as another absolutely fundamental aspect, i believe that the commission must strengthen its autonomy from the member states. i believe that, particularly in relation to those states where there have been serious errors - not minor errors - and very substantial fraud incidents for years, funds must be blocked to prevent such behaviour from being repeated. the credibility of the european parliament and the european institution is measured very much by the level of transparency and fairness with which public funds are spent. so i think we still have to work to improve from that point of view.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we are talking today about an interim report on a successful programme for economic recovery in the energy sector. we can report that in implementing the programme set out by the parliament and the council, we have taken 43 financing decisions to date - for gas projects, for electricity infrastructure projects, for offshore energy, for co2 capture, for storage - which means that approximately 98% of the total budget of eur 3.98 billion is being implemented 1:1 and the programme has therefore also had a high level of accuracy. there were few projects that were not feasible. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left behind. i also see in these pilot projects experimental possibilities for our activities in the field of energy efficiency, which will be a focus of my work over the next year. i thank mrs van brempt very warmly, i thank all the debating members, i thank the belgian presidency of the council, because we have worked hard on these issues in the last few weeks and we have something to present today that will certainly give impetus to our energy efficiency issues. in order to ensure that this amending regulation, which is now due to enter into force, will have a rapid effect, we have already made the necessary preparations in our departments. 146 million euros will flow over the next few days into projects that are important to all of you. we have partners - that was your choice - municipal, local, regional authorities close to the projects concerned. these local partners can ensure optimal use of: public buildings, private buildings, combined heat and power, district heating networks, decentralised renewable energy sources, environmentally friendly urban transport, local infrastructures such as smart grids, efficient street lighting, smart metering systems. so we're doing something that is going to be local and immediate and that can also be a benchmark for my future activities in smart cities. if you decide to do so today, our services will implement it immediately. i am sure that we will be able to report in march or april next year that our economic programme is working very well, both with large projects and with small decentralised projects, and that it is bringing us experience which will certainly be important for the next financial years. thank you again to everyone involved!
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i believe that the decision to use the few funds left over from the recovery plan launched in 2009 in a different way and to take this opportunity to launch a new principle, with the creation of an ad hoc fund, is far-sighted and in line with what has been said for a long time in this house but which is never implemented. we have seen some timid signals, but not yet actualized, in the marguerite fund. this is an indication for us and for the epp of the method to be followed for a wise use of the budget of the european union. the instrument is an ad hoc fund which intervenes in various ways such as loans, guarantees, equity or co-financing and which will be governed by a dedicated savings management company. the starting fund has a budget of 146 million and we did not understand why the door could not be kept open for the other residues due to the recovery plan. with a strong leverage effect through the eib, kfw, the savings and loan banks and other financial institutions, a substantial sum could be brought in and a strong impact could be had on the start-up of projects deemed to be economically and environmentally viable and of priority. in my view, the central element of the fund which will be set up later this year is that it can become a sort of virtuous pilot project for the future structuring of a wider energy fund to be appropriately included in the next financial perspective 2014-2020. this principle can be replicated in other areas, such as tens or etens. if i may, some concrete signals at this critical time of the unemployment emergency make us a little happier.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is not easy to find such unanimity in this parliament. that means that the work has been really excellent and that is something that should be acknowledged by mrs van brempt and all the other shadow members. it has been said that the instrument that is being born is very positive for various reasons. it is good because it is fast in procedures and timing; positive because it goes to highly qualified project categories; it is positive because it is aimed at urban contexts, that is, at local authorities who, with their concrete decisions, can really change the state of affairs and can improve the quality of the air, the quality of housing, the quality of urban transport; positive because it targets profitable projects and can therefore result in a return of resources; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not distorted. but in the face of all this, and taking up an objection made by many colleagues, including geier, turmes and cancian, i would say to the commissioner that the critical point will be implementation, the choice of financial intermediaries, the relationship with local authorities and the relationship with their financial difficulties. the commissioner, this instrument is a chance to open the way to other projects, to stabilize this instrument and to extend it to other sectors. the theme is crucial. we must not have what happened with the recovery plan and with the small and mediumsized enterprises that are still waiting for the 30 billion euro that this parliament and the commission decided on at the end of 2008.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank my colleague and rapporteur, mrs van brempt, for the excellent work she has done and for an agreement which finally allows us to free up important resources for the development of renewable energy and energy efficiency in the context of the challenge of green growth. the programme contains priorities which the member states should take into account, particularly in order to achieve the objective of competitively modernising our energy infrastructure. finally, i would like to emphasize what i consider to be the qualifying points of the criteria for access to finance by public authorities, in particular the commitment to work on multiannual strategies through a system of multi-level governance from the territories to local authorities to regional institutions and the institutions of the european union, also in the context of the rationalization of the available financial instruments. this is an important result for citizens and for small and medium-sized enterprises.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the present difficult economic and financial environment europe must continue to support projects in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy for a sustainable and socially competitive economy. the operation of the financial instrument for investing in decentralised projects should be improved, while respecting a geographical balance in order to promote a balanced recovery. this financial instrument should be mobilised immediately and targeted at projects with a local dimension for job creation in accordance with regulation (ec) no 663/2009. we need credit lines that can back up good local initiatives. the priority should be given to projects which also provide for technological innovation in order to increase the competitiveness of industry. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate action policy and to monitor the implementation of the union's climate action policy. i thank mrs van brempt for her distinguished work.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals. with that 146 million, we're going to a test lab together. first of all, thank you very much for fighting for the fact that it is not 114 million but 146 million and that the member states are prepared to go a little beyond their restrictive line. test lab: we're going to go in with four interesting questions. first question: how will we succeed in the field of energy efficiency? i would argue that along the three targets - for co2, for renewable energy and for energy efficiency - the 20% increase in energy efficiency will be the most difficult and complex challenge. it is not just a matter of national binding standards, but of concrete projects. in fact, we are now testing with this simple programme which projects are useful for building renovation, in the field of energy in general. i hope that in two or three years' time, the first evaluation of these projects for the next budgetary period will be based on good and bad experiences in energy efficiency. i want to say frankly that in two or three years we will certainly be smarter than today and we will have had good experiences and also made mistakes. the money is still well spent. secondly, the european union is entering into a direct partnership with the local authorities through this programme. this is not commonplace either. we see that the energy demand and consumption in public buildings, in private buildings with renovation possibilities, that is, with smart city ideas, can only be implemented by the eu towards the municipality, a direct contact where reality lives. thirdly, we must - and i hope this is the case - show with this programme that there is european added value for all. if we simply collect money from the member states and distribute it without any added value, we would be unnecessary. we must add value in terms of experience, efficiency and competence, and then this programme will give us a good argument in two years' time to show this programme in the budgetary discussions - a poker game between the commission, parliament and the member states - in order to get more money from the member states in the interests of all citizens in the european union. that means a test lab for more budget. this is a point of contention that will affect us all for the next two years. fourthly, a test laboratory in partnership with the structural banks (eib and kfw) and with private investors, with funds. this means a partnership beyond the commission's services with companies that are close to us, but which also need to prove that they can do more than just manage public money. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. it is not about the 146 million euros, it is about the four-fold test of our partnership with the municipalities, with the eib and kfw, with the topic of energy efficiency at the local level and with a proof that we are at the right level for more budgetary resources at the european level. in that sense, thank you. let's keep in touch. i'm sure in two years we'll all be much smarter than we are today. (applause from the centre)
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in january 2009, in response to the economic and financial crisis, the european commission proposed to reallocate part of unused european funding to support projects in the energy sector. the debate we are having today on the report amending regulation (ec) no 663/2009 is of particular importance: the proposal to use otherwise unused financial resources to support sectoral projects represents an opportunity in times of difficult access to finance. in my view, the european energy recovery plan, which aims to finance initiatives and projects in the field of energy efficiency, energy saving and renewable energy by supporting the investments of european public authorities, particularly in urban areas, can make a real contribution to stimulating the recovery of the european economy and creating job opportunities for young people. i welcome the energy efficiency measures in the building sector, which uses 40% of the eu's energy, and which would be a support for smes at both local and regional level. such aid would also help develop promising energy efficiency initiatives at the level of local authorities, which have suffered a significant reduction in budgetary revenues as a result of the recent crisis.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal health sector is not affected by the crisis. we expect that the commission's proposal on market instruments for the dairy sector, which will be presented shortly, will include proposals to limit the impact of price volatility on the agricultural sector as a whole. however, there are many actions we can take to send a concrete signal to european farmers. we believe that it would be very useful for the livestock sector, for example, to review the current ban on the use of animal meal for non-ruminants, for example in the poultry and fisheries sectors. as you know, this ban was introduced in the wake of the bse cases, but years later the scientific community now agrees that the ban can only be justified for ruminants. for monogastric animals, on the other hand, there is no danger to human health and the environment, so we expect that this ban can be replaced in order to give more scope for higher energy diets for these animals.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the volatility of cereal prices is having a serious impact on all sectors of the livestock industry, but also on consumers. the heat, the fires, the drought and the floods - as are happening now in italy - have blocked the export of cereals. to make matters worse, canada has reduced production following heavy rains this summer. not only has climate change affected prices, but speculation on international markets has also. grain producers who are waiting for a price increase wait to see their production and store it, with the consequent depletion of agricultural products. speculation and severe climate change have led to a sharp rise in the price of grain used as animal feed and to a subsequent rise in the price of meat. i believe that timely and targeted action by the commission is essential to deal with the volatility of agricultural prices through innovative market interventions in the new cap. the commission must prevent speculative practices in agriculture in order to preserve the activities of farmers and livestock farmers and to ensure that consumers have genuine products of high quality at fair prices.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to thank mrs garcía in particular for this initiative and would like to draw attention to the particular situation of mountain farming. in many areas of the european union, there are agricultural alternatives to livestock farming, but in the mountainous areas, there are not. if there are no scavengers, then many agricultural areas in the mountainous areas are simply useless and are abandoned. this not only reduces the economic opportunities in the mountain area, but also changes the landscape and ultimately reduces biodiversity. the dairy sector has a very special role to play in this, because it creates economic opportunities and income for livestock farming in the mountain areas and not only in the mountain areas. i therefore believe that we must pay particular attention to three things in the reform of agricultural policy. we must have a cap which takes account of mountain farming, including coupled contributions to mountain farmers. secondly, we need to continue to have a flexible second pillar, in which it is possible to give special support to livestock farms in mountain areas. and thirdly, we need a quality policy which takes special account of products from the mountain areas, including very special labelling, so that the added value of such products from mountain livestock farming can also be obtained on the market.
mr president, today's vote is an important step forward by the european union in the regulation of alternative investment funds. the directive requires fund managers to be registered and authorised and to comply with strict rules of conduct within the european union. it is the first time that this sector has been regulated and i believe that the document voted on has laid the foundations for achieving - i hope soon - a genuine single market for financial products. i would like to stress the important role of the european parliament, which has insisted on stronger rules for greater supervision of the financial industry which is thus - let me say this - becoming even more ethical. the lessons of the recent past, the financial crisis caused by excessive speculation in investment funds, should lead us to welcome this directive which gives greater guarantees of protection to citizens. i voted in favour of the compromise reached and i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur, mr gauzès, on the enormous amount of work he has done.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it suggests useful and interesting proposals to meet the demographic challenges of the future. the social policies of the member states must pay particular attention to young people, the real driving force of development and growth. the immediate integration of young people into the labour market and their continuing training must be encouraged, and their professional development must be encouraged. the family must also be protected by more incisive and concrete measures, because to forget the family is to renounce one of the essential components of society. i therefore stress the importance of paragraphs containing measures to promote the family. in addition, in order to be able to better and more effectively manage the effects of ageing, support should be given to the modernisation of social protection systems and in particular pension schemes. as spinelli said, 'making europe depends on you too', and now this is a real possibility.
mr president, facilitating access to the support system provided for by the framework research programmes means giving a strong boost to the competitiveness of the entire european production system. i am convinced that today's vote has made a significant contribution to achieving this essential objective, especially in the case of the small and mediumsized enterprises which form the backbone of the economy of all the member states. in fact, despite the high quality of their production, these firms often do not have easy access to the resources needed to raise their production standards even further. it is also worth pointing out, as the rapporteur has done, that the vote was timely, since it falls just short of the mid-term evaluation of the seventh framework programme and the preparation of the eighth. i would like to thank the rapporteur for her work.
mr president, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because for years now we have been witnessing frequent crises in europe affecting the livestock sector. the causes are diverse, including the decline in demand for sheepmeat and goatmeat, also due to large-scale imports of meat from third countries. but there are also indirect causes that have affected the livestock sector. i am referring to the problems of the dairy sector and the volatility of cereal prices, which has been the subject of heavy speculation. in view of the reform of the cap after 2013, it will be necessary to take a firm stance on this issue and to find the necessary measures to limit the impact of price volatility across the agricultural sector. i therefore call on the commission to develop more rapid instruments to deal rapidly with crisis situations within each single cmo.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, once again we are in this chamber to approve an exceptional appropriation within our own borders. i say this with regret, because this measure involves crises and a number of problems relating to the economy, the labour market, workers and their families. but fortunately, we have such a resource at our disposal. it is precisely in situations like this that the european union is a testament to the values and reasons that distinguish it. european solidarity, the defence of the community institutions, are values which must be defended and protected. this is the message that the european parliament and the union want to convey, and i hope that there will be greater sensitivity in spreading this message, also to combat easy anti-european demagoguery and instead to show how essential support and intervention at community level are.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i agree with the rapporteur and the irish authorities that the global economic and financial crisis has had a serious impact on the aviation industry and that the number of passengers, the number of kilometres travelled and the number of aircraft in service have fallen sharply. i therefore support european aid to a sector which is vital to the recovery of the irish and european economies.
in writing. - i congratulate mr gauzès on his excellent work. i voted in favour of this document because i believe it is necessary to provide european savers with clear and secure financial instruments. i am convinced that only through strict and precise regulation can we try to avoid further destabilisation of the market. the report we have voted on today therefore falls within the wider framework of economic and financial regulation that the european union is implementing. in this sense, proper regulation of investment funds also becomes a valuable tool to avoid systemic dysfunctions such as excessive risk exposure for those who are systemically important. i also share the idea of a european passport, which would be achieved through authorisation and supervision of all alternative fund managers established and operating in the union. finally, i welcome the information obligations to be provided to the supervisory authorities in order to ensure greater transparency.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on alternative investment fund managers, because i believe that fund managers should be registered and should comply with certain basic rules of conduct. they manage some usd 1 trillion in assets and therefore play a major role in financing the european economy. this activity, as the report clearly shows, involves very different entities and products, such as alternative investment funds and private equity funds, real estate funds and commodity funds. these characteristics make it a priority for european action to be transformed into a light and precise regulation directed at all operators providing financial services. regulation to ensure greater stability of the financial system and better protection of investors, which are useful tools for creating a genuine single market for european financial products.
in writing. − in europe, alternative investment fund managers are responsible for managing a substantial volume of invested assets, represent significant volumes of trading on the financial instrument markets and can exert considerable influence on the markets and companies in which they invest. i am sure that the impact of alternative investment fund managers on the markets in which they operate is significant, but the recent financial difficulties have highlighted the fact that the activities of alternative investment fund managers can also contribute to amplifying or spreading risks to the entire financial system and the economy. this directive should also aim to create incentives for the transfer of offshore funds to the union, thereby ensuring not only regulatory and investor protection benefits, but also a proper taxation of income at the level of alternative managers, funds and investors. i would like to stress here that uncoordinated national responses to these risks make it difficult to manage them efficiently.
in writing. - i congratulate mr gauzès on his excellent work. the eu directive on the regulation of hedge funds, private equity and other alternative investment funds, launched by the european commission in april 2009 in response to the financial crisis and along the lines agreed at the g20, was approved by a very large majority. it is a step forward in the european ambition to have financial governance in place by the beginning of 2011. these new rules make the international financial system more accountable and transparent and help to limit speculation. under the directive, investors in hedge funds based in countries outside the eu (hedge fund managers are often resident in tax havens) will be required to comply with the same conditions as all european companies in order to operate in the community market. to obtain this 'european passport' from the competent eu supervisory authority, alternative fund managers will therefore have to accept clear rules, limits on speculation, and greater transparency.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the list of third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas is drawn up following a careful analysis of the situation in the country concerned on a case-by-case basis and on the basis of an assessment of certain data relating to illegal immigration, security, the union's external relations and the principle of reciprocity. as these data are understandably subject to change over time, the sectoral legal framework provides for a revision mechanism of the list of countries, through which it is possible to vary the number of states benefiting from the visa exemption. the measure by mr díaz de mera garcía consuegra, which was approved today, concerns the transfer of the island of taiwan to that list. in recent decades, taiwan has been the protagonist of a major democratization process, which has led it to have significant economic and trade relations with the european union. i therefore believe that today's decision is an important one, which underlines the union's consistency with the decisions recently taken which have made taiwan the eu's fourth most important asian partner.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the main objective of the proposal is to develop a common immigration policy while helping to strengthen trade relations between the european union and taiwan. since the first democratic elections in 1996, taiwan has embarked on a major process of democratization, with major institutional reforms to respect civil liberties and citizens' rights that have helped to consolidate its political stability. from an economic point of view, it has experienced significant growth and has important economic and trade relations with the european union, cooperating in the fields of research, science, technology, education, culture and the environment. the abolition of visas is justified by the low risk of illegal immigration into the european union of citizens from this island. the visa liberalization for taiwan will strengthen our trade relations and foster closer cooperation in the fields of culture, education, environment and research, as well as promoting the growth of tourism in both directions. we owe this to the people of taiwan, also in the name of regional coherence, since we have already granted exemption from this obligation to other countries and entities in the same geographical area with a similar level of economic development.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation because i think it is appropriate and right that the island of taiwan should be moved to the positive list. the island is a good trading partner of the union and has high social and living standards very similar to those of the more advanced regions of the community. the visa liberalisation for taiwan will strengthen trade relations between the island and the european union and foster closer cooperation in the fields of culture, education, environment and research, as well as promoting the growth of two-way tourism. however, as the rapporteur has well illustrated, i do not think that the series of countries listed should be included in the positive list because, unlike taiwan, they do not have the same standards and requirements.
in writing. − taiwan poses no threat to the european union either in terms of illegal immigration (only 45 illegal taiwanese immigrants were identified between 2006 and 2008) or in terms of public security. as the rapporteur, mr díaz de mera garcía consuegra, informed us this morning, the taiwanese authorities have formally exempted all eu citizens from the visa requirement. i agree with the rapporteur that it is important to develop a common immigration policy, helping to strengthen trade relations with taiwan, which is the european union's fourth asian partner and a country of political stability, institutional reforms and respect for civil liberties and citizens' rights.
in writing. - i congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work and the positive result achieved. i voted in favour of this measure because i believe that the creation of an ad hoc fund to reduce energy dependence and to use renewable and local energy (even if it amounts to only eur 146 million) represents for my group in this parliament an important indication of the method to be followed for a more prudent use of the budget of the european union. i am convinced that this financial instrument will be even more valuable in the light of the financial crisis, as it will be able to support businesses in their recovery and will be a pilot project for the establishment of a larger energy fund. i also believe that this is a useful measure to enable projects to be carried out which can contribute to economic recovery and to the achievement of the energy objectives set for the fight against climate change. the emphasis on energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy is a major step forward. finally, i hope that a correct geographical distribution of the programmes will be implemented and that the entire legal structure (and the composition of the awarding jury) will be better defined.
in writing. - in the face of a demand crisis such as the one that has hit the world economy in recent years, the best response is to provide incentives to circulate the existing money supply. in this respect, the public sector is certainly the most appropriate to take action in this regard. it is desirable that this sector should be given a boost, which will make it possible to save money by putting the european economy on a virtuous path of consumption efficiency, while at the same time generating jobs which cannot be relocated. it is, however, necessary to stress the extreme urgency of this measure. it is expected that this measure may soon be regarded as one of the many measures for recovery and receive less attention, while timeliness would avoid the risk of such an eventuality occurring and at the same time guarantee greater effectiveness.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report by my colleague because i believe that it is important, particularly at a time of crisis, to support and stimulate the economy, but at the same time to focus on sectors which are not yet saturated but which need development and investment. i also agree with the rule that the instrument should be limited to financing measures that have a rapid, quantifiable and substantial impact on economic recovery in the eu, improving energy security and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. the current structural crisis is paradoxically an important opportunity to reconsider what has been done. the difficulties faced by the main systems can help europe to recover. but this requires the vision, the ability and the courage of a new strategy. at present, the only strategy that has any prospect of success is to focus on innovative solutions that can break the current technological-scientific paradigms.
in writing. - i congratulate mrs van brempt on her excellent work. the amendment to the legislation on the european energy recovery plan will allow the funds available to be used to finance projects such as: renovation of public and private buildings to improve energy efficiency or switch to renewable energy; construction of renewable energy-based installations and their integration into electricity grids; 'green' urban public transport solutions such as electric and hydrogen vehicles; local infrastructure, including efficient street lighting, electricity storage and the provision of smart meters and grids. the funds will focus on supporting local and regional authorities on projects which must be economically and financially efficient so that they can guarantee the timely return on investment. a total of €146.34 million is expected to be made available from january 2011 to 31 march 2014. the contributions received could take the form of loans, guarantee funds, equities or other financial products. up to 15% of the amounts raised may be used to assist public authorities in the preparation of projects, which will also be selected on the basis of geographical balance.
in writing. − in a time of crisis such as the one we are experiencing, it is unacceptable to waste the resources that the eu had made available to support energy projects. of the funds earmarked for gas, electricity and wind infrastructure, €146 million was unused. this measure will release this sum and will help to restore the performance of housing and public buildings, street lighting and the urban transport system. these funds will be able to create new jobs that contribute to the development of a competitive and sustainable economy.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's vote establishes a new and important fund to finance projects in the field of renewable energy and energy efficiency through innovative financial instruments. the fund has two aims: the commission's proposal is to promote energy saving and environmental improvement on the one hand, and to give a new impetus to europe's economic recovery on the other. the fund will finance energy initiatives and projects, adopting a different philosophy from the past, focusing no longer on the contribution to the lost fund, which has often proved to be unsuccessful, but on the return on investment. i believe that this new approach, if used properly, will create a virtuous circle for the revival of the european economy. the new financial instrument also represents an important development opportunity for local authorities, especially those in the south of italy. the fund can also be supplemented by other community funds, such as the european regional development fund. in voting strongly in favour of this new fund, i hope that this innovative type of financing will be extended in the future to many other sectors, starting with road, rail, port and airport infrastructure.
in writing. - the awareness of the primacy of the united states and the european union in the world is a responsibility from which we cannot escape. it is not a question of defending positions, nor of the illusion of hindering historical processes with the pretence of preserving that primacy. it is a question of making good those advances in civilization which have characterized our countries for decades. the desire to achieve the well-being of the people in the context of democracy, thanks to free markets, more humane working conditions, well-functioning social systems and all the other achievements that distinguish our countries, counts much more than the primacy in an international ranking that is able to provide data but not to transmit emotions and represent the quality of life. this applies not only to the management of world economic relations but also to the more sensitive issues of foreign policy and environmental policy (with its implications for industrial and energy policy). greater coordination today can create a better world tomorrow, and we are not going to give up on this ambitious goal.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to develop political and economic relations between the two sides of the atlantic, which have been steadily intensifying in recent years, with effects on investment choices and business activities. i believe that relations between the european union and the united states can be further improved by strengthening, as the motion for a resolution states, economic cooperation and rules on the protection of personal data and by calling on the us authorities to be more transparent in foreign and defence policy. it is important that relations between the two realities, especially in trade matters, be intensified and take account, on the one hand, of the common values and, on the other, of the contrasting positions on which a constructive dialogue must be developed. i am therefore voting in favour of the motion for a resolution, hoping that it will give impetus to ever closer cooperation between these two important players in world politics and economics.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because i consider it to be fair and balanced. it is important that parliament gives a signal and expresses its opinion on an important summit with our ally par excellence. transatlantic relations have always been a crucial aspect of european foreign policy. even in a globalised world, where some experts believe the axis is shifting from the west towards the powers of the east, i remain firmly convinced that the eu-us relationship is the linchpin for stability, development and prosperity not only on both sides of the atlantic but for the whole world. we have strong common roots, we share a common culture, lifestyles and systems, markets but above all we have always been the standard bearers of values, ideals and ideological, economic and social demands that have put us at the forefront of the world scene. but it is precisely because of the new world balances and scenarios that i believe it is necessary to make cooperation with washington more operational and, in order to establish itself as a credible interlocutor, it is essential that the eu should be able to show not only a cohesive image but also the capacity to make concrete commitments.
in writing. - freedom is one of the cornerstones on which this parliament is founded. this value is the foundation on which the european institutions are built, the source of energy which enables the market to give the necessary impetus to a diverse and complex economy, the breath of our citizens who move, for study or work, to the cities of those places which were once places to be reached with a passport and perhaps a visa. its importance is therefore not in question. the issue that this report highlights is rather its relationship to security. the problem is not easily solved. information must be collected, analysed in the right places and care must be taken to avoid misuse. the control of this mechanism must be continuous, constant and must not allow for any leakage. the citizens must not be allowed to feel that they are willing to set aside their freedom, just as they must not be allowed to use it to endanger the security of the people of europe. i think the report offers a good compromise for the balance between the two conflicting principles.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i share the commission's objectives in its communication. the reasons why the use and exchange of pnr data with third countries is necessary and useful for security purposes should be made transparent and understandable. at the same time, it must be demonstrated that there is a full awareness of the implications that such activities may have on privacy and the need for them to be covered by a set of uniform, recognisable and rigorous rules on the protection of personal data, to be enforced also when personal data is transferred to other countries. the use and exchange of pnr data will not only provide greater security for citizens, but will also make their lives and their cross-border movements easier. pnr data can significantly reduce police checks by focusing surveillance only on those for whom factual grounds of genuine risk emerge and by dispensing others from unnecessary checks and inspections.
in writing. − europe's innovation potential must be fully exploited. this cannot be a mere statement of principle, and i am pleased that a proposal such as this has finally been put forward. many energies and ideas which are abstract in themselves can now be integrated into a system and brought into being to meet specific needs. the issues are of great relevance, and efforts must be made to ensure that all the operators concerned participate. in particular, i welcome the reduction of bureaucratic burdens and the active involvement of smes, which contain an innovative impetus that only needs to be unleashed for the benefit of the whole community. it remains to be hoped that the project will be implemented properly.
in writing. - there is no doubt that security is a knot to be untied in order to strengthen the process of political integration of the european union. in particular, it is appropriate to stress the need to implement a common foreign and security policy that takes account of the specificities of individual countries, while achieving a level of effectiveness commensurate with the role the eu will assume on the international scene. the principles of peace and freedom proclaimed by the treaty of rome and the other treaties which have followed it must remain the basis of any decision that is to be taken. the osce has so far demonstrated that it carries out its tasks in a manner that is fully compatible with the principles set out above, and it would therefore be desirable to involve the community institutions more closely in this organization. i also believe that taking on greater responsibility can help the member states to reach common positions so that relations between the 27 countries can be strengthened on these issues as well.
in writing. − the european union and the osce share the same principles and values in matters such as the promotion of human rights, conflict prevention, the development of democratisation, the protection of minorities and also more recent challenges such as climate change. the development of synergies between the eu and the osce is essential to the achievement of these common objectives. the osce is the only organisation without international legal personality which deals with security issues in the european region. in this sense, the strengthening of the existing osce structures is more relevant than ever to ensure fruitful cooperation with the european institutions, in particular following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and the future creation of the european external action service. the establishment of a permanent eu delegation to the osce parliamentary assembly would facilitate the strengthening of cooperation between the eu and the osce, the close monitoring of its activities and the implementation of shared principles and values.
in writing. the european union and the osce need to be strengthened, the latter's role is important and fundamental in a whole range of areas, in particular for the role it plays in security and defence of democracy. although these are two bodies with different requirements, objectives and structures, it is important that there is no conflict or overlap which could create conflicts of competence. the roles are defined and different, but there is a risk of duplication in some areas. i voted in favour of this resolution because i share its message and its spirit. i believe that the osce is an essential forum for the euro-asian and euro-atlantic balances. clearly, given its membership, the european union is its core and foundation, and i hope that it will play a leading role in it.
in writing. - first of all, i should like to congratulate mr mann on the preparation of this report, which has the merit of proposing concrete measures to initiate a fruitful dialogue between generations. i voted in favour because i believe that only by establishing fair equality between the generations can we offer concrete guarantees to young people and increase their participation in the labour market. i also believe that the time is right for the eu and the member states to address the new questions raised by the generational challenge. europe will soon be faced with real problems of low population growth: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the social security system. in this context, i believe it is essential to re-evaluate social policy in favour of the over-60s. the over-60s are workers with added value for the world of work, and it would therefore be appropriate to provide for measures to prepare for their greater involvement. in this sense i support the possibility of revising the social security system so as to allow people over 60 to continue working even after they reach retirement age.
in writing. - the report covers many topics, all of them of enormous relevance, particularly for the most disadvantaged sections of the population. i would like to stress a cross-cutting aspect of the proposals and initiatives: the european union is facing a world which is changing ever faster, with major repercussions for social security and welfare systems. we are well aware that the guarantees we enjoyed in the past cannot be guaranteed for the future, and we must be prepared to shape a society that is able to thrive even under conditions different from those of the present and the past. i very much appreciate the call for solidarity, as well as the definition of 'intergenerational justice', and i intend to work, as far as possible, to find a remedy to the uncertainties related to the amount of old age pension that my generation will encounter in my country.
in writing. − equity in intergenerational relations is the new global challenge that must be addressed appropriately. modern societies have found themselves in a constant state of growth, where, especially in recent decades, the new generations have been offered better conditions and prospects than the previous ones. now the situation has passed the crest of what seemed to be endless growth and is at the forefront of the struggle between rights and limited resources. it is therefore necessary that all countries, starting with developed and democratic ones, and the relevant organisations, including the eu, commit themselves in a determined, conclusive and compelling way to formulate policies, make choices and implement them consistently towards a greater balance between current and future generations, in order to reduce the gaps and polarizations between those who have rights and those who do not and between those who have resources and those who do not. the report on the demographic challenge and solidarity between generations which we voted for seems to me to be moving in that direction.
in writing. - mr president, europe, in this period of financial, economic and social crisis, is facing a dramatic emergency: the unemployment rate. this phenomenon is particularly affecting the younger population, creating a worrying situation which will have serious consequences for europe's future competitiveness. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the european union, while recognising the principle of subsidiarity and the competence of the member states in this respect, must contribute to promoting dialogue between the different actors on the subject of solidarity between generations. the workforce of tomorrow is made up of today's young people. their delayed entry into the labour market results in slower careers, lower wages and significant pay inequalities compared to other generations. we need to help young people more, support entrepreneurship and youth employment. only then can we ensure a less uncertain future for the new generations.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i supported mr mann's report because i believe that the generational challenge must be one of the priority policies for future european action. young people are undoubtedly a key resource to invest in in order to revive the economy of the whole european union and it is to them that, in my view, particular attention should be paid. i think it is also appropriate to stress the importance of training and employment support policy. i believe that the strengthening of growth and employment, to be guaranteed through equal access to training opportunities and the labour market, is a necessary step towards achieving some important growth objectives, such as improving competitiveness and the capacity for innovation.
in writing. - the report by mrs mann is rich and well-articulated and i can say that she has fully taken up the points made by the femm committee, recognising the right and necessary importance of the gender dimension in this area. this parliament is distinguishing itself by implementing concrete policies aimed at improving equal dignity and quality of life for all individuals, within all our countries, even while recognising the marked regional differences. i therefore appreciate and express my appreciation for the space given to reconciling family life with working and private life, in particular the space and role given to women, including older women, in favour of the application of the principle of generational justice. we are calling at all levels for the involvement of civil society and secular and religious associations to respond with appropriate policies to create, without discrimination on grounds of nationality or sex, a europe that is solid and that does not age without seeing new and strong generations grow up.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr mann's report. the development process which has taken place in europe and the various member states over the last few decades has brought about changes and obvious social consequences which require support from the institutions. the concept of development is inevitably associated with the economic, cultural and social fields, so that these sectors cannot be separated when referring to the process of globalisation and development. in this respect, the work of the institutions should stem and sustain the inequalities caused by the lack of social cohesion. the common ideal would result in greater social cohesion, less economic inequality and equal individual and collective development of society. development and social cohesion must not be the enemies of progress but an integral part of it for a more solid integration and coexistence in society. in this context, the demographic challenge of an ageing population forces us to accelerate this process and to reconsider some social structures and programmes to adapt them to this new scenario.
in writing. - demographic change means that people are fortunately living longer and are more physically and psychologically active. on the other hand, birth rates in the member states have remained at a low level for decades; the proportions in the demographic pyramid are continually shifting in favour of the older generations and the generational pact is running up against its limits. active ageing is a process of optimising people's chances of remaining healthy as they age, participating in the life of their social environment and improving their quality of life. i strongly believe that 2012 should be proclaimed the 'european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations' in order to highlight the contribution that both young and old people can make to society. that is why i have endeavoured here to provide all the support that is needed for europe to meet this challenge.
in writing. - this report is positive in that it proposes to reduce the tax and administrative burden on businesses, an important objective to reduce competition from third countries which have not only tax but also production and labour costs which are significantly lower than those in europe. the proposal to limit pension obligations for the elderly is also welcome, both because of the increase in the average age and because of the improvement in health conditions, thus allowing those who wish to continue to work. it is a pity that, in amendments which we find unacceptable, parts have been inserted which are not at all relevant to the report and which are intended to promote the inclusion of non-community nationals. this choice, supported by the majority of the house, obliges us, albeit with regret, to vote against it.
in writing. - i take this opportunity to reiterate that a society worthy of man must be based on the principle of generational justice and that age discrimination undermines solidarity between generations, leads to poverty and is prohibited by the constitutive treaties. work is more than just paid employment and everyone, young and old, makes a substantial contribution, including through activities within the family, to making our society more human and to improving the stability of services and jobs. we are calling on governments to support and recognise voluntary activities which provide assistance to the community and the family and to resolve promptly the problems of legal liability in this respect. i also welcome this report which calls on governments to take measures to recognise the invisible and informal work of family workers of all ages, and particularly women carers of the elderly and the young, in the context of solidarity between generations.
in writing. - i congratulate the rapporteur and colleague maria da graca carvalho on her work. i am firmly convinced that science, innovation and research are the main drivers of european economic growth and employment growth. it is no coincidence that research and innovation are at the heart of the eu 2020 initiative. it is therefore time for europe to invest more in these areas: to compete on the world stage, the eu must create innovative products and modern services. this is precisely why the number of requests for funding is increasing day by day, which makes it necessary to simplify overall financial accounting requirements and to harmonise the rules and procedures, which are currently very different from each other. i voted in favour because i agree that it provides a rapid response to the research community which is clamoring for these changes. i agree with the rapporteur's approach of basing the funding system not on the results obtained, which could diminish the scientific ambition of researchers, but on the scientific aspects and therefore on excellence. simplification of administration is one of the major priorities for which europe must give voice and a greater internationalisation of the framework programme can create new opportunities and possibilities for collaboration with third countries and developing countries.
in writing. − the economies of scale achieved by the european union's research framework programmes are one of the most significant contributions of the community institutions to the long-term prosperity and growth of the member states. however, this is not enough in a time of intense international competition such as the present. in fact, we must always monitor the results, evaluate the feasibility of the opportunities, and maintain a close relationship with the scientific community that provides such a great service to the community. the partial removal of bureaucratic obstacles and the consequent reduction in the time taken to participate in calls for tenders would enable researchers to concentrate on their professional objectives by using resources and skills that would otherwise be wasted. let us not forget that these funds are allocated to be used efficiently. if it is true that merit is a fundamental component of efficiency, it is not acceptable that research should be hampered by bureaucratic duties of dubious utility.
in writing. - we live in a global economy, where competition is no longer represented by local, national or european companies. our companies, our researchers, our scientists, our universities are forced to compete globally with markets that have enormous resources available to them often at much, much lower costs than ours. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. it is necessary to create new high-quality jobs, promote sustainable mobility, improve training and technical skills and coordinate them with labour market needs. i hope that the next framework programme will provide all the resources needed to ensure that the union is a beacon in this area and is always at the forefront and becomes a beacon capable of attracting resources and human capital. that is really the challenge of the next few years.
in writing. − i welcome the simplification measures already implemented by the commission in the context of the implementation of the seventh framework programme (fp) and support the commission in its efforts to further simplify and clarify the rules so that they do not give rise to divergent interpretations and reduce the risk of errors, thereby reducing the cost of controls. the commission also called for the establishment of a european network of research centres, and for the establishment of a european network of research centres, which would be able to provide information on the activities of the european research area.
in writing. - i am in favour of the report because, in the context of economic growth, it aims to support the research sector by simplifying the procedures for implementing community programmes. it is important to streamline the steps for accessing projects, while respecting the principles of transparency, simplicity, consistency and legal certainty, and facilitating smes, universities, research institutes and local authorities. the creation of a portal for research participants allows for quick access to information and improves coordination with third countries through the exchange of best practices.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting today on an important document on the simplification of procedures for access to the framework programmes for research and innovation. simplifying and harmonising the legislative framework for european research programmes is a must. science, education and innovation are the key pillars of economic recovery and job creation. investment in research and innovation is necessary if we are to focus on new products and services, to make europe more competitive and, at the same time, to improve the quality of life of european citizens. in recent years, european research and innovation programmes have expanded considerably. this enlargement has also led to an increase in administrative rules and procedures which, in turn, have made it more difficult to participate in european calls. we hereby call on the european commission to remove these obstacles by starting as a matter of urgency the simplification of the rules for access to research funding. i voted in favour of the resolution, calling for greater uniformity of procedures to allow easier and wider access to european funds, which are often largely unused, also because of the difficulty of the procedures.
in writing. - the market economy model developed in europe over the decades is a source of pride. the transition from an economy based mainly on agriculture and livestock to one based mainly on services has been successfully managed in the primary sector in many regions. the management of this transition was based on public intervention to ensure the stability of firms' incomes and the exclusion of prices from competitive levers in the food sector. many lives have been saved and considerable savings in health care costs have been made as a result of adopting healthy and correct diets. now statistics bring to the attention of all new problems. i'm talking about safeguarding the food supply, which every other conversation inevitably relates to, but also the quality and balance of the food that will be available on the markets in the years to come. we are talking about the incomes of the thousands of families who live off the proceeds of these eu-funded activities. i appreciate the choice to address the main points in the livestock sector in this report and i am convinced that satisfactory results will continue to be achieved in the interests of public health and consumers.
in writing. − the role of rural development is, by its purpose and its diffusion, fundamental to keeping our territories alive. in this context, farming is one of the most important sectors for our communities. in fact, beyond the food and economic aspects, which are important and in relation to which the quality of products is ensured by environmentally sustainable methods and techniques, livestock farming represents the broadest form of presence, protection and development of rural areas. this is why the eu, including through the common agricultural policy especially in the post-2013 reform, and each member state must foster its permanence, not only by innovating environmentally and economically sustainable farming and management methods and techniques, but also by strengthening their wider role as managers of the environment and the land and protecting them from market crises through lower production costs, enhanced product value and greater market organisation. the report on the crisis in the eu livestock sector which we voted for seems to me to be moving in that direction.
in writing. - the crisis in the livestock sector was particularly affected by the rise in cereal prices (especially in italy and spain, as countries such as great britain are predominantly grassland farmers) and the consequent increase in production costs. the negative trend in the sector is also due to the volume of imports from third countries. the difficulties in the sector can threaten food security in the eu and the supply of meat for its citizens. i therefore agree with the contents of this motion for a resolution, and i shall vote in favour of it. in particular, i believe that it is necessary to introduce market control mechanisms and to pay greater attention to the content of bilateral agreements concluded with third countries, as in the recent case of mercosur.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our european farmers have been living in a state of severe crisis for some time. i voted in favour of the resolution precisely because it is a step towards restoring the incomes of those who have made their livestock farming their business. it is people who believe in their work to support conditions that are now severe, living in often difficult environments and having to acquire the means of production at very high prices. i would like to express my sincere sympathy to all the farmers in the areas of italy which have been affected by the recent floods, and i hope that the resolution adopted today will also help to restore them to a life and a job that will be satisfying to them.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the important resolution in favour of the livestock sector in the hope of improving the lot of farmers and of a whole sector in crisis because of the high speculation on the price of animal feed. my vote in favour is in defence of all farmers who are facing bankruptcy: parliament called on the european union, pending the adoption of the amendments to the cap (common agricultural policy), to place a fair amount of grain stocks for livestock on the market in order to reduce costs for farmers by curbing the current high level of speculation and imposing greater price controls to protect the agricultural market.
in writing. - just as the foundations are being laid for the new common agricultural policy, with the hope of keeping european farms competitive with those in third countries, which undoubtedly benefit from larger territories and much lower labour costs, a new threat is emerging for our farmers, namely an exaggerated increase in feed costs linked to the increase in the cost of cereals. the commission must take measures to calm down the price of cereals so that the market is not affected by their excessive volatility.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, despite all the appeals to not let down our guard over the fate of haiti after the earthquake in january, the news of the last few days seems to show that the island has been abandoned by the international community at the most delicate moment, that of reconstruction. the cholera virus is spreading these days, something that few in haiti know about and that everyone ends up attributing a mystical, religious value to. the un peacekeepers are blamed for the spread of the disease. one nepalese soldier on the island was infected, and hundreds of people, including women and children, besieged the peacekeeping headquarters. humanitarian workers are also feeling threatened and many are leaving the country. the tension is very high and much of the rubble from the violent earthquake of january 12 remains in the streets and squares. we heard that there is a lack of water and therefore it is impossible to wash and protect oneself from infection. the vibrator is spreading rapidly and the death toll is rising exponentially. the numbers have been given before, but i want to repeat it: the number of deaths has now reached 1,130, the number of hospitalizations has risen to over 18,000 in a month, but there are thousands more reporting symptoms of the infection every day. any further delay by the international community is no longer possible. the solution must be found immediately, otherwise every further infection will remain on our consciences forever.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, first the epicentre of a terrible earthquake, precisely in the poorest and worst governed part of the american hemisphere, and now cholera in the country with the highest per capita international assistance. what a paradox! it 's not just a terrible combination of bad luck: in haiti, with these streets full of children and tents crammed with garbage, you don't know where to start. the local political class is often greedy and focused on power games rather than taking on the reconstruction and the bureaucratic machine, decimated by the earthquake, has a weak administrative culture and in some cases even came to hinder the receipt of aid. the international organizations are many, often poorly coordinated, and have in fact failed to protect the population. as early as last june, when i visited the country with the european parliament delegation, it was clear that the concentration of displaced camps, unremoved rubble and waste was a sign of the worst-case scenarios. and now the cholera has come. the commission and echo have done their part so far, but now we must redouble our efforts. i believe that haiti now needs not only vigorous rehabilitation but also greater protection at the international political level.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, four reports in one minute is too many, so i congratulate the other three rapporteurs but will confine myself to mr ferreira's report. maintaining the principles of biodiversity must become an imperative of the european union's actions in fisheries and aquaculture. the compromise amendment is the result of good work by mr ferreira, who has taken these concerns into account. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. in this respect, greater support for organic production is a guaranteed choice and entails the protection of biodiversity. it is precisely the one most able to exploit indigenous production. i hope, commissioner, that this additional measure on aquaculture can be incorporated, as part of the reform of the common fisheries policy, in a single, simplified regulation. this simplifies matters a great deal and i hope that a single regulation on aquaculture will simplify all the procedures even more.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the directive we are discussing is intended to harmonize the content and quality of pharmaceutical information available to all citizens of the union. while reaffirming the right to publicity, the patient's right to information is finally affirmed. we must give all european citizens the same access to information on medicines. the main objective of this directive is to make patients more informed citizens, enabling them to approach medicines in a more conscious way. we all, and the pharmaceutical industry in particular, must have the same objective, namely to disseminate correct and useful information which is equally accessible to all citizens. i consider that the directive has two main points. firstly, by providing the right information, we can give people the opportunity to use medicines appropriately, so that the health benefits are enhanced and the risks of misuse are minimised. secondly, correct and effective information can make citizens more aware of the burden of pharmaceutical expenditure on current expenditure. however, there are some areas where we must be very careful and strict. i am referring above all to the danger of information on medicines becoming hidden advertising. we must prevent the risk that behind apparently scientific information there is in fact a much less noble intention to influence and direct the patient towards the purchase of a medicine. effective tools for controlling information, especially information that the patient can obtain via the internet, are therefore indispensable. in conclusion, i therefore hope that the commission will provide for forms and methods of checking the information in order to ensure that it is correct. these checks should be entrusted to dedicated and independent organisations, so as to have greater guarantees of impartiality.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this report is of the utmost importance because it will make it possible to harmonize european legislation on access to information on medicinal products and, above all, because it will guarantee patients greater information on prescription medicines. the presence of such information on websites shall be transparent and independent. to ensure this, all information must be checked by the competent national or european authorities to prevent it from becoming a hidden promotion of medicinal products, perhaps by the manufacturing companies. finally, i would urge the same attention to be paid to the information contained in the brochures of prescription medicines. in this respect, i would prefer that the doctors or pharmacists should inform the patients in detail, so that there is all the necessary awareness about the administration of medicines.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the regulation is a positive one, since it aims to provide a harmonised regulatory framework for non-promotional information on prescription medicines, which pharmaceutical companies can disclose to the public, while maintaining the prohibition on advertising. this proposal highlights the difference between advertising and information. the provision of information is based on the principles of active research. the main channel of information on medicines must continue to be the doctor. other channels, intended as complementary, must be maintained, and these include magazines and newspapers. the focus has been on the patient's right to information, with the active involvement of organisations representing citizens and in particular patients. our vote is in favour.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 24 november 2010. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by jill evans, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment (recast) (com (2008) 0809 c6-0471/2008 2008/0240 (cod)) (a7-0196/2010).
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we in the committee have taken the opposite view of the proposal for a directive because the rapporteur had radically changed the commission's proposal in a restrictive way, opening up the scope, proposing the phasing out of 33 other substances added to annex iii, including flame retardants, bromates and chlorides, as well as pvc and its additives, restricting the possibilities for exemption and adaptation times, and introducing stringent legislation for nanomaterials. if this choice, which is not backed by sufficient scientific evidence, were to win a favourable vote in the house, it would have caused very serious damage to the economy, with serious repercussions on employment. fortunately, thanks to a series of trilogues in which i participated as a shadow rapporteur, a more than satisfactory compromise was reached, with a commitment to verification and possible revision within three years. another complex topic was the detailed definition of nanomaterials, which was deferred pending a commission proposal. the text, as it has come out of the trilogues, can be signed and voted in favour of.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we have seen considerable efforts by the community institutions to make the production, use and disposal of electronic products more environmentally friendly and more environmentally friendly. the rohs directive is one piece of this policy. compliance with directives is undoubtedly a challenge and a burden for companies, but it is also an opportunity. the ability to offer products which are less polluting becomes a very important differentiating factor for our companies, and can be considered a real competitive advantage. companies should not only see the rules and requirements of the directive as punitive obligations, but also as opportunities to improve business processes and product quality. however, some exemptions have become necessary - some because of the current severe economic crisis, others because they will be the subject of a future specific directive. this is the case for nanomaterials, the space and security sectors, fixed installations, transport vehicles and self-propelled machinery, medical equipment for implantation in the human body, photovoltaic panels and equipment for research and development applications. finally, i would like to take this opportunity to call for greater consistency between the rohs directive and the reach regulation, avoiding any risk of confusion and overlap, because companies and operators need clear and certain rules.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 24 november 2010. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, according to recent figures, 9.3 million tonnes of electrical and electronic equipment are sold in the european union every year, most of which are large household appliances and computer and telecommunications equipment. as the market expands and innovation cycles shorten, equipment is replaced more frequently, contributing to an increase in the waste stream of electrical and electronic equipment. it is estimated that this waste will reach 12,3 million tonnes by 2020. the rohs directive, adopted in 2003, aimed at phasing out a first set of hazardous substances and has reduced the amount of substances disposed of and potentially released into the environment. the revision of this directive was planned with the aim of introducing stricter rules on the restriction of dangerous substances. i believe that the compromise package, reached after lengthy negotiations between the council and parliament, represents an important step forward in the direction of greater clarity and simplification of the directive. among the regulated aspects, the exclusion from the scope of the directive of all substances which, without any scientific evidence, would have been banned, thus contributing to the harm of the many undertakings operating on the market, is of particular importance.
in writing. dear colleagues, given the high priority of the revision of this directive, it should be borne in mind that its main purpose is to provide for stricter and even more stringent rules on the restriction of the use of dangerous substances. now, i think this compromise package represents a significant step forward towards greater clarity and simplification of the rohs directive. among the many aspects that are being considered in order to be regulated, i would like to emphasize in particular the exclusion from the scope of the directive of all those substances - such as pvc and nanomaterials - which would be subject to a production ban. this, ladies and gentlemen, is not only due to the absence of objective scientific evidence, but also to the detriment of the technological progress connected with the production of these materials. so overall we can be satisfied with the negotiating agreement. on the one hand, this agreement strengthens the protection of the environment by prohibiting substances which are considered dangerous on the basis of reliable scientific evidence; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the products concerned is not compromised.
the agenda includes one-minute speeches on matters of political importance.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i wish to inform parliament of what has happened to the exhibition 'promoting cultural values through the protection of the cultural heritage of occupied cyprus' which is being held at the committee of the regions from 17 to 26 november. on 17 november, after the opening, the head of the dg communication wolfgang petzold ordered the exhibitors to suspend the exhibition immediately, citing the fact that the panels bore different captions from those agreed. i have had the application for authorization sent to me and i have verified that there is no difference between what is authorized by the same office and what is shown. it also appears that the curator of the exhibition was told by the same unit chief to delete the terms "occupation" and "turkish invasion". i have telephoned the head of the unit several times to clarify what happened, but neither the manager in question nor his staff have agreed to speak to me. within hours of these allegations being made, the exhibition was reopened. ladies and gentlemen, i consider what has happened to the committee of the regions to be a serious violation of the rights of an eu member state.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to inform the members, citizens and associations that we have tabled written declaration 0086/2010 calling for the protection of water as a public good. water is not just a common good, it is a universal human right, and the management of water services as a local public service is the foundation of good governance. these are our guiding principles and they are the same principles that have moved thousands of italian citizens to sign all the requests for referendums to avoid the removal of a primary good from the public sphere. we believe that the initiative is not exclusive to those who have proposed it, because this is a battle that belongs to everyone. in confirmation of this, it should be said that the declaration was put forward together with colleagues from the political groups of the greens, the socialist and democratic friends and the european left and is finding a broad consensus throughout parliament. the aim is to collect at least half the signatures of the members of parliament so that the declaration becomes the official position of the european parliament and can safeguard water as a right and not as a profit.
the debate is closed.
the agenda includes the report by mr ivo belet, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on public service broadcasting in the digital age: the future of the dual system (2010/2028(ini) (a7-0286/2010)
member of the commission. − madam president, the commission welcomes the european parliament’s report entitled ‘public service broadcasting in the digital era: the future of the dual system’. the report is a well-balanced text as it supports the existing dual system, based on co-existence between public service broadcasters and commercial broadcasters in europe. as the audiovisual media services directive recalls in one of its recitals, this co-existence is a feature that distinguishes the european audiovisual media market from others and the report fully recognises this. the protocol on the system of public broadcasting in the member states, annexed to the eu treaties, recognises the member states’ freedom to define the public service remit to organise public service broadcasting and its funding, as long as such funding does not affect trading conditions and competition in the community. therefore, the member states determine the form and conditions of funding of their public service media so long as eu state aid rules are respected. we agree with the main thrust of the report, i.e. that public broadcasters should be able to use the opportunities offered by digitisation and the diversification of distribution platforms, in line with the principle of technological neutrality. this was acknowledged in the revised communication from the commission of 2009 on the application of state aid rules to public service broadcasting. we have some comments on two elements of the report in particular. first, regarding monitoring the council of europe standards, there is no eu responsibility for the political independence of public service media. furthermore, eu member states cannot give a mandate to the european audiovisual observatory without the agreement of the non-eu members. the commission could not do so either. second, the report suggests that certain member states have failed to take any action in promoting european works in broadcasting. this is not supported by figures from the commission’s recent report on the application of the directive’s provisions. according to that report, broadcasters across europe are doing well overall in terms of the promotion of european programmes. public service broadcasters should be at the forefront of innovation, driving the development of new formats and quality, as regards both the programme itself and technically, if they are to keep up with trends and challenges from elsewhere. it seems that we fully agree on these points and i look forward to cooperating with parliament on these issues within the legal framework provided by the treaties.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 25 november 2010. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by christian ehler, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on civil-military cooperation and civil-military capacity building (2010/2071 ((ini)) (a7-0308/2010).
member of the commission. − madam president, i will focus on the report, since it is an extremely useful and important report. i would like to thank mr ehrenhauser for his contribution. the report is useful because it rightly focuses on the key element of civil-military cooperation, which is exactly the commission’s priority. it deals with the main points related to the eu’s comprehensive approach in crisis management. the establishment of the european external action service is the exact expression of this priority. the very concept of the service that the high representative is putting in place points in the same direction as the one suggested in the report, in particular through the inclusion of the structures of the common security and defence policy in the external action service. we fully support the development of civilian capabilities in order to have a proper balance between resources. the appropriate modalities for recruitment are now agreed, and appropriate expertise can be brought into the external action service. as everyone knows, this was not possible before. a number of points in the report have been taken into account, and specific actions have been launched. this relates in particular to fostering civil-military synergies, better usability of the eu battle groups, training, financing, and cooperation with key partners, in particular nato and the united nations. we also support the reinforcement of relations between the eu and the united nations. we have already done a lot together. the high representative again met with the un secretary general in lisbon last saturday. the relationship between the eu and nato is an important issue, as was illustrated just yesterday at the nato summit in lisbon. we also favour implementing all practical measures which can reinforce concrete cooperation between the eu and nato and ensure, in particular, cooperation when both are deployed in the same theatre. the commission and the high representative herself are looking forward to working together with the european parliament on this important issue of civil-military cooperation.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 23 november 2010. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent weeks severe floods have hit some european countries, bringing the population of the regions concerned to their knees. last week four belgian citizens were killed in the provinces of waals-brabant, oost-vlanderen and henegouwen, on the border with the capital and in the north of the country. authorities say it was the worst flooding in 50 years. in two days, the amount of rain that usually falls in a month has been recorded, so much so that the intervention of the army was necessary to evacuate the most damaged territories. a similar situation exists in the western part of france, where many roads that are impassable to traffic have blocked the transport system. autumn plantings are also blocked by the continuing rainfall that does not allow access to the land. twenty days ago, in my own country, italy, the regions of veneto were also hit hard, with two deaths, friuli-venezia giulia, liguria and calabria, with one death, the province of salerno in campania and tuscany, with three deaths, with dozens of injured people pulled from the mud and rubble and one person still missing in rovigo. the damage amounts to over one billion euros for the most immediate interventions alone, to which must be added the funds needed for structural works. over 4,500 people were displaced, 280 communities and more than 500,000 people were affected, agricultural areas were devastated and 150,000 livestock drowned. i would like to emphasize two points. the first is the exceptional mobilization of the aid machine and the world of solidarity, which, with thousands of volunteers, supported the affected populations in the first emergency phase. they must receive the thanks and applause of our institution. the second aspect is related to the long-term effects that this catastrophe will trigger. the european fabric of production is characterized by small and mediumsized enterprises which have lost everything: machinery, equipment, processing materials. the same is true of the thousands of farms whose plantations have been destroyed, but also of tractors, machinery and seeds rendered useless by mud, flooded stables and farms, and drowned thousands of cattle and chickens. these companies, which were already struggling with the economic crisis, are now doomed to fail. the floods will eventually destroy the productive system, leading to unemployment and impoverishment in these areas. it is therefore urgent that europe does its part by giving the governments of the countries concerned assurances that they are prepared to mobilise the solidarity fund. even in the absence of the strict criteria for the activation of the fund and even without the approval of the 2011 budget, we must give an immediate response to our fellow citizens who are still experiencing the effects of such a great tragedy and who have the right to feel the closeness of this parliament and the concrete support of the european union.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group i would like to express our solidarity with all the citizens affected by the floods. however, i would like to speak about my region, a region of 5 million inhabitants where 500,000 people have been affected by flooding, with 131 municipalities affected, 7,000 people displaced, 140 km2 flooded, 3 hospitals and health facilities evacuated, 2 deaths. agriculture was damaged and 23% of the venetian enterprise system was affected by the flood. so you can imagine the scale of this catastrophe. europe must do more. europe must mobilise the solidarity fund and we know that if the budget is not adopted the fund cannot be mobilised. but europe, in addition to talking about grand strategies, development plans and fantastic planning, should invest more in research and prevention of hydrogeological risk, promote responsible land use planning, encourage the use and study of early warning systems. it should invest more in water protection, because our rivers are at risk and continue to endanger the health of our citizens. so i really hope that europe, for once, will respond and make itself heard, since it is often accused of being distant from our citizens.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today we are called upon to vote on a package of aid for the netherlands, which has called for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for a total amount of eur 10.5 million. this internal transfer of funds to the union budget will continue in the normal way. however, the next requests for aid, the number of which is constantly increasing, risk being blocked due to the non-approval of the 2011 budget. if the twelfths system were to come into force in january, it would not be possible to make the transfers and the necessary payments. in this particular period of economic difficulties for the whole of europe, parliament called for a high degree of responsibility on the part of the member states, which had created resistance in the council to the adoption of an austere budget in line with the prerogatives of the lisbon treaty.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the change of agenda approved yesterday by this house, i am here to express my first and foremost satisfaction that the juri committee has unanimously approved the draft report we are now voting on. it is important that the construction of the european legal area should be supported by such a broad consensus in parliament. the stockholm programme is a deeply personal reflection of the very nature of the process of building a people's europe, not just of political forces or institutional representation. it is intended to solve the problems of life for europeans by creating a genuine and unified common market in labour, goods and services, a business activity without internal frontiers and without bureaucratic obstacles, and to strengthen the common basis of the law of inheritance, contracts, consumers, timeliness of payments, the family, minors and more. it will also be the task and merit of the judiciary, national magistrates, lawyers, accountants and workers in the individual states to make europe, to interpret the law that unites our continent. our past is marked by different judicial and legal traditions common law and civil law with differences between french or german codes and sometimes distant histories. we respect national prerogatives and the principle of subsidiarity, but we also recognize that to make europe - and fortunately the path is now being taken - we need a gradual convergence based on a great constitutional tradition of fundamental rights, which is the symbol of europe. mr president, the action plan we are about to adopt aims to build, strengthen, extend and disseminate a solid european legal culture, a european legal mentality. i recommend that we vote for it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report examines the annual report and the work carried out during the year. the economic and financial and, increasingly, political actions are still largely dominated by the international financial crisis. the events in greece and other eurozone countries have, of course, complex causes. the problems are largely of internal origin, being the result of the lack of internal structural reforms. there is no doubt that european monetary union has not worked the way it was designed. the principles of the stability and growth pact have not always been respected and what initially appeared to be minor breaches have, over time, proved to have seriously undermined the pact as a whole. we must therefore learn the right lesson from this situation. the european monetary union must be rebalanced, financial markets must be made more transparent and crises better managed, and public confidence must be fundamentally rebuilt. this is a huge challenge, but it is also an opportunity which we must seize.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's proposal to exempt the introduction and relocation of closed aquaculture installations from the requirement of authorization could not but be accompanied by a stricter definition of the requirements which these installations must meet. that is why i gave my full support to mr ferreira's report. however, i would like to take this opportunity to point out the lack of adequate support for scientific research and technological development in the field of native species husbandry. increased support in this area is crucial for the sustainable development of european aquaculture. only in this way can we diversify food production and supply, guaranteeing improved quality and greater environmental safety.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the single market is one of the pillars of the european union. it is true that, on equal terms, firms can produce and sell their products and services without public support, but not all sectors and not all territories are on equal terms. it is therefore right, as is the case today, to correct economic disadvantages and to allow those productive entities to exist, to remain on the market and to maintain employment levels, as for example in sulcis, where 500 families would have been without work, without income, without dignity. it is important to remember that when we talk about coal we are talking about areas which have no alternative to mining and which must be allowed to adopt production technologies which are competitive, compatible with the free market and with the environment. logically, the postponement of public support to 2018 must be an imperative for institutions and companies to act immediately to achieve technological, financial and environmental compatibility conditions in line with the challenges ahead.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the quality of the work done by the joint parliamentary assembly of the european parliament has made it a key player in north-south cooperation throughout the world. strengthening the parliamentary dimension of cooperation has proved essential in order to ensure the sound use of funds, the satisfaction of the needs of the population and the achievement of the millennium development goals on health and education. the european commission has for some time been putting national and regional policy papers under the parliamentary scrutiny of both the european parliament and the national parliaments. i voted in favour of this report because i want to support the work done so far by our assembly, which now has an even more important role in the supervision of the negotiations for the economic partnership agreements. in 2009, the european commission, together with the acp, put forward proposals for the second revision of the partnership agreement and i hope that its survival and evolution as a key institution in this process of cooperation and democratization in the rest of the world can be ensured.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate my colleague, mrs joly, on her report. we live in a world today where human history seems to be traveling on separate tracks. there are continents where the day is marked by innovation, technology and an objective well-being, and others where people spend hours, from dawn to dusk, in the desperate search for the minimum means of survival. in 2009, the joint parliamentary assembly worked actively to ensure that the many proposals could be translated into concrete commitments and targets to be achieved. the european union has demonstrated its firm resolve to take timely, targeted and coordinated action in support of the most affected countries, in particular the poorest and most vulnerable. the 20th acp-eu plenary session will be held in kinshasa on 1 december, during which an important report on the millennium development goals will be discussed. i will do my utmost, as rapporteur and as vice-president of the assembly, to ensure that all the measures adopted do not become mere slogans but become concrete commitments to continue the journey towards a more equitable world and above all a world without poverty.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly has proved to be an indispensable instrument in building an open and democratic dialogue, by involving the acp national parliaments, local authorities and non-governmental organisations. i agree with the general approach of the report, and i find it particularly useful to call on the commission to provide more information to acp parliamentarians. it is essential to involve them actively in the preparation of national development strategies. i have given my support to my colleague, mrs joly. however, i believe that before we talk about the introduction of a tax on international financial transactions, we must first prepare a study of the impact this could have.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the stockholm programme, adopted by the european council in december last year, aims to create a european area of freedom, security and justice, to be achieved in the next five years, capable of guaranteeing citizens the enjoyment of all their fundamental rights. the ultimate objective of eu law must therefore be to facilitate mobility and to ensure that citizens themselves can establish a european judicial area as quickly as possible. the action plan proposed by the european commission includes a whole series of measures, drawing on the new instruments made available by the lisbon treaty, to reconcile the needs of citizens in the single market with the different judicial traditions of the member states. i voted in favour of this report because, given the necessary premises, it calls on the member states to commit themselves actively to its implementation, emphasizing those areas which should be considered as priorities, such as civil matters, mutual recognition of acts and judgments, the common framework, debtors' assets and common judicial training. i would like to stress once again my conviction that the european parliament must be involved in this process of harmonization after a careful examination of the existing legislation at national level. today, the harmonisation of legislation and the respective scope of civil and criminal law on many issues is interrelated and has become an integral part of the discussions in international trade negotiations because it raises a number of legal issues that are still unresolved.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european solidarity fund. i believe that it is a valuable instrument which enables the european union to show its solidarity with the people of regions affected by natural disasters by providing financial support to help them to restore normal living conditions quickly. the request approved in today's vote was submitted by ireland, in reference to heavy rainfall which caused severe flooding in november 2009. these floods have caused serious damage to the agricultural sector, residential and business properties, the road network and other infrastructure. the irish authorities estimated the total direct damage caused by the disaster at eur 520,9 million. since these are below the threshold provided for in the regulation, the commission examined the application on the basis of the so-called 'extraordinary regional disaster' criterion, according to which a region affected by an extraordinary disaster, mainly of natural origin, which has affected the majority of the population, with profound and lasting repercussions on the living conditions and economic stability of the region itself, may benefit from the fund's assistance. finally, i would add that the fund has been mobilised for a total amount of eur 13 022 500.
in writing. − the commission did well to mobilise the solidarity fund for an amount of eur 13 022 500, with the parallel presentation of an amending budget proposal (pbr no 8/2010), following the request for assistance submitted by ireland for the floods of november 2009 which caused extensive damage to the nation's infrastructure for an estimated amount of around eur 520.9 million. disasters and natural disasters must be a priority and i hope that in the future there will be more prompt and immediate action by the european commission. the flooding in ireland happened in november 2009 and it was only today, over a year after the event, that there was approval in parliament. the veneto region has recently been flooded and i very much hope that the commission will take action more quickly and in a more timely manner than in the past.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr böge's report because i believe that it is the duty of the european union to act in support of and in solidarity with certain regions affected by natural disasters and catastrophes. i believe that the concept of solidarity is linked to the idea and values on which the european union is based. this is one of the core values that gave birth to the union and made it prosper and expand over time, which is why this appropriation is not only justified and well founded, but 'almost' due. i hope that similar measures will also be taken in the italian regions which have been hit hard by the recent floods which have brought the economy of those areas to its knees.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i agree with the rapporteur, mr böge, and i congratulate him on the need to mobilise the european solidarity fund for ireland, on the basis of point 26 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 march 2006. this agreement allows the mobilisation of the solidarity fund within an annual ceiling of eur 1 billion. this is the first proposal to mobilise the fund in 2010. i share and reiterate the recommendations of the rapporteur to the commission and i agree that, in view of the difficult economic situation in europe and particularly in ireland, we must not fail to show solidarity. finally, i would like to stress here, also in the light of the disaster in northern italy, the need to act immediately also for the latter disaster areas.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for the netherlands because i consider it a valuable resource for workers in difficulty because of the economic crisis. the fund was set up in 2006 to provide concrete support to workers made redundant as a result of the relocation of their businesses or, following the derogation introduced in 2009, also as a result of the economic crisis, in order to reintegrate them into the labour market. today's vote concerned a request for support for 821 redundant workers from 70 enterprises in the two neighbouring nuts ii regions of north brabant and zuid holland, operating in nace revision 2, division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media), for an amount of eur 2 890 027 financed by the egf. i would like to conclude by welcoming the adoption of the report, which shows that the egf is a useful and effective resource in the fight against unemployment as a consequence of globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is a fund which aims to support the reintegration of workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the ongoing globalisation of world markets. applications for assistance from the egf are evaluated by the commission, which has already given a favourable opinion on the eligibility application in this case. the budgetary authority must now give its approval. the application under consideration in this report, which is the 19th during the 2010 budget, concerns the mobilisation of the egf for an amount of eur 453 632 (it is recalled that the annual fund cannot exceed eur 500 million) requested by the netherlands for 140 printing works in the region of drenthe. the economic crisis is putting many companies in difficulty and more and more employees are losing their jobs. the latter must be protected. my vote can only be positive.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, once again we are in this chamber to approve an exceptional appropriation within our own borders. we are giving the green light to six appropriations in today's sitting alone. i say this with regret, because these measures are linked to crisis situations and a series of problems affecting the economy, the labour market, workers and their families. but fortunately, we have such a resource at our disposal. it is precisely in situations like this that the european union demonstrates its values and its reasons for being. european solidarity and the defence of the community institutions are values which must be defended and protected. this is the message that the european parliament and the european union want to convey, and i hope that there will be greater sensitivity in spreading this message, also to combat easy anti-european demagoguery and to show how essential support and intervention at community level are.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for the netherlands because i consider it a valuable resource for workers in difficulty because of the economic crisis. the fund was set up in 2006 to provide concrete support to workers made redundant as a result of the relocation of their businesses or, following the derogation introduced in 2009, also as a result of the economic crisis, in order to reintegrate them into the labour market. today's vote concerned a request for support for 140 redundant workers from 2 enterprises in the nuts ii region of drenthe, operating in nace revision 2, division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media), for an amount of eur 453 632 financed by the egf. i would like to conclude by welcoming the adoption of the report, which shows that the egf is a useful and effective resource in the fight against unemployment as a consequence of globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for the netherlands because i consider it a valuable resource for workers in difficulty because of the economic crisis. the fund was set up in 2006 to provide concrete support to workers made redundant as a result of the relocation of their businesses or, following the derogation introduced in 2009, also as a result of the economic crisis, in order to reintegrate them into the labour market. today's vote concerned a request for support for 129 redundant workers from 9 enterprises in the nuts ii region of limburg, operating in nace revision 2, division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media), for an amount of eur 549 946 financed by the egf. i would like to conclude by welcoming the adoption of the report, which shows that the egf is a useful and effective resource in the fight against unemployment as a consequence of globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for the netherlands because i consider it a valuable resource for workers in difficulty because of the economic crisis. the fund was set up in 2006 to provide concrete support to workers made redundant as a result of the relocation of their businesses or, following the derogation introduced in 2009, also as a result of the economic crisis, in order to reintegrate them into the labour market. today's vote concerned a request for support for 650 redundant workers from 45 enterprises in the two nuts ii regions of gelderland and overijssel, operating in nace revision 2, division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media), for an amount of eur 2 013 619 financed by the egf. i would like to conclude by welcoming the adoption of the report, which shows that the egf is a useful and effective resource in the fight against unemployment as a consequence of globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for the netherlands because i believe that this instrument is a valuable resource for supporting workers in difficulty because of the economic crisis. the fund was set up in 2006 to provide concrete support to workers made redundant as a result of the relocation of their businesses or, following the derogation introduced in 2009, also as a result of the economic crisis, in order to reintegrate them into the labour market. today's vote concerned a request for support for 720 redundant workers from 79 enterprises in the two nuts ii regions of noord holland and utrecht, operating in nace revision 2, division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media), for an amount of eur 2 266 625 financed by the egf. i would like to conclude by welcoming the adoption of the report, which shows that the egf is a useful and effective resource in the fight against unemployment as a consequence of globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for the netherlands because i believe that this instrument is a valuable resource for supporting workers in difficulty because of the economic crisis. the fund was set up in 2006 to provide concrete support to workers made redundant as a result of the relocation of their businesses or, following the derogation introduced in 2009, also as a result of the economic crisis, in order to reintegrate them into the labour market. today's vote concerned a request for support for 598 redundant workers from 8 enterprises in the two nuts ii regions of noord holland and zuid holland, operating in nace revision 2, division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media), for an amount of eur 2 326 459 financed by the egf. finally, i would like to stress that today's vote on the six reports shows that the fund is a useful and effective resource in the fight against unemployment as a consequence of globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. - i am in favour of the proposal, but i think that a number of factors should be taken into account. first of all, i believe that an impact assessment should have been carried out on a regular basis and that the period of extension of the monopoly should not have been longer than 2013, the date of entry into force of the new cap. however, given the importance of monopoly participation for small distilleries and the need for a further transition to the free market, and given that there is no evidence of any distortion of competition in the single market, i agree to the extension. i hope, however, that the reform of the new common agricultural policy will take account of these particularities and find a balanced solution aimed at opening up the market while at the same time protecting traditional local activities.
in writing. - i congratulate the rapporteur, mr moreira, for highlighting the need for regular reviews of the list of pharmaceutical and chemical products entering the european union duty-free. i agree with this measure - which i voted for - because the manufacturing environment in which the pharmaceutical industry operates is evolving at a very fast pace and it is therefore essential to keep this list, which currently contains over 8 000 products, constantly updated. it is now proposed to extend this list to include 718 new products, on which all the member states, already in favour of the previous amendments, have given their consent. finally, i agree with the mechanism that has been put in place to protect the interests and health of european consumers.
in writing. - i welcome, subject to appropriate scientific checks, the extension of the list of medicinal products, intermediate products and active substances covered by the agreement on zero customs duties. the proposal sends a strong signal to the markets. firstly, it confirms the commitment of some important members of the world trade organisation to the free market. it also has the effect of widening the boundaries of the potential market for the results of certain areas of scientific research and thus encouraging investment in those areas and thereby the fight against diseases for which there is still no effective cure. finally, the proposal is an example for those countries for which medicines represent a necessary item of expenditure in order to guarantee a future for the new generations, and an invitation to adopt behaviour that can favour the adoption of development and wealth creation policies.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, in addition to congratulating the rapporteur, mr moreira, with whom i agree on the need for periodic reviews to update the lists of medicinal products exempt from customs duties, i can only stress that, thanks to the new mechanism, the final consumer will benefit. i voted in favour because i think it is important to review periodically the list of medicinal products which are not subject to customs duties in view of the rapidly changing production environment in which the pharmaceutical industry operates. all member states supported the previous amendments and are in favour of the list of products resulting from the fourth revision. so, in congratulating myself on the work done, i reiterate my positive vote.
in writing. - we support the proposal for a regulation on the exemption from customs duties of certain active ingredients as they relate to pharmaceutical and chemical products essential to the pharmaceutical industry. the revision was necessary both to include new products and to delete others. this choice was made in agreement with the parties concerned and with the unanimous consent of all participants and all member states.
in writing. - i congratulate my colleague patrão neves on bringing to the attention of this house the renewal of the partnership agreement with the solomon islands. the new lisbon treaty gives the european parliament greater powers on fisheries partnership agreements and the reform of the common fisheries policy means that the new agreements commit to promoting responsible and sustainable fishing in all areas of the world. i voted in favour because the agreement in question provides for the promotion of cooperation at subregional level, thus respecting the european objective of strengthening the framework of regional fisheries management organisations as a means of promoting fisheries governance. i am also convinced that the european union's relations with the solomon islands, whose sea is rich in tuna, are of considerable economic interest. this will support the economic efficiency of the european union's tuna fishing industry in the pacific, ensuring access to 4,000 tonnes of fish, a considerable amount for the industry and the european market, also in view of the expected decrease in tuna fishing opportunities in the eastern atlantic.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the proposal for a partnership agreement between the eu and the solomon islands because i believe that this agreement is in the interests of both parties in principle. i believe that cooperation on a regional basis is a great way to achieve sustainability outside eu waters and to promote fisheries governance. the agreement, in addition to establishing a stable legal framework for both parties, guarantees the islands, for a period of at least three years, a secure income which can be used in part to support the implementation of the national fisheries policy. the european union has a strong interest in its fisheries relations with the solomon islands, as they help to support the economic efficiency of the eu tuna fishing chain in the pacific ocean by ensuring access to a high quantity of fish.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate my colleague, mrs maria do céu patrão neves, on bringing to the attention of this house the renewal of the partnership agreement with the solomon islands. i voted in favour because the agreement in question provides for the promotion of cooperation at subregional level, thus respecting the european objective of strengthening the framework of regional fisheries management organisations as a means of promoting fisheries governance. finally, i agree with the rapporteur's recommendations to the commission, in particular that the european parliament and the council should be treated equally in terms of the right to be informed in a timely manner in order to properly monitor and evaluate the implementation of international fisheries agreements.
in writing. - i congratulate the rapporteur and colleague david casa on the preparation of this report which allows us to return to a fundamental issue such as vat and tax harmonization. i agree with the rapporteur that the current vat system, partly because of its increased complexity, is not keeping pace with the development of the internal market and is putting businesses and smes at a disadvantage, greatly affecting their competitiveness. moreover, the current tax legislation has many weaknesses that can be exploited by tax evaders to their illicit advantage. i therefore support the commission's proposal for a delay in the creation of a common vat system in order to give businesses the necessary legal certainty, but at the same time i urge the commission to conclude its analysis as soon as possible by drawing up, with the involvement of this house, a green paper on the revision of the vat system.
in writing. the report extends the transitional arrangements introduced by council directive 92/77/eec, which introduced a system of minimum rates of vat, stipulating that the standard rate could not be lower than 15%. since no final system of tax harmonisation has yet been established in the union, it is now common practice to set minimum rates of indirect taxation. in the field of vat, this avoids the increasing divergence between the normal rates applied in the member states leading to structural imbalances and distortions of competition. the difference between the normal rates applied currently ranges between 15% and 25% and is sufficient to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. the extension allows businesses to have the necessary legal certainty, but also to make further assessments as to the appropriate level of the standard vat rate across the eu. the commission is also urged to publish a green paper on a new vat strategy in the near future and to launch consultations on future tax harmonization. i am voting in favour of tax harmonization, which will lead to a single vat rate throughout the union.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report by mr casa, whom i congratulate on the work he has done and the cooperation he has had within the econ committee. the report proposes to extend for a further five years the current obligation for the countries of the union to apply the minimum standard vat rate of 15%. the report, in addition to stressing the importance of a minimum standard rate, goes further and stresses the need to plan a new vat strategy, as the current system, with its complexity not only in terms of tariffs, is not keeping pace with the development of the internal market. as mario monti also pointed out in his report on the relaunch of the single market, without a uniform tax system and with a different cost of living in the various member states, situations could arise that are contrary to the spirit of the single market. this puts european companies, and especially smes, at a disadvantage. moreover, the european value added tax system, as conceived and implemented by the member states, is often subject to cross-border fraud that costs billions of euros in tax revenue.
in writing. - i congratulate the rapporteur and colleague david casa on the preparation of this report which allows us to return to a fundamental issue such as vat and tax harmonization. i agree with what the honourable member has said, namely that the current vat system is not keeping pace with the development of the internal market and is actually putting businesses and smes at a disadvantage, which is having a significant impact on their competitiveness. i therefore support the commission's proposal for a delay in the establishment of a common vat system in order to give businesses the necessary legal certainty, but at the same time i urge the commission to conclude its analysis as soon as possible by drawing up, with the involvement of this house, a green paper on the revision of the vat system.
in writing. - i very much appreciate the ecb's commitment. i believe that the commission has shown that it is able to achieve the objectives assigned to it and that the level of technical competence has always been up to the task, even in times of serious crisis such as the present one. however, it is precisely the unforeseen changes in the main macroeconomic indicators that should make us reflect on the intermediate mechanisms between monetary policy and the real economy. i therefore believe that it is necessary not only to provide for the creation of other supervisory and control authorities to accompany the central bank, but also and above all to cover those areas of competence whose importance has not been recognised so far. in particular, estonia's forthcoming entry into the euro area is a source of concern. in fact, a wider monetary union requires greater internal cohesion. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs for human consumption.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr balz's report, with whom i had the opportunity to work on the dossier in the econ committee. in these last years of economic crisis, the ecb's role has been important and fundamental and often the officials of the central bank have been crucial in pointing out the problems of the euro area. the states have not always listened, but the coordination offered by the frankfurt institute can only be regarded positively. the package of aid prepared and provided to greece and the sudden responses would not have been possible without an authority and an institution like the ecb. in addition, with the recent approval of the european supervisory authorities package, the ecb will acquire greater powers and authority in monitoring and reporting system anomalies. this is essential, as is the ecb's independence and the fact that it is not under the influence of any member state.
in writing. - i congratulate the rapporteur, mr ehler, on drawing the attention of this house to a subject which is fundamental to the european union, namely civil and military cooperation. i voted in favour of this report because i share the need for closer cooperation between civilian and military capabilities in order to deal effectively with current crises and security threats, including natural disasters. i also welcome the idea of drawing up a european union white paper on security and defence, based on systematic and rigorous security and defence audits carried out by the states on the basis of common criteria and a common timetable, so that the objectives, interests and needs of the european union can be clearly defined, taking into account also the resources available. the recent emergency in haiti has also highlighted the need for the european union to have better coordination and faster deployment of forces for military activities in the event of disasters, especially with regard to air transport capabilities. given the importance of these missions, i believe that funding should be made available to you more quickly and transparently through ad hoc budget lines for each mission.
in writing. "si vis pacem, para bellum" (if you want peace, prepare for war) was the old saying. fortunately, the time for an arms race is over. however, the principle behind the latin maxim retains its meaning today. there can be no serious and credible commitment to peace if the conditions for its enforcement are not in place, in accordance with serious and objective rules. in particular, without seeking to interfere in all disputes that may arise, where interests of any kind or size are involved, the eu's weight as a major economic and political force should be felt, if necessary also through the use of military means, used to restore order and restore peace, as a prerequisite for the resolution of conflicts. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the rapporteur's report because i think this is an important subject and that the report deals with it seriously and takes account of a whole range of aspects. the cooperation envisaged in the report is a typical activity of modern peace support operations (psos), in which the military component interacts with the civilian component (local authorities, national and international organisations and agencies and non-governmental organisations) in order to restore acceptable living conditions and to initiate reconstruction. these activities shall ensure and maintain full cooperation between the military, the civilian population and local institutions with a view to creating the conditions necessary to achieve the objectives assigned. it is therefore important that the european union should support and encourage this type of cooperation.
in writing. - the anchovy fishery in the bay of biscay is of considerable social and economic importance. this fishery has been closed since 2005 and the fleet has increased from 391 vessels in that year to 239 in 2009, which has had a direct impact on over 2500 families. this closure has caused serious damage to the categories concerned, namely fishermen, people repairing fishing nets, the canning industry, etc. the loss of income was not covered by the compensatory aid granted by the member states. the implementation of the plan will allow the management of the acciuga to be removed from the political negotiations that take place every year in december and will allow it to achieve the long-term objectives of managing european resources, ensuring their sustainability and maximum profitability. the catch rule defines the tac (or total allowable catch) for each fishing year immediately after the stock assessment according to the may campaigns of each year, which allows the best possible result to be drawn from this information immediately. all the local producers concerned are waiting for this fishery to be reopened and have made a major contribution to the drafting of the text. for these reasons, my vote on the measure as a whole is positive.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, anchovy fishing in the bay of biscay is of great social and economic importance. however, this activity has been at a standstill for five years and this has had a direct impact on fishermen and their families and on the industry which revolved around this sector of work, including fishermen repairing nets and the canning industry. unfortunately, the aid put in place by the member states has not compensated for the serious loss of income. it is therefore appropriate to review this deadlock and to put in place a long-term plan to find a solution that takes account of the various requests. i therefore voted in favour of the report by my colleague, particularly as it introduces a catch rule which optimises catches by adopting the precautionary principle and also offers reliable economic ceilings for this fishery.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the rapporteur's report because i share its aim and message. i believe that as science evolves, the values used to determine biological references could be the subject of new and different scientific opinions. in these circumstances, it is obvious that the plan should provide for the possibility of adjusting the benchmarks. i agree with the rapporteur on access to the area for vessels fishing for sucker. it is appropriate to create a more flexible rule than the one suggested by the commission. vessels fishing for plaice in one zone must be able to land their catches in a port in another zone. i therefore believe that a system whereby the master of a fishing vessel would be required to record the data relating to catches and the place where they are taken is feasible and fair.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the resolution. experience gained in the baltic sea using a discard system shows that this system works properly and is feasible for certain fish species. species which give rise to by-catches may have a low market value, may be completely unfit for human consumption or may be illegal to land. the basis for the sustainable exploitation of fish stocks is thus laid without the need to lower the level of marketing standards. in order to effectively prevent by-catches and limit discards of juvenile and undersized fish, it is of key importance that the fishing industry is encouraged to use more selective gear and not to fish in areas where large quantities of undersized fish and non-target fish are present. in addition, variable rest periods adapted to the reproductive cycles of fish should be introduced. the climate in the baltic sea is changing and different fish species are adapting to it, which means that their migration and reproduction cycles are also changing. in the light of these considerations, it appears necessary to revise the protected areas.
in writing. - i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr ferreira, on the preparation of this report, on which i voted in favour. recent studies have highlighted the need to develop the european aquaculture sector and to intensify scientific research in the field of farming native species. this will ensure improved safety, quality and diversification of products offered to consumers and thus better protection of the environment. as regards the introduction of exotic species into closed aquaculture systems, which according to the commission is mainly concerned with 'aquaculture and restocking practices', i believe that this practice should be accompanied by strict surveillance of these facilities, installations and transport activities of these animals in order to avoid any escape that would disturb native ecosystems and natural habitats, representing one of the major factors that contributes most to the loss of biodiversity worldwide.
in writing. − the introduction of exotic species is one of the main elements of ecosystem disturbance and, together with the destruction of natural habitats, is one of the major contributors to the loss of biodiversity worldwide. the introduction of exotic species into european coastal seas and inland waters is in many cases due to 'aquaculture and restocking practices'. the simplification of the procedure for introducing exotic species into aquaculture should be matched by a strict definition of the requirements that closed aquaculture facilities will be required to comply with and the necessary supervision of the facilities, so as to ensure that all technical requirements proposed by the specialists are duly kept and complied with. the sustainable development of european aquaculture requires robust support for scientific research and technological development in the field of farming of native species, so as to allow diversification of production and supply of food and an improvement of its quality, while ensuring greater environmental safety. i therefore hope that strong encouragement will be given in this area.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the economic and financial crisis, which is still unfolding and which is hitting hard at the economies of the western countries, the so-called developed countries, has made it clear that the economic paradigm of efficiency and the capacity for self-regulation of the markets is no longer based on reality, since reality has called all the actors in the economy and the markets, especially the financial markets, to account, including ethics, which have recently shown their complete absence. the imbalance on the financial side of the whole economy shows that the industrial side needs to be strengthened extraordinarily, as it is still a key sector for the economy, especially the real one. taking account of the comparative and competitive advantages and disadvantages between regions, especially at international level, it cannot be forgotten that the mining sector is present in areas where it is necessary to promote the development of viable economic and employment alternatives and to strengthen social buffers which can avoid painful increases in unemployment of workers who are difficult to relocate. the report on state aid to facilitate the closure of uncompetitive coal mines, which we voted for, seems to me to be at least partly in that direction.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, given the scarcity of domestic energy sources in the union, i believe that support for the coal industry is justified by eu policies to promote renewable, lower-carbon fossil fuels for electricity production. although i do not think that this justifies indefinite support for those coal mines which prove uncompetitive. in view of the negative socioeconomic impact of the closure of mines, especially in sparsely populated regions, it is appropriate to consider the possibility of support, aid. however, in order to minimise distortions of competition in the internal market resulting from aid, the commission will be responsible for ensuring that precise and effective rules are established, maintained and enforced. on the other hand, as regards environmental protection, the member states will be required to draw up a programme of measures to mitigate the environmental impact of the use of coal in the fields of energy efficiency, renewable energy and carbon capture and storage.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by my colleague because i agree with the extension of the mandate to 2018. the 2014 deadline proposed by the commission is unjustified, also in the light of the commission's impact assessment. on the basis of the commission's impact assessment, and as a logical consequence of regulation (ec) no 1407/2002, the deadline should be set at 2018, ensuring a socially acceptable solution that does not involve collective redundancies in several member states. at a time of crisis like this, i do not think it is necessary to close factories and lay off thousands of workers across europe. moreover, the problem of pollution is not one which needs to be discussed here. in fact, if these coal mines were closed, the problem would not be solved, because the coal would be imported from abroad instead of coming from these mines. if we want to find a solution to prevent climate change, it has to be found in coal plants. it is only by transforming these types of plants that emissions will be reduced.
in writing. - i thank mr rapkay for the excellent work he has done and i agree with the amendments. i voted in favour of the measures needed to avoid the extremely negative socioeconomic impact of the closure of the mines, especially in sparsely populated regions. in view of the scarcity of domestic energy sources in the union, support to the coal industry is justified by the union policy to encourage the use of renewable and low-carbon fossil fuels for electricity generation. i therefore support the efforts being made to bring this into line with the larger 20-20-20 strategy.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of approving the report on the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly in 2009, as i consider it to be a fundamental contribution to north-south cooperation. the joint parliamentary assembly has played and continues to play a key role in involving local authorities and bodies in the negotiation of economic partnership agreements. for these reasons i join my colleagues in calling on the commission to make every effort to provide timely information and data on the negotiations, so as to facilitate and at the same time guarantee that parliament can best fulfil its role in monitoring the agreements. finally, i believe that it is essential, and not only in the negotiations in this area, to involve the european parliament in an informed way, as an institution capable of ensuring the transparency of the process and of giving voice to the needs of local realities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, as i believe that the assembly has played an important role and has worked to find solutions to problems which are sometimes not simple. although it is a consultative body, it is an important forum and meeting place for debate and for trying to meet the various needs. among the important reports and resolutions adopted were those on the situation in madagascar, on climate change, on the situation in niger and on the second review of the cotonou agreements. finally, it is worth noting the resolution on the consequences of the financial crisis for the acp countries, which shows how unfortunately these countries, although not the cause of the world turmoil, have ended up paying the highest price in terms of rising costs, reductions in aid from the rich countries and rising commodity prices.
in writing. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of the congo. the joint parliamentary assembly met twice in 2009. ten resolutions and the luanda declaration on the second revision of the cotonou partnership agreement were adopted. two regional meetings were also held during the year, in guyana (caribbean region) and burkina faso (west africa region). however, 2009 was negatively affected by the decision taken by the acp council of ministers in december 2008 to make substantial cuts in the budget of the acp secretariat for staff missions. this decision had a significant impact on the possibility of providing services for ppp meetings held in locations other than brussels. in december 2009, the acp council adopted the necessary measures to ensure that the budgetary financing for 2010 was sufficient to cover two plenary sessions, one regional meeting and a maximum of two additional missions. in this context, it is appropriate to continue work in this area and to examine additional and innovative sources of financing for development, such as a tax on international financial transactions.
in writing. - mr president, the stockholm programme envisages ambitious european policies in the field of justice and security to achieve a people's europe. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. in europe, 20% of divorces are between international couples. such divorces are sometimes marked by bureaucratic red tape and a lack of clear answers from national systems. in many cases, it is the weaker child and spouse who suffer the emotional strain and the lacerations of a judicial action. wherever possible, it would be desirable to have recourse to the institution of mediation, i.e. an amicable settlement between the parties. to that end, reference should be made to the concepts defined in directive 2008/52/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 21 may 2008 on certain aspects of mediation in civil and commercial matters and the european code of conduct for mediators. it will also be important for all citizens to have access to up-to-date and high-quality information, now available in a commission database, on the essential aspects of national and community law and procedures relating not only to separation and divorce but also to mediation.
in writing. - i abstained in the final vote on the berlinguer resolution because amendment no 2 was rejected, which is very important in order to remove possible misinterpretations of paragraph 40. it says that parliament 'strongly supports plans to allow mutual recognition of the effects of civil status acts'. the expression might suggest an obligation to recognise, for example, a union between persons of the same sex registered in a member state where such a union is permitted, throughout the european union. in fact, a distinction must be drawn between the effects of the legal act performed (in this case, the marriage) and the effects of the act of registration. the latter gives full faith to what is documented (for example that a same-sex marriage has been contracted in the netherlands) and this public faith is the effect of the civil status act. but the effects of the registered act are something else and their recognition (e.g. the survivor's pension) is not allowed in the state which does not recognise them. the question of family law is a matter of national identity and cannot be affected by community law. a possible different interpretation has led me to choose abstention.
in writing. − there are still some differences in the civil law of the 27 member states and of those which will join the eu in the near future. the action plan presented goes a step further by noting the similarities and highlighting the differences, so as to draw attention to the need to reduce these differences. in particular, as regards the matters dealt with by the committees on which i sit, i believe that the provision of common rules and the establishment of an integrated system of the administration of justice are essential to ensure the survival of the single market. while respecting legal traditions and the specific characteristics of each country, the challenges of the present day call for a joint effort to harmonize european rights. i therefore welcome the report which calls on the european commission to work towards the removal of legal barriers to the exercise of rights in the member states and the mitigation of the negative consequences of these barriers for citizens involved in crossborder judicial proceedings, both of which are essential conditions for the establishment of a 'european legal culture', which alone can guarantee the creation of a common area of freedom, security and justice in europe.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the stockholm programme is a necessary continuation of the development of the eu's area of freedom, security and justice, with a greater focus on people. greater attention not only to a more comprehensive dimension of citizenship, including respect for the human person and his dignity, but also to a dimension of law and justice that makes it accessible everywhere in the union, to assert the rights of persons, without internal borders. attention to the person who must be insured in a solidarity-based manner also because of the growing phenomenon of immigration and asylum, while strictly respecting the rules governing civil coexistence, including security. the commission's action plan is a coherent implementation of the stockholm programme. the development of the eu's areas of freedom, security and justice must, however, always take account of respect for the principle of subsidiarity, which promotes respect for the people and traditions that are an integral part of its history. the report on the civil law, commercial law, family law and private international law aspects of the stockholm programme, which we voted for, seems to me to be moving in that direction.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report on the action plan for the implementation of the stockholm programme because i consider the progress made in the area of freedom, security and justice to be fundamental. since its creation, in fact, enormous progress has been made in the field of justice, including civil justice. i believe that the legal approaches and constitutional traditions of the different member states must be respected, but i also believe that the existence of such diversity must be seen as the strength to be used to achieve the objective of further development of european law. the european judiciary must be involved in this process, and its contribution should strengthen the idea of a genuine european judicial culture through the sharing of knowledge and the study of comparative law. i therefore fully support the proposal to create a forum where judges who frequently deal with crossborder issues, such as maritime, commercial, family and personal injury cases, can find an opportunity for comparison and growth. finally, i believe that the stockholm action plan must aim, on the basis of these premises, to fully satisfy the need for european justice felt by individual citizens and businesses in the exercise of their rights and freedoms.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the berlinguer report on the fundamental aspects of the transition to a people's europe and the development of a european judicial culture. in particular, the report addresses in a balanced and comprehensive manner issues concerning the training of judges, cooperation between judicial authorities, european contract law, fundamental rights, including the right to freedom of establishment to develop entrepreneurial capacity in the various sectors of the economy, and the mutual recognition of official documents of national public administrations, including the effects of civil status acts.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a resolution on the positive law aspects of the stockholm programme action plan, i.e. the european union's priorities for the development of an area of freedom, security and justice in the period 2010-2014, as regards specifically the aspects of civil, commercial and private international law. the dossier calls on the commission to improve the proposal by overcoming certain problems and criticisms which are particularly common in transnational judicial practice. the assistance of national magistrates on the technical aspects of the proposed measures in the legislative drafting process and the establishment of an autonomous european remedy, which would make it possible, among other things, to resolve, at least in part, the problems raised by differences in national procedural laws, are concrete examples of the constructive and improving approach that a resolution proposal which is shared and widely discussed can have with respect to european legislation. in an area as important to citizens as civil law, it is necessary to respect and make room for radically different legal approaches and constitutional traditions, but it is also necessary to address the negative legal consequences for citizens resulting from this divergence.
in writing. − i hope that the actions identified in the action plan will be carried out in the timeframe envisaged, given their importance in improving the lives of european citizens. italy in particular has always supported the need to develop mutual trust between the member states of the union and is in favour of an ever greater extension of community regulation in the field of justice and home affairs. in this context, the approach of the whole action plan, which is strongly based on the principle of mutual recognition of decisions, to be achieved by strengthening mutual trust, was shared and supported. i also stress the need to use all possible means to foster a european judicial culture, in particular through legal education and training.
in writing. - i welcome the importance given to civil law issues, such as the legislative proposal on enhanced cooperation in the field of divorce legislation, the recognition and establishment of authentic instruments in matters of succession. i particularly welcome the emphasis on the need to introduce concrete actions and programmes to promote an effective european legal culture, starting with the provision of training measures, to be held in the framework of erasmus projects, for judges and all legal practitioners. the actions identified in the plan are of great importance to improve the legal protection of european citizens, but a more strategic and less fragmented approach is needed, based on the real needs of citizens and businesses in exercising their rights. if we are to consider the difficulties of harmonizing legislation in an area of shared competence, we must also consider the need for greater extension of community legislation in the field of justice and home affairs. in this way, legal certainty will have increasingly clear and shared parameters and we will lay the foundations for a truly common legal theory and practice in the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that parliament is called upon to confirm its line, a line of responsibility, vision and unity. we want to give europe a budget that is worthy of it. the european citizens, the young, the businesses, the farmers, the municipalities and regions, the workers and the unemployed need a budget with a moderate, sustainable and realistic increase. if this budget is still not there, it is not the fault of this parliament, which is spending money and forgetting the crisis we are living in, but it is the fault of some selfish national governments, falsely moralistic, ready for demagogy and ready, as in the case of great britain, to claim unjust privileges for almost thirty years. if three governments are selfish and evil, the other 24 cannot be succubus, but must react, mr president, minister wathelet, must show their attributes! as for the vision, we care about the future of our citizens. the lisbon treaty and the europe 2020 strategy give us new tasks, new duties and new ambitions to build a better tomorrow. how do we accomplish these tasks? how do we put these shared ambitions into practice? with what money are we going to make another fraud like the lisbon strategy, which was never implemented but certainly not through the fault of the european parliament? finally, as regards unity, we mean unity among ourselves in the european parliament and unity with the commission. i am very pleased with the speech by president barroso this evening. we don't need chamomile, we need to show muscle with reason but with determination. we have a unity on this issue which is a precious asset, an extraordinary force representing 500 million citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this week we were supposed to approve the general budget of the european union for 2011. we are faced with a situation where europe is in serious danger of having to start the new year on a provisional basis and with the strong brake represented by the application of the twelfths system. as is now well known, parliament, the commission and the majority of the member states were ready for an agreement, which was blocked by a minority of countries which refused to start a constructive discussion with parliament on the implementation of the lisbon treaty. i think that our position as a parliament in the negotiations was responsible and moderate. parliament has called, and continues to call, for the application of the lisbon treaty. the council, on the other hand, has proved unable to reach agreement and has been deeply divided on matters of fundamental importance, on which a minority of states have vetoed, refusing to enter into a discussion with parliament on the rules and procedures which should guide the implementation of the lisbon treaty. today, however, we have the duty to look ahead, to build together the europe of the future - i repeat, together, council, parliament and commission - without selfishness or prevarication. parliament, by accepting the limit imposed by the council on payment appropriations, the famous 2.91%, wanted to send a strong signal of sensitivity to the period we are living through. but we all agree, as the commission has also said today, that we need more flexibility to meet europe's needs. i appreciate what president barroso said today about the proposals the commission will make on own resources and the lisbonisation of the eu budget and i hope that the council will cooperate more closely in building the europe of the future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the failure of the trilogue is an important political moment for reflection on the recent history of europe. it is not only a political but also a cultural problem, which affects many member states. the current economic and financial crisis is structural and not transitory, and in fact represents a transformation affecting the economy, work and society of our time. if there is no political and cultural growth with a global vision of europe, we will not be able to overcome the problems of the beginning of the third millennium, such as welfare, research, energy and environmental policies and security, which can only be solved by a political synthesis of all the states that make up the union. i say to us in this house that if the trilogue has failed, the work done by parliament is an outstanding one, in full respect of what our popular representation is. today, thanks to lisbon, parliament has more say and the council can no longer play the role of a steering committee in relation to the popular sovereignty which parliament represents ... (the president cut off the speaker)
i would remind you that 30 years ago there was a terrible earthquake which struck some regions of italy, irpinia and basilicata, and which caused thousands and thousands of victims. i think we can all express our closeness, our sympathy and our solidarity with the families and the territories that were affected. the agenda includes a statement by josé manuel barroso, president of the european commission, on the presentation of the commission's work programme for 2011.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank all the honourable members for their positive and kind words concerning the commission’s work programme. if you look through your interventions, you will see that there is a considerable convergence in the goals we would like to achieve together. i think it is because the commission’s work programme was to a great extent our joint endeavour. the structural dialogue we introduced this year, the intense communication between the committees and the commissioners really paid off. we ended up with a commission work programme that contains the converging aims between parliament and the commission. several of you highlighted the importance of focusing on appropriate implementation, so that our programmes and proposals would not simply stay on paper. i absolutely understand this request and, therefore, we also included in the commission’s work programme monitoring of the ongoing work. i will be very happy to come to parliament on a regular basis and to brief you on how we are progressing and implementing the commission’s work programme so we can have a debate, not just once a year but on a regular basis, about how we are progressing with the fulfilment of the commission’s work programme. so far this year, out of the 34 initiatives we promised for this year, we will definitely fulfil 30. this is relatively good progress but, of course, we will be ready to discuss this issue further with you and to keep you informed on a regular basis. i am also very glad that you urge us to do more, not less, with some exceptions. this is, of course, a very welcome tendency from parliament towards the commission. i agree with all of you who say that we need to do better. we have not only to perform well to fulfil our goals, but we need to show that with high-quality work we can use the result as the best counter-argument and best instrument to tackle euroscepticism in europe and the ghosts of the past, which always emerge when we face tough times: protectionism, racism, xenophobia and many of the phenomena you have just described here. with good work and good cooperation, we can tackle these ghosts of the past. it is true that we need a lot of investment in infrastructure, but we are also absolutely sure that we need modern infrastructure. if we want to compete on a global level and to preserve our competitive edge, it is very clear that we need to upgrade our infrastructure. it is not only important for our economic goals, but it is also important for the greening of our economies and for resource-efficient economies to be developed. for that we need to use, more than ever, the project-oriented eu bonds, we need to engage more with the eib and we need to find ways to use public-private partnerships more in the future. you will also find this in our programme. regarding the single market, i welcome all the remarks and the focus on the single market because this is really the eu’s main crown jewel. we have achieved a lot with the single market and we know that we can achieve even more if we can release the potential of the single market. we need to get rid of the barriers to the single market that still remain, we need to get rid of bottlenecks and we need to use the new areas of the economy. some of you referred to the digital economy and how much we could improve life in europe if we used more e-services, e-government or e-commerce, and these are new areas in which we have to engage more. mario monti presented an excellent report and michel barnier used this report as a basis for our range of proposals. we started the debate on how to make the european single market better, more open and more competitive, so that it brings us even better results than we have today. so let us participate and look at which of the proposals michel barnier put on the table could be the most important ones and which proposals should have higher priority. i believe that together we will achieve a better and stronger single market. regarding the administrative burden, as you know günter verheugen included in the programme a reduction in the administrative burden by 25% before 2012. i am very happy to tell you that the commission is working very hard so that this limit will be passed. now we are aiming to reach the level of 30%, but we also need to be very clear that it is not only the commission that can deliver results. very often the administrative burden increases at national level when they are implementing european legislation with different kinds of strings attached. we need to work on this issue from both levels, from a european level and also from a national level. concerning the importance of the social dimension of the european single market, i absolutely agree with you. we learned the lessons of the past and we will be coming with proposals on posted workers, on a time directive and also on the services of general interest, which would reflect this very important social dimension, because we know that the single market will work only when it is embraced by the citizens. therefore we need to include this very solid social impact assessment into the proposals we make so we know that the proposals we will be bringing to citizens will be accepted and supported by them. ms tzavela made a very passionate plea related to the potential brain drain, that we are losing young well-educated europeans who go to work elsewhere outside the european union. sometimes it is because of remaining barriers on the labour market in europe, sometimes it is because of a lack of information, but often it is also because our education does not match the needs of european businesses. therefore i am very glad that in a few moments you will start the discussion on the new flagship initiative. i see that my colleagues, commissioner vassiliou and commissioner andor, are here. they will explain how we would like to do it better, how to match the skills with the needs in such a way that young people will not be unemployed but will bring their potential to the european economy, and we will all benefit from that. several of you highlighted the importance of the regulation of financial markets and the importance of fast decision-making and how we should achieve it. we have already highlighted that, in future, we need to progress with better coordination between parliament, the commission and the council. we would like to do it in a new form of union programming, where we will decide on the priorities, the timing and the deadlines, so we can deliver the results faster and can accelerate the legislative process even at a faster pace than today. i can assure you that, as regards the multiannual financial framework, we will do our utmost to bring an ambitious project to you. we need your help in explaining at all levels – to the media, to national audiences – the proportions of this debate, how much we in europe can achieve with just 1% of gdp, the structure of the european budget with almost 95% of this budget going back to national economies with high value-added from the european union. this debate must also be taken to the national capitals and we need to talk to citizens, to inform them about how this budget is structured so we can gain strong support for our ambitious proposals. elmar brok referred to very important areas in external relations – the eastern partnership, the enlargement process – where we also need to work for credibility on both sides. we must be very credible in how we negotiate and monitor the criteria that are fulfilled by the candidate countries, but we must also be credible in what we are offering to candidates so that we have trust built on both sides. the united states is a very important partner and, if we manage to get rid of some of the barriers to mutual trade, it would be enormously beneficial and i agree that we need to invest more effort in this area. on trade, you know that europe is ready to negotiate and is ready to move, but we need partners. we cannot just forge agreements when we are not sure that they will be equally matched by the other side. but i agree that we need to be tackling this issue all the time, coming up with proposals and looking for new openings, because global trade will definitely benefit the global economy and this is what most of the world economy needs at this moment. lastly, on freedom, security and justice, we are fully aware that this is one of the areas of major interest and concern for our citizens and this is why we devoted such a large proportion of our programme to this area. i am sure that my colleagues, mrs malmström and mrs reding, will pay attention to how to tackle all these concerns, which have been raised both in this debate and in the structural dialogue they had with their respective committees.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the december partsession. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the commission's statement on the agenda for new skills and new jobs.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my speech is not intended to be the usual eurosceptic rhetorical exercise, but an impulse for the eu to start paying more attention to the content than the container and to abandon propaganda in favour of concreteness. after the failure of the lisbon strategy, europe has devised a new slogan, 'eu 2020', but in reality it has not given any innovative answer to employment problems. the data confirms this: the unemployment rate in europe is 9.6%, youth unemployment 20.2%. in italy, the third largest net contributor to the eu budget, the situation for young people is even more dramatic, with 25.9% of young people out of work. the europe i want is not a waste of resources in promotional campaigns, but an efficient investment so that training prepares professionals for the internal market sector, where there are real job opportunities. i would like to conclude by stressing the importance of investing in vocational training, which is a symbol of the excellence of our territories. the craft sector offers employment potential and a unique wealth of knowledge which must be entrusted with the task of supporting the competitiveness of the european system.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are aiming to identify the needs of the labour market in the coming years. we are therefore talking about the future of young europeans, the professions and the economies that will support our community from tomorrow onwards. we have been debating for too long what kinds of jobs will be available in ten years' time, how the skills and competencies required will change across the union. we are constantly asking ourselves whether the education and training provided to european citizens today will be useful in helping them to find work more easily. i wonder how the european commission intends to take further steps to achieve the objectives it has set itself. are we sure that we know all the needs of young people? are we confident that e-learning is the answer, or can we look at new and more impactful forms of education and training? there are only six months left to complete the pilot project launched in may 2010 and it is already time for budgets. will we get a positive result? will they be encouraging? we must aim to train young people with european education policies which anticipate future needs. i just heard a long list of "we have to do"s. to use medical terminology, i've heard of so many diagnoses and so little treatment. we must not limit ourselves to mere demagogy but work with concrete ideas, as the europe 2020 strategy requires. this is the challenge that all member states must face together with business and this is the best legacy we can leave to our children.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, commissioner, there is no doubt that at a time of such great difficulty for the european union, the fact that you have the courage and the determination to take forward an initiative such as that presented by the commissioners cannot but be noted with great favour. more targeted training, real education aimed at acquiring knowledge and skills for the labour market, the development of young people through their training and knowledge which must be enriched on a daily basis, a labour market which needs new skills but which also needs to make the best use of migration flows. the four objectives are positive, but there is no doubt that the many instruments which the commission still has at its disposal must be made to work as well as possible. it is necessary to be farsighted and farsighted, but at the same time the new frontier of technology must guide these choices so that the 2020 strategy is consistent with careful training and a real will to facilitate a labour market that is at the service of european society and especially at the service of young people.
member of the commission. - mr president, first of all i would like to say to mr papastamkos that i agree with him completely. i was a few days ago in berlin at a large forum called 'soul for europe' attended by all the representatives of the cultural institutions. we have discussed these issues and said that europe is not just an economic union but that it started with culture. i should also point out that jean monnet in his memoirs says that 'if it were to start from scratch it would start with civilization'. so i agree completely and our efforts are in that direction. i agree with you, but i fear, like everyone else, that governments, when they start cutting budgets in times of austerity, start with the obvious: culture as we have seen already in certain cases education and health. i agree it is a very narrow-minded policy and we should oppose it because, in the long run, we shall all feel the repercussions of such cuts.
member of the commission. − in 2007 the commission set up a structured dialogue with sports stakeholders on the basis of the 2007 white paper on sport. following calls from eu sports ministers and the european council in 2008, the commission committed itself to further strengthening the dialogue and to giving international sports organisations a more prominent place in the dialogue with the european union. this has led to regular exchanges between the commission and the international olympic committee and international sports federations. in 2008 the commission established the eu sport forum. this is considered to be at the heart of this structured dialogue, gathering together once a year all key sports stakeholders at international, european and national level, including governing bodies as well as non-governmental sports organisations. the next forum will take place in february 2011 in budapest, where the commission intends to present its communication on a new eu sports agenda to sports stakeholders. the commission has paid great attention to the need to ensure a balanced and inclusive representation of the sports movement when organising meetings and events. it is committed to this dialogue, taking into account the specific organisation of sport, the complexity of topics to be addressed and, of course, the diversity of sports actors. the reinforcement of this structured dialogue with the sports movement will be essential for the success of the eu agenda for sport, which the commission intends to propose, based on the lisbon treaty. within this strengthened dialogue, member states, parliament and the commission should all have their place.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the ratification of the treaty of lisbon and the recognition of the specific nature of sport have opened the way to a genuine european dimension in sport. new provisions allow the european union to support, coordinate and complement the actions of the member states by promoting neutrality and transparency in sports competitions and cooperation between sports organisations. the importance of protecting the physical and moral integrity of athletes, particularly young athletes, is also recognised. in the light of the treaty, what does the european commission expect from the international sports federations in order to initiate an increasingly constructive dialogue on matters of common interest? what concrete action does the commission intend to take to promote this dialogue and to make full use of the powers conferred by the treaty in the field of sport?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have listened very carefully to the commission's reply. i would like to ask the commission what its position is on illegal betting, which is a major feature of sports competitions, not just football competitions, and whether it intends to give particular weight to this aspect of the programme, which you have just mentioned, and which is liable to alter all competition to the detriment of the fairness that should be a feature of sports competitions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, alfred nobel, the founder of the peace prize, wrote in his will that human rights are a prerequisite for brotherhood between nations and that a prize of this magnitude should be awarded to someone who has fought and sacrificed in the name of freedom, democracy and human rights. liu xiaobo, the chinese dissident and nobel peace prize winner, was a great advocate of these values throughout his life. in the course of his long and non-violent struggle he has always stressed that all these rights are constantly violated in china by violent repressive methods. he himself suffered the forced sentence of imprisonment without the possibility of a fair trial and communication with the outside world. that is why we as european institutions must do everything possible to secure its release. first the rights and then economic and trade relations, otherwise we europeans will have to consider ourselves defeated.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is extremely dangerous to talk about bureaucratization. most of the time, that shot goes in the back. i hope that's not the case with us. i am very pleased, commissioner, that in your communication on the reform of the cap you have proposed a simplified system, especially for small farms. that is commendable. some things are doable. if, for example, we are already faced with multiannual commitments in the agri-environment programme, requiring farmers to submit new applications for exactly the same areas every year, then this is a huge nonsense. we must go much further in our thinking and find more substantial simplifications, especially for small firms, without, of course, losing sight of the objective that the objective must be respected and, ultimately, fraud must be prevented. in the end, we want a cap where the flowers bloom on the meadows and not the notes on the desks.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, unfortunately every year the report of the european court of auditors shows that the resources allocated to the common agricultural policy are not always used in a fair and transparent way. we are therefore forced to reconcile two different requirements: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would just like to make a suggestion to the commissioner, since he has said that he is open to any suggestions that may come from this house. all rural development measures implemented by the member states and regions do not always go in the direction of simplification, but add bureaucracy to bureaucracy. the commissioner should transfer the best practices that are being implemented in european regions and countries to all other countries and regions.
member of the commission. - i am very pleased to see that at this late hour so many people are talking about simplifying the cap. i think we are simple when we are clear with ourselves and when we know exactly what we want, and this is also reflected in the normative acts we develop. of course, the proposals come from the commission and they are adopted in the council and in parliament. i therefore have great hope that when we are drawing up the legislative package together, we will know just as well, in a clear and simple way, what we want and that we will avoid the specific exceptions and additions which then mean that the commission has to go and check them on the ground, since it is the same commission which also has the responsibility of reporting to you - parliament - on the proper use of public money. of course, i do not think that the cap is preventing farmers from working. in many cases it is the common agricultural policy that helps farmers to work. simply put, when it comes to public money, everyone should be accountable for how that public money is used. there is european legislation which translates into standards for the agricultural sector, and i have to say that the agricultural sector is perhaps one of the only economic sectors for which legislation at european level is actually monitored on the ground. i do not know if this is the case in other sectors, but we have decided together that this is the way it should be. the standards that are so much talked about are merely the translation of european legislation into practice. what is perceived as complex is precisely this legislation on the environment and animal welfare. these are also the procedures for certain specific measures, in particular agri-environmental measures, for which there is specific financial support, as well as investment measures often found in investment programmes, in particular the rural development programme. i agree that in the legislation as it is translated into practice there are things that need to be done to clarify what farmers have to do. but we must also be clear about the procedures for specific measures: if we want specific measures which take account of the specificity of one region or another, we must also have specific controls, otherwise we are not credible. i agree with mr capoulas santos that we must go as far as possible in simplification, but i would not like to go so far that at some point we are no longer credible, that we are no longer able to manage properly the money that is made available for the common agricultural policy, and i hope that this budget will be just as consistent in the future as well. this consistency will also depend on our ability to justify and account for the way the money is used. for the sake of transparency, there is a decision of the court of justice. what i can tell you is that i still want that transparency. the regulation currently in force will be adapted to take account of this judgment. i shall stop speaking here, but i can assure you that i shall continue to take decisions with a view to simplification or at any rate to ensure that the common agricultural policy does not become more complicated. i repeat, we will have to do this work together and with the member states, since i have told you about the measures taken to reduce the bureaucracy in relation to what the commission asks of the member states. the management of the cap is shared with the member states and what translates at the bottom for the beneficiary, the farmer, depends on how the member states and regions translate this european legislation. since the guides to good practice are useful, we will also work on them, but first let us try to make the common agricultural policy simple and clear for the 27 member states. now, with the codecision, you too have the same responsibility as the council in this area, and i am confident that we can work well together.
author of the book. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the resolution we are about to vote on represents the approach of the committee on agriculture and rural development to the policy of support for european beekeeping. this is an important document which, as is the custom of the committee on agriculture, has been attended by all the groups in this house, who have made their valuable contribution to the achievement of the result. despite the recent increase in the annual budget for measures to improve the general conditions for the production and marketing of apiculture products, there remains widespread concern about the many challenges and problems that beekeeping will face in the near future. the difficult conditions of production and marketing, the high and prolonged volatility of prices and the difficulties arising from the increasingly widespread mortality of the bee herd are some of the factors which make one of the most important sectors of our agriculture critical. european beekeepers, like all other operators in the primary sector, must be able to plan their activities. as the current support depends on the existing modalities for implementing the european agricultural policy, the future of this policy after 2013 is uncertain. it is in this context that today's resolution is being put forward, in which we call on the commission to take an active part in the protection and defence of beekeeping. the main demands made to the commission in the motion for a resolution are: a concrete commitment, after the expiry of the national programmes, also in view of the new challenges and problems in the sector, such as bee mortality, price volatility, etc.; commitments to the necessary improvement of statistical record-keeping, to greater effectiveness of controls on extra-eu honey imports and to the development of research; the strengthening of the role of european veterinary policy; an action plan to address the phenomenon of widespread bee mortality, including through concrete research commitments; increased financial support in the field of training and education of operators and, finally, a renewed and leading role for the apiculture sector in the common agricultural policy after 2013. in thanking mr lulling and all the other members for the work they have done together, i would like to remind you, mr president, commissioner, that we are now coming to the end of the international year of biodiversity. we therefore hope that the adoption of the resolution will definitely mark the start of the process of reviving a sector which is particularly strategic from the point of view of environmental sustainability and the maintenance of biodiversity, as well as in terms of economic and social impact.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, with some 600 000 entrepreneurs and just under 14 million hives at community level, beekeeping is a sector of considerable importance for the agricultural sector in the union. this importance is underlined by its role as a defender of biodiversity and as a producer of honey, a complete foodstuff rich in nutrients, whose quality is recognised as being among the highest. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organisation of the market in beef and veal is based on the principle of the common organisation of the market in beef and veal. this funding will be used to support beekeeping, including through national research projects on new methods of combating the high mortality of bees, which has recently reached alarming levels. on the other hand, however, it is important to ensure fair transparency in the distribution of aid and to guarantee more resources to the states which actually need them. the amendment i tabled was voted on in the committee on agriculture when it was discussed, and it calls for aid to be distributed on the basis of the number of herrings in the various member states, not on the basis of estimates. i think this is extremely important in order to ensure transparency for public spending and protection for those who actually practice apiculture. in many countries a system for the census of hives is already in operation, but we take account of the difficulty of implementing it in other states and propose that, as from 2012, a transparent beekeeping programme be launched throughout the european union, which will certainly have an effect on the incomes of many beekeepers.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, beekeeping has made great strides in the last decade from an economic and entrepreneurial point of view, transforming itself from a purely hobby to a genuine income-generating business, as well as being an emblematic example of green production. this has been made possible by public, national and european action. unfortunately, due to a number of factors, we are seeing an increase in bee mortality which is putting at risk not only the beekeepers in their planning but also agriculture and the environment. many plants of agricultural interest depend on bees and, more generally, the balance of the ecosystem and the maintenance of biodiversity. i ask the commission to act quickly with an action plan to tackle the widespread mortality of bees, but above all, in view of the cap after 2013, i ask that beekeeping be given its rightful place and that it be possible to consider increasing community co-financing from 50 to 75%.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the guest of honour in this debate is the president of the ecb, mr trichet. if we were in the ancient roman senate, a senator would stand up in his toga and, turning to trichet, say: "quousque tandem abutere, trichete, patientia nostra? "what is the meaning of this phrase? " we must ask ourselves whether the right course is to avoid the dissolution of the euro - a very difficult task - or rather to prevent the rescue of the euro from bringing about the ruin of our economies in the member states, after the euro-friendly policy, from prodi onwards, has destroyed our industries, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, for example those in padania, creating only unemployment and cash integration. why should the countries that survive the crisis bleed themselves dry to save almost 100 billion euros from an ireland which, with its 12.5% corporate tax policy, has so far been unfairly competing with other countries? where was european governance when, one month after passing its stress tests, the anglo-irish bank plunged into an €8 billion deficit? where was trichetus, trichetus to the vocative? are we sure that the irish bailout package does not violate the maastricht treaty? fortunately, in germany there is a constitutional court which will declare it unconstitutional to charge another country's deficit to the german budget. so, hello euro, hello euro, how are you?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to make a political assessment of what has been said in the debate. we, the members of the main european political families, rightly reproach the eurosceptics for not believing in europe. but i think the real problem is that perhaps in europe we do not believe in ourselves, and therefore we cannot blame the eurosceptics for what is our specific responsibility. we are the main european political families and we have always had strong and great europeanist ideals. but the fact is that all the governments that are the expression of our political families are putting their hands to the wheel every day to make these great political projects come to fruition. so, in many cases, you undo at night what you say you want to do during the day. this calls for a further responsibility, because if we are not able to guide the debate on the implementation of specific projects, from eurobonds to the issue of european union bonds, we will have a hard time explaining to our citizens that we are the same parties that at home every day blame europe for everything and say that we can only get out of the crisis if europe reduces its own expenditure. i believe that this is a fundamental principle of responsibility, which is forgotten, and the very nature of the european project is lost, and we lose credibility by getting in return only empty halls and deserted ballot boxes for up to 40% of our citizens.
president of the commission. − mr president, i will answer two concrete questions and also make a general remark after the debate that took place this morning. first of all, a question raised by mr schulz: an important one about the irish stress tests. let me say the following. the common methodology of the stress tests was agreed at european level; it was very rigorous, with adverse macroeconomic scenarios. however, the implementation of the tests was carried out under the responsibility of the national supervisory authorities. it was coordinated at european union level by the cebs, but there were no european union competences for that. i want to underline that, until recently, the european union as such did not have this kind of responsibility. this is going to change next january. we will have the new architecture of financial regulation and supervision in place by then, following commission proposals and agreement with the council and in parliament. we will have the three european micro-prudential supervisors for banking, securities and insurance, and the european systemic risk board for macro-financial stability and the risks associated with it. and that will provide much stronger tools and infrastructure to carry out the tests next time in a more unified, rigorous and coherent manner. so i want to underline this point. before the crisis we did not have the instruments that we are creating now. then i come to the second issue concerning the way we are now dealing with some sensitive issues like the permanent crisis mechanism. i want to make it clear that it was not my intention to raise the point but, since there was a concrete question, i have to reply. unanimously – and i repeat unanimously – the heads of state and government decided to ask for a permanent crisis mechanism with the intervention of the private sector. i was one of those who warned the european council about the risks of raising this issue without proper preparation and communication. but the issue was raised and decided and now we have to deal with it in the most responsible way. that is why i believe some of the comments made here today were really not helpful. we are still living in very difficult conditions. i think what we need now is action and not more comments. we are dealing with very sensitive global financial markets. some of the comments sometimes have a self-fulfilling prophecy effect. so it is not helpful to start speculating about countries that may be at risk. what we have to ask those countries is to implement all the measures that are necessary for achieving financial and budgetary stability. that is why i am not going to speculate about plan b. we, together with president van rompuy, are doing our work, discussing the issues with responsibility with our member states. regarding the role of the commission, i want to be extremely clear once again. the commission – and this was acknowledged by most of you – has always been putting forward ambitious proposals. we are for ambitious economic governance for europe. but in the end we have to be realistic. together we cannot go beyond what is established by common agreement with our member states. when there is an agreement – an agreement that anyhow represents progress compared to the previous situation – it is not helpful to speak about ideal solutions that you very well know will not come into effect. so the commission is fulfilling its role, and will fulfil its role, asking for more ambition in terms of common purpose, economic governance, stability of the euro area – and not only of the euro area. i want to make that point very clearly because i think it was not made during this debate today. some of you said the problems are in the euro area. i am sorry to say they are not only in the euro area. the euro has not been the problem. i am absolutely convinced that the situation would be much worse if we did not have the euro. (applause)some of you tend to forget that some countries that are not in the euro area have exactly the same problems, in some cases even worse problems of sovereign debt, and that a country that is not even in the european union and that is now asking to join the european union – iceland – went bankrupt, and they do not have the euro. the reality is that the euro was not the cause of the problem. it is intellectually and politically dishonest to suggest that the problem is with the euro. (applause)what we have to do now is recognise the specificities of the situation in the euro area, to address the problems and ask all the member states to give a commitment to work collectively: those who are in the euro area and those who are not. i think they have all understood that there is a common interest in a common approach to resolve this crisis. that is what the commission will do, in a responsible way, pushing of course for the highest level of ambition, but in the end working in good, loyal cooperation with all the institutions, with this parliament, as we have done, and with the council and european council. that is the responsible method that we have to follow. in a period where markets are extremely nervous, we should keep cool heads and we should keep a strong sense of responsibility, also of course with a strong sense of common european purpose. (applause)
president of the european council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, earlier it was said that there was a difference between the analysis of the president of the commission and mine, but this is the first time, mr schulz, that i have been accused of singing the song 'all is well, madame la marquise'. it's the first time in my entire career. i can assure you that i do not in any way underestimate the crisis and that we are living in serious times. unless some of my remarks are taken out of context, i am a very cautious man and i think that far too many inflammatory and other statements are being made - not here - in the european context. the time is now for calm and not for a repeat of the depth of the crisis. we know enough. it's time to act. some of you said we should learn from this. there's a french proverb that says, "our deeds follow us". when i took up this office, there was a stability and growth pact, which was made a little more flexible a few years ago and which was not implemented. when i took office, i inherited the lisbon treaty, which provides for certain procedures, among other things, on sanctions, among other things, on the decision to be taken when a country is put under the excessive deficit procedure. the council decides on this, according to the lisbon treaty. when i took office, there was no crisis mechanism. we had to fix all that. we will therefore strengthen the stability and growth pact and introduce a system of macroeconomic surveillance for the first time. i can assure you that if we had had this mechanism a few years ago, the problems in some countries would never have happened. we would have discovered the housing bubbles. we would have discovered the problems of competitiveness of some countries. we're going to introduce him now. it's an innovation, it's a new one. we're learning the lessons of the crisis. as for the lisbon treaty, it is intended to give a permanent crisis mechanism a legal basis, as opposed to certain constitutional courts. that's the only reason. i hope we will not risk reopening a great debate on the institutions, which would lead us nowhere, in my view, in the present context, and would further distance us from the energy we must devote to combating the crisis. there was no crisis mechanism. when we faced the problem of greece, we had to invent a mechanism. there wasn't any. when we took another measure, the 750 billion for the other crisis, we had to interpret the lisbon treaty in a creative way in order to put it into practice. so we are learning all the lessons of the crisis and i say: "our actions follow us". we had a stability pact that was weak and unenforced, we had nothing on macroeconomic surveillance and there was no crisis mechanism. and have our member states taken their responsibilities? many of them have taken up their responsibilities. they engage in reform policies often against the mainstream of public opinion. they often take very courageous action, not only in countries where there is tension but also in other countries. we take responsibility. my dear colleagues, we must not always be mistaken about the enemy. i often get the impression that we are too much directed towards the governments and parliaments of the member states. let's not mistake the enemy. so today, some people are talking not only about ireland but also about portugal, and let me quote the figures here. the government deficit was 9.3 in 2009. it will be 7.3 in 2010. it will be 4.6 in 2011. the average interest rate on portuguese public debt is 3.6%. that's extremely low. the country is not suffering from a housing crisis, a housing bubble. its financial sector is not too high compared to the country. its banks are well capitalized. let's not mistake the enemy. if some say that there is a contagious movement, it is not based on economic grounds, it is not based on rational grounds. i wanted to tell you. let's not mistake the enemy. those who have advocated cooperation between the institutions can be assured that at the level of the presidencies we are doing everything to work together. the report of the task force was approved by its members, including the member of the european commission responsible. and also in other areas, for the permanent crisis mechanism, we work hand in hand. i hope we can return to this spirit when we draw up the 2011 budget. i regret that we were unable to reach an agreement. but speaking of cooperation, let me make a point. you are all members of the european parliament from certain political families. i have to say that there is a very big difference at times between what i hear in the european council, through the prime minister and through the various parties, and what i also hear in this house from the same members of the same political family. that's not a reproach. you don't have to agree with your political party all the way. in my career, i have often witnessed confrontations within my party. but when it comes to coherence and cooperation between the institutions, i do everything i can to ensure that there is cooperation. i would therefore say that we must also cooperate at all political levels to ensure that there is a more coherent position than today. i agree with those who say that there is a policy of austerity and that we will not get out of this by a policy of austerity alone. that's right, but you have to go through it. if we had been more careful, both macroeconomically and budgetarily, we would not be where we are today. but there must also be a positive policy for growth and employment. i am pleased that, despite all the negative elements, economic growth in europe has returned after some eleven months of recession. i have said it on other occasions in this parliament too, the crisis of the 1930s, which also began with a financial crisis, has never been solved. we have returned to positive growth eleven months after the financial crisis. we will have an average growth rate of about 1.5% this year. in some countries - which are not countries facing the problems we are facing - growth will be around 2%, in some countries even 3 and 3.5%. on average, employment in the union will increase again from 2011 onwards. of course, the unemployment rate is too high, but i am glad that, compared with six months ago, our growth forecasts are much higher than we thought and that growth is more balanced than we thought. it is not just growth based on restocking or on stimulus programmes or on exports. it is also growth fuelled by domestic demand. my final point is that despite all the problems we are certainly facing in some countries, i am convinced that we will once again overcome the crisis we are facing today.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, both greece and ireland have had to resort to eu intervention. there are, however, some distinctions to be made between these two cases. the dublin deficit exploded because the country had to buffer the difficulties of the crisis-ridden banking sector from the backlash of the global financial crisis, exacerbated by the bursting of the housing bubble. this intervention, at a time of structural crisis, meant that public finances could no longer support such a situation. for greece, on the other hand, the reason for intervention is due to a poor management of public expenditure which necessitated an inflow of money from government bonds. in view of the reform of economic governance, the following observation is therefore necessary. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the budget. however, these two cases demonstrate the importance of taking account of all factors relating to the finances and soundness of a state and not just structured public debt. this may be only the final figure, but we must go and see what factors and causes are behind these figures and how we have arrived at such a situation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, apart from this question, i would like to put a question to the presidency. i think that some people have not yet fully understood the role of the european parliament after the treaty of lisbon. i am forced to raise a fundamental problem here: transport commissioner kallas has repeatedly refused to meet with the sky & space board to discuss the cesar project, which is of interest to all from the economic, environmental and safety points of view. i would ask the presidency to invite commissioner kallas to the house to explain what programme it intends to pursue in this area which is very sensitive and important for the european parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the legislative proposal voted on today, which i supported, outlines the importance of the pharmaceutical industries in their delicate role as sources of non-promotional information on their products. the pharmaceutical industry must be given greater responsibility for informing patients, and it must do this in a clear and rigorous way, helping to avoid the over-consumption of medicines for commercial reasons. the vote underlines the importance of making information on medicines available on the internet and on paper, in accordance with specific rules which are the same for all member states. this does not however detract from the essential role of healthcare professionals as the primary and irreplaceable source of information for citizens on health and care. the agency relationship between doctor and patient remains unique and irreplaceable and verbal communication is upheld as the basis of any healthcare treatment. it also allows patients to be better informed about the medicines they take, involves them in the therapy they have to undergo, and makes them key players in their healing process.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fjellner reports are intended to supplement and complete the previous community legislation on this subject, updating it and making it capable of meeting the challenges that technological development has created and poses to public health. we believe that the citizen as a patient and his right to information and access to scientific information, which is now becoming better in quality and quantity, must be monitored by a more precise and timely distinction between scientific information and advertising. the reports set out, on the basis of precise and uniform criteria, the types of information to be provided, which data are optional and which are not, and the channels through which they must be made available, thus setting out the obligations on pharmaceutical companies and the member states. we therefore support this report and recognize its merits not only in the strictly health field but also in the social field.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the question of information on prescription medicines is a very sensitive one because it has a major impact on the protection of the right to health and well-being of every citizen. the european commission had submitted a proposal for a revision of the directive which risked opening a loophole in the legislation, a loophole which would have allowed pharmaceutical companies to exploit a vague distinction between the definitions of information and advertising to promote prescription medicines, all to the detriment of the public. there is still a lot to be done in terms of a proper strategy for information on medicines, but fortunately this time the european parliament has reacted as it should have. he stood up for the protection of citizens and for the right to better information for patients and did not give in to the pressure of the pharmaceutical companies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the evans report on the revision of the directive because i am very sorry that in the compromise text, which was adopted under strong pressure from the industrial lobbies, any reference to pvc and halogenated flame retardants has disappeared, despite all the studies carried out by the commission since 2000 showing that the disposal of these substances poses serious risks to human health and the environment. the idea of shifting the costs of industry onto the environment and the public is an approach which we cannot support because, in addition to altering the free market, it represents an unacceptable trade-off between the quality of life of people and the profits of companies. i hope that the next update of the directive, which will take place in three years' time, will put the right to the health of citizens and the protection of the environment at the forefront.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this resolution because it is the result of very difficult negotiations between the european commission and a number of other states, including canada, japan, the united states, australia and mexico. the fight against counterfeiting must be our priority, an objective of all policies at national and international level, and cooperation between member states is therefore essential to achieve effective results. the agreement reached will certainly not solve the complex situation on the international markets, but it is a step in the right direction. our task now is to continue to work for the civil and customs protection of all our geographical indications which are suffering the damage caused by unfair competition, to say the least, due to the constant use of names and abbreviations which recall the best known european trade marks. the most obvious damage is likely to be to our industries and to our producers in the agri-food, design, fashion and luxury goods sectors. i believe that the commission has undertaken to provide the european parliament with full information at all stages of the negotiations on international agreements. i would like to reiterate our request that the public and parliament be given access to the texts. in conclusion, i would ask the european commission to continue to keep parliament fully and timely informed of all future initiatives it intends to take in this regard.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i helped to approve draft amending budget no 8/2010 as it was essential to enable the appropriation of eur 13 022 500 to be mobilised from the solidarity fund for ireland, in connection with heavy rainfall which caused severe flooding in november 2009. i believe that the solidarity fund is a valuable instrument for the eu to show its solidarity with the people of regions affected by natural disasters by providing financial support to help restore as quickly as possible normal living conditions. the total annual budget available for the solidarity fund is eur 1 000 million. in 2010, no amount has yet been allocated for previous requests and, therefore, the full amount of eur 1 000 million remains available.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report. as i said yesterday when i voted in favour of mr böge's report, i believe that the european union has a duty to act in support of and in solidarity with certain regions affected by natural disasters and catastrophes. i believe that the concept of solidarity is linked to the idea and values on which the european union is based. this is one of the core values that gave birth to the union and made it prosper and expand over time, which is why this appropriation is not only justified and well founded but 'almost' due. i hope that similar measures will also be taken in the italian regions which have been hit hard by the recent floods which have brought the economy of those areas to its knees.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr surján for his excellent work. i voted in favour of and agreed to the adoption of draft amending budget no 8/2010, which provides for amounts of aid to the solidarity fund and the european union-member states solidarity fund and the reallocation of an amount of eur 13 022 500 in payment appropriations from sector 4 'employment and social affairs'.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr watson for his excellent work. i voted in favour, agreeing that moldova should proceed with the implementation of the enp action plan and the reforms outlined in the document 'rethinking moldova'. the holding of elections, as required by the constitution, is essential for the future stability and prosperity of moldova and for the development of its relations with the european union. all parties concerned should come together to find a solution and reflect the confidence of the moldovan people in a european solution. the european union and the council of europe have provided considerable assistance and should continue to do so in order to overcome this deadlock quickly.
in writing. − the adoption of the protocol on the general principles for the participation of the republic of moldova in european union programmes is of fundamental importance in order to continue on the path of more organic cooperation, which should reasonably be concluded in the future with an association agreement. the current constitutional impasse in moldova could undermine the overall implementation of the protocol and the related memoranda of understanding. after the failure of the referendum last september, it is of great importance that all political forces assume responsibility for the forthcoming elections on 28 november. political stability is a sine qua non for greater involvement in community programmes. a strong europeanist approach can also help to facilitate moldova's path of development, not only economically but also democratically. that is why, mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution of the european parliament today, hoping that all the processes initiated in moldova will be accompanied by technical and scientific support from europe.
in writing. - i congratulate the rapporteur and my colleague mr fjellner on the preparation of this report. i voted in favour of the report because i believe it is essential to ensure that patients have access to information on prescription medicines. the european parliament and patients' organisations have been calling for some time for the current legislation to be adapted, as it does not provide the necessary information. in fact, technical development and the easy availability of information on the use of medicinal products on the internet have all too often proved to be false and untrue. i agree with the spirit of this report which wants to put the 'right of the patient to information' at the heart of legislation and, as a result, recommends that pharmaceutical companies provide certain basic information to patients. i therefore hope for greater legal certainty, which is often lacking also because of the different ways in which the member states have applied the previous directive. it is therefore necessary to update the provisions on information on prescription medicinal products and to adopt new rules, promoting greater health literacy and involving the health industry more in its key role in improving public health.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of the new legislation on information on medicinal products is a further step towards ensuring that patients have clearer and more effective information on the medicines they take and are prescribed. a harmonised legislative framework at european level is needed which, in addition to maintaining the ban on advertising for prescription medicines, takes account of the 'right of the patient to information'. this is not a small matter, since the sometimes blurred line between "promotion of a product" and "information about a product" can confuse the patient. we must remember that throughout the european union the active role of patients in health care is steadily growing. therefore, better access to non-promotional information can help citizens better understand the treatments they are prescribed and facilitate their recovery, all of which is of course in the interest of their health. in conclusion, i would like to stress the importance of transparently defining the types of information on medicinal products and the channels through which it can be transmitted. the risk of uncontrolled publicity and, if and when necessary, the risk of an excess of uncontrolled and misleading information must be curbed.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive on the provision of information to the public on medicinal products for human use subject to prescription, because i believe that the harmonization of laws in this area is a fundamental instrument for protecting the awareness of european patients. and indeed, this is a very sensitive matter, as it concerns the protection of health, a fundamental human right. i fully share parliament's call for a clear distinction to be made between therapeutic information and advertising. the pharmaceutical companies should not use the right to information as a vehicle to conceal their promotional intentions, but should use it to ensure that european consumers are genuinely aware of their products, by means of scientific information on their characteristics, labelling and evaluation reports. it should also be noted that greater access to information, whether in electronic form, and therefore via the internet, or in paper form, can also contribute to better health outcomes, since the patient who is informed about prescription medicines is a person who is able to participate actively and with greater awareness in the therapeutic healing process.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the rapporteur's proposal because i consider the message and the indications given to be extremely important. european consumers are often confused by the labelling of medicinal products, finding them to be rather vague and containing information that often confuses them. the proposal for a directive on the provision of information to the public on medicinal products subject to prescription is aimed at providing simple information which is easy to understand and use, while avoiding any form of advertising. it is also important that information is not only available through the brochures, so that the internet is a good place to publish information.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr christofer fjellner for his excellent work. i voted in favour, agreeing that non-promotional information on medicinal products should be made available to patients and the public by marketing authorisation holders according to the 'pull' principle, whereby patients or the public have access to information if they need it (as opposed to the 'push' principle, whereby marketing authorisation holders disseminate information to patients and the public).
in writing. the vote in favour of this measure is a consequence of the formal distinction made between information on the medicinal product and advertising. the greater dissemination of information about medicines finds our sharing if it serves to provide greater awareness to patients. we do not and will never agree with any measure which, either explicitly or surreptitiously, intends to introduce forms of advertising, turning the ethical medicine into a commercial product. it is therefore appreciated that information on medicines will not be published in newspapers and magazines, let alone broadcast on radio and television. it is also good that the draft directive clarifies what and how much information can and should be disclosed, including scientific information and clearly excluding commercial information. the amendment which also introduces certification and control of the internet sites which will publish this information further assures us that it will not be advertising. the pharmacy is and must remain a basic health care facility and as such a protected environment with respect to the rules of competitive trade. we believe that this regulation helps the pharmacy system to fulfil its delicate role in pharmacovigilance and education on the correct use of medicines.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate mr fjellner on the important work he has done in communicating to the public information on medicinal products for human use subject to medical prescription and, more specifically, on community procedures for the authorization and supervision of medicinal products. the current community legal framework for scientific information to european consumers presents a number of problems, particularly with regard to the different interpretations of the legislation by individual member states. the report adopted today aims to improve the level of harmonisation of sectoral legislation in order to try to close the gaps and eliminate the disparities that exist today in the protection of the right to health, all as part of a wider action on health literacy, which aims at a practical and easy access to scientific information on prescription medicines by european citizens.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, by focusing on the 'right of the patient to information', i fully support the report, which contains important new elements. the first concerns the internet, on which parliament intends to raise awareness among consumers of the risks of buying medicines online and is pushing for the proposal of an ad hoc legislative act on this mode of sale. the second concerns the ban on advertising prescription medicines, because the distinction between generic and non-generic medicines is important, not only in terms of the information to be given to patients, but above all in respect of the respect of good manufacturing practices for the active ingredients, especially outside europe.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. parliament and patient organisations have long called for this proposal to be tabled, in order to enable patients to be better informed about the medicines they take and are prescribed. the existing legislation is not adapted to the technological development and the opportunities and challenges of the internet. patients in europe already have unlimited access to uncontrolled and often incorrect information on prescription medicines in seconds. the rapporteur proposed that the proposal be reoriented to oblige pharmaceutical companies to disclose certain information to patients, thus placing the 'right of the patient to information' at the heart of the legislation. increased access to quality information will contribute to better health outcomes for patients, as the better informed patient is more likely to pursue the necessary treatments and is able to better understand the decisions related to them. the proposal will therefore bring added value.
in writing. - i congratulate the rapporteur on her work and on the good compromise she has succeeded in reaching between our political groups. the text adopted, a revision of the directive currently in force, aims to set more ambitious parameters for the use of eee. it should be noted that in recent years the community institutions have made considerable progress in making the disposal and production of electronic equipment more environmentally friendly and more environmentally friendly. i voted in favour of this measure, which is part of this context and which certainly represents a burden but also an opportunity for companies and smes. the ability to offer cleaner products to consumers is a good opportunity for companies to improve both their business processes and their global competitiveness. finally, the new parameters set out in this report will ensure greater protection for european consumers and greater respect for the environment.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union needed detailed legislation on the use of certain substances considered harmful in electrical and electronic equipment. this need is made clear by data reported by the commission, which shows that 9.3 million tonnes of electrical and electronic equipment (eee) are currently sold in the eu alone per year. the continuing expansion of the market and the shortening of the innovation cycles leading to frequent replacement of equipment are increasing the waste stream from the equipment. after a short transitional period for companies to adapt to the new legislation, the use of hazardous substances will be prohibited in all electrical and electronic equipment, with a few exceptions, for example, photovoltaic panels. the measure will also require non-european competing industries to comply with the same obligations as those imposed on our companies, with the express stipulation that imported products must meet the same safety standards as those guaranteed by community rules. i therefore believe that the need to protect certain primary goods, such as public health and the environment, is ultimately a priority, even if we are aware that we are acting in a context strongly characterized by the serious economic crisis that has struck europe and the world.
in writing. - i have expressed my support for the report for a number of reasons. i agree with the exclusion of fixed installations and photovoltaic panels from the scope of the directive. another element of satisfaction is the adoption of a methodology for the review of dangerous substances in annex iv, which makes it possible to cross off the list of substances to be submitted to the commission (annex iii). i think that the definition of dependence on electricity for the operation of equipment is correct, although not too broad. i also think it is premature to include in legislation the evaluation of nanomaterials, which is the subject of a study by the commission. finally, i welcome the fact that the scope is 'open' to include all electrical and electronic equipment.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank my colleague, mrs jill evans, for her excellent work. i voted in favour, agreeing with the need for the revision of the rohs directive to be set in the context of the eu's international obligations to reduce total emissions of dioxins and furans, with the aim of further reducing them and, where feasible, eliminating them permanently. the final fate of waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) remains unclear. high-temperature incineration is the exception. there remains a risk that significant quantities of weee will continue to be disposed of in a non-compliant manner in the eu or in third countries. the problem of dioxin and furane emissions can only be addressed by making concrete choices at the design stage.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the revision of the directive on the use of dangerous substances in electrical and electronic equipment in the plenary today. the text, a legal revision of the 2003 directive, seeks to introduce, also in the light of new scientific knowledge on the subject, restrictions on the use of materials such as cadmium, chlorine, mercury and polyvinyl chloride (pvc) which have been shown to be harmful to human health. while i am aware of the strong opposition of the manufacturing industries in the sector, particularly those opposed to restrictions on the use of pvc, i believe that it is the primary duty of politics, and therefore of democratically elected parliamentarians, to try to curb the use of substances which, even if only potentially, can cause harm to human health, and at the same time it is necessary to encourage, within the limits of available technology, the use of alternative and substitute substances. i think that the question of the final fate of waste electrical and electronic equipment is particularly important, especially where it contains materials which have subsequently been recognised as dangerous. in these cases, disposal procedures must be even more rigorous and careful.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta) has made and makes more effective the rules which promote the european union's exports and protect those who, when operating on the global market, are increasingly subject to widespread infringements of their intellectual property rights. as the joint motion for a resolution has rightly stressed, the fight against counterfeiting at global level is a key element in the political strategy of the european union, in order to ensure a level playing field for all european producers. i believe that in this field, as in others, the essential nature of cooperation between states has been peacefully established. the protection of copyright, trademarks, patents, designs and geographical indications is certainly a sensitive matter, as it relates to respect for fundamental human rights, but today's case is a serious call to continue in the right direction. the commission will have to work to ensure that effective enforcement practices are included for geographical indications, the protection of which is of fundamental importance for businesses and for the employment of european citizens.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the european people's party resolution on acta, as i believe it is essential that the agreement be put into effect. we must act quickly, we must not delay any longer and waste time, otherwise we risk a stalemate in the negotiations to the detriment of european producers and consumers. europe must continue to concentrate its efforts on two issues. the first is the compulsory civil and customs protection of european geographical indications, which are now being harmed not only by the agri-food industry, whose counterfeit products are subject to unfair competition through the use of names that copy and recall well-known european brands, but also by industries in areas such as design and fashion. the second issue is the need for common rules to control online sales, an area in which there is an increase in the sale of counterfeit books, films, music and millions of counterfeit goods, to the detriment not only of the consumer but also of the european producer.
in writing. - today i approved the recently finalised international agreement against counterfeiting and piracy (acta). the aim of the new multilateral acta agreement between the eu, the usa, australia, canada, japan, mexico, morocco, new zealand, singapore, south korea and switzerland is to strengthen the protection of intellectual property and help fight against counterfeiting and piracy of products such as high-end clothing, music and films. i am aware that the negotiated agreement will not solve the complex and multi-dimensional problem of counterfeiting, but i believe that it is a step in the right direction. however, i would ask the european commission to confirm that the text has no impact on fundamental freedoms and community legislation. i would also remind you that parliament has a veto on international agreements.
the agenda includes the report by lena kolarska-bobińska, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on 'towards a new energy strategy for europe 2011-2020' (2010/2108(ini) (a7-0313/2010).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, ensuring sustainable, secure and accessible energy is certainly one of the major challenges facing europe in the years ahead. the programme objectives of europe set out a series of actions which cannot be ignored. the full realisation of the internal energy market is an objective which can only be achieved if the existing legislation on the energy package is applied by all member states. i believe that if the objectives of the strategy are to be fully achieved, investment in modern and intelligent infrastructure and, above all, in the research and use of renewable energy sources must be made. investments themselves, in addition to being the most cost-effective solution to reduce the eu's energy dependence, will help to combat climate change.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my appreciation for this resolution, which is a good piece of work for four reasons. first, it reiterates that energy efficiency and saving are an economically beneficial priority for reducing europe's energy dependence and combating climate change. secondly, it puts the emphasis on smart infrastructure. thirdly, it calls for the full implementation of existing european legislation. fourthly, it aims to achieve an energy policy with a strong and coherent international dimension. finally, i would like to stress the importance of energy security and of investing in research, development and innovation to best protect the interests of consumers, businesses and citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have read the report carefully and i regard it as a positive whole. i was rather puzzled, however, by a number of references to the future of coal in the european strategy, in particular paragraph 52 which calls on the commission to draw up legislative provisions to facilitate the construction of coal-fired power stations. in the united states, a political and citizens' movement has been under way for some years now, which has in fact led to a kind of moratorium on the construction of coal-fired power stations. the decision is based on the fact that, in addition to co2 emissions, there is the problem of the management of ash containing many toxic substances. so i do not support the coal-fired power stations at all and i remember that the so-called 'clean coal' is in many cases more a slogan than a reality. i have also heard some colleagues defend the nuclear agreement to the hilt, both in terms of cost and safety. unfortunately, those who say that show that they do not know what they are talking about. the alternatives exist, they are renewable, they are real, and the european union must plan its course for the next decade in that direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report is of considerable interest because, starting from the basic idea that europe must have a common energy policy, it analyses methods and timing in a precise way. in my personal speech at the energy forum, organised by president buzek among the representatives of the 27 eu countries and our parliament, i gave my support to a common energy plan which would allow equal access to energy for private individuals and businesses, thus eliminating the differences in costs, even if they are considerable, which exist today. it is regrettable that the now inevitable calls for the european union to take responsibility for combating climate change have been inserted in a good report. there are specific documents on this subject and i think it is pleonastic that references to this subject should continue to be inserted to satisfy certain green extremists. for our part, a second commitment period under the kyoto protocol can only take place in a comprehensive global framework involving all the major economies and with a legally binding agreement.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, although i have announced in advance both in committee and in the house that the copenhagen climate conference and the document presented by this parliament will fail, experience has taught us nothing. if we insist on unilaterally asking europe to reduce its emissions to levels far above those required under kyoto, the next summit in cancún - cop16 - will also be a failure and our parliament will once again make a bad impression. the resolution adopted by the committee not only reiterates that the contribution to developing countries should not be less than eur 30 billion a year by 2020, but also encourages the union to promote the creation of a green climate fund, allocating usd 100 billion a year from 2020 onwards. the document also says how to raise the funds, that is by taxing all possible sources, for example by imposing taxes on financial transactions, on trade and on air tickets, in effect taking this money directly out of the pockets of citizens and businesses. the report then launches into utopian demands. it even calls for a reduction in co2 emissions to the atmosphere by 2020 of 30% instead of 20%, and calls on the commission to come forward with a proposal for the eu to unilaterally set these targets. to ask our people and our businesses to make such sacrifices at a time of economic crisis like the one we are experiencing is yet another euro-craziness. we share the council's view that the european union can only consider a second commitment period under the kyoto protocol if this is done in a comprehensive framework involving all the major economies and with a view to a legally binding global agreement.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, madam president-in-office, the european will to set ambitious targets for the next climate change conference is certainly a commitment to be pursued with tenacity and with the awareness that the results will determine the future of our planet. but that is precisely why, ladies and gentlemen, we must be realistic and more cautious in our expectations. as far as we know, the international negotiations leading up to the cancún conference have not only failed to make appreciable progress towards a comprehensive agreement, but have also confirmed the doubts and resistance to the commitments made in copenhagen. it has been mentioned before, but i would like to mention china here as well. china, for example, is committing to an increase in its emissions of 5 billion tons of co2 by 2020, with consequences that could be offset, and perhaps not even offset, by a 100% reduction in european industrial emissions by the same year, by 2020. this not only makes the proposal for an unconditional 30% reduction, which we strongly oppose, a welcome one, but it also leads many independent observers to assume that global emissions will still increase, even significantly, by that date. in this contradictory situation it would be risky and even demagogic to speculate on numbers and to draw up scenarios which are suggestive but not realistic, where the unknowns are inevitably reflected in the size of the costs. the hope is that the european union will bring a shared, realistic and sustainable proposal to cancún, because an agreement that gives concrete and tangible results is always preferable to expectations that are inevitably destined to fail and to make the efforts of governments on major environmental issues less and less credible in the eyes of international public opinion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i very much appreciate the presence and attitude of the commissioner. i thank you for your commitment to keep parliament informed of developments in cancún. the fight against climate change must be conducted globally and with the efforts of all, but the attitude that our position must depend on that of other countries is irresponsible and does not do justice to the role that the eu has set itself to play, a primary role in leading the cultural revolutions worldwide, first and foremost the fight against climate change. we must set ourselves ever more ambitious targets and ensure that they are achieved by the various member states. i therefore thank the commissioner for calling on italy a few days ago to honour its financial pledges, namely eur 200 million to combat climate change. unfortunately, i have to inform the commission that the italian government's budget does not seem to provide for these funds at the moment. i therefore ask the commission to insist tenaciously on using all the powers at its disposal to enforce its promises on the member states, especially when it is a battle of such importance for the immediate future of the world's population ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
member of the commission. − mr president, i thought i could limit myself to three basic comments after this lively debate, but i find i should firstly respond to a very direct question from mr pargneaux: i think that we can make good progress on the architecture for a green fund. however, for many parties, some of the very specific sources of finance will probably need a bit more looking into – as it is only two weeks since the high-level panel from the un came forward with these various inputs. realistically, we should make substantial progress. we should know what we want to do with this fund and how to set it up. then i am sure, soon thereafter, that we can also deliver on the requirements of the fund. i think we will have to progress gradually, but we are very much in favour of progressing on the green fund. now my three comments. firstly, marita ulvskog said early in this debate that the climate issue has slid down the international agenda this year. that is of course true, but it is also true that if we compare our current position to two ago – or to five or ten years ago – we can see that climate is very much up on the agenda today. were it not for the run-up to the copenhagen accord, can you imagine that the issues on climate change, energy efficiency and how to promote green growth would have survived the economic crisis? i would argue probably not. it is something that this is still very much on our agenda in the eu, and it must also stay there. mr ouzký mentioned that europe is always ‘too optimistic’; well maybe it is not always in vain. it is not the pessimists who achieve big things. by setting targets, europe showed the way in 2008; and in the run-up to copenhagen, a lot of economies followed. two years ago we were more or less alone in setting targets. in the run-up to copenhagen, big economies such as indonesia, mexico, korea, india, south africa and others – the list is much longer – set domestic targets. all other things being equal, this is also very important when seen from a european business perspective. that was something we actually gained. now in a lot of countries, these domestic targets will lead to some kind of paradigm shift. yes, it is too slow in many ways, but actually we have come quite a long way. somebody referred to the emerging economies. this was not an issue for emerging economies before; two years ago the emerging economies would have said that climate change was not for them to deal with. the rich countries would have to deal with it – the developed countries. today, because of copenhagen they acknowledge that they have a co-responsibility. we must try to build on that in cancún, and we will. there were some questions on the cdm. yes, it is a problem. we are facing some challenges in that respect, and that is part of our ‘to do’ list for cancún: to try to take some steps forward in the reforms that are necessary in the cdm system. i would like to say to mr skylakakis that i am happy to announce that tomorrow the commission will come forward with our proposal on certain use restrictions on industrial gases. there has been a very fine cooperation with and involvement from parliament, which is needed in order to reach a successful conclusion with the member states. we will present our proposal tomorrow and i think that it will accommodate many of the concerns that this parliament has raised. my final comment is to mr leinen and mr arsenis, who both said that they were afraid that cancún is being downplayed too much. i think that to say that we want an ambitious, substantial and balanced outcome – with all the elements that i mentioned and that the belgian presidency has mentioned – is not downplaying things too much. if we really get a decision on forestry, on adaptation, on technology, on the delivery of fast-start finance, on how to measure, report and verify carbon markets, and on the different elements that we have mentioned here, then i think it is substantial progress. we all know why we cannot get one of the things we would like: the internationally binding deal. one of the reasons is the lack of progress in the american senate. we all know that that is the reason why. however, i think that if we keep the momentum we are still likely to achieve the european target as soon as possible, namely to have the internationally binding deal. we will all do our utmost to achieve that kind of progress in cancún. the alternative is very bad; it is very grim. we must ensure this, and i can assure you that, together, the european delegation will do whatever we can to achieve this, and we will do so in such a way that the world can hear that we are speaking with a now famous ‘one voice’. i hope it will be the famous ‘one voice’ where we are all saying the same thing, where we are coming up with the same priorities, whether we are ministers, from the commission, experts, or members of the european parliament. i am also looking forward to working with your delegation when we come to cancún.
acting president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i naturally agree with the commissioner's remarks and i would also like to thank all members for the many comments made, including the concerns and worries expressed. we have taken note of that and will take this with us. i would also like to thank the commission and its services for the good cooperation they have shown so far. i think we must continue along this path and that this will also be crucial and very important in the coming days and weeks, in cancún and at the climate conference itself. the commissioner has answered a number of questions, but i would like to mention a few of them myself. i have heard a lot of comments about credibility, about 'speaking with one voice' and of course we have to do this. i know from experience of the nagoya cop that we can do this as the european union. that this is also the only right way to achieve a good result. we must take the experience of nagoya, but also the bad experience of copenhagen last year, and draw our lessons from it. we did that as a council. we have indeed made our position clear. we have our council conclusions, and on the basis of the council conclusions, ladies and gentlemen, we can convey the clear message of the european union, also at international level. it goes without saying, mr eickhout, that if the european union has to go back on the council conclusions, it will be within the eu coordination, as has always been the case, and that the message will be further agreed in a clear way there too. i have also heard some comments on the move to -30%. you know that the council has also agreed to the presidency report, which is based on the commission's communication on an analysis of the impact of the move to -30%. in that report - and the council accepted it - we asked the commission to carry out further research into the impact at member state level. on this point, it was also promised that the spring council would discuss the move to -20% in the spring on the basis of the commission's further study. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the nagoya conference. it's not a matter of adjusting ambitions. we must be realistic, but we must also do everything we can to ensure that cancún also achieves a good result, a balanced package of measures. we, as the belgian presidency, will do everything we can to achieve that result. we will do this together with all the member states, with the european commission and with your support; in this way we must ensure that we can build on the confidence that was restored in nagoya, because the multilateral level has managed to reach an agreement again, and continue this in cancún, and also create hope for the climate.
i have received a motion for a resolution. in accordance with article 110 (2) of the regulation. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 25 november 2010. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the council and commission statements on the future of the eu-africa strategic partnership on the eve of the third eu-africa summit.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the third summit between the european union and africa is a key opportunity to strengthen relations between the two sides. the event, which will focus on economic growth, sustainable development and political governance, will cover a number of issues, including the review of agriculture and food security in the context of the millennium development goals. in order to ensure access to food for all, to combat rural poverty and to improve the quality of agricultural production, the participation of producer organisations and trade associations is necessary to enable them to be engaged and aware and to improve the distribution and management of natural resources. the european union must commit itself to exploiting these opportunities to intensify dialogue and cooperation in support of africa's regional integration. in particular, we must combat the imbalances and corruption in cooperation initiatives. the responsibilities of governments must not override those of civil society and the participation of all actors involved in sustainable economic and social growth strategies must be ensured.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we should first of all recall that africa is the tenth largest power in the world, although in the year in which we are commemorating an important event concerning poverty, certainly poverty which affects africa as it affects many other continents. we must strengthen the association agreements, we must work towards economic sustainability, which is mainly based on infrastructure, education, health, water resources, with real controls on the adequacy of the financial means allocated to african countries and remembering that africa is very different from one region to another. there are regions with special needs which, for example, generate often clandestine migratory flows. it is necessary to link migration flows to the actual reasons for the labour market. a constructive dialogue can certainly protect fundamental rights and support governance on this important continent.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would say at once to mr salafranca that, while we were waiting for the conflict between plato and truth to be settled, we might have needed a little more time before producing this resolution, and that for at least two reasons. firstly, to gather all the information needed to ensure a more solid parliamentary position. secondly, because a series of hearings and comparisons in the relevant committees had been set up. parliament has rightly decided to act immediately. however, this does not diminish the need for these hearings and the need to keep open the dialogue with morocco. that is why i believe that after the vote it is useful to invest our efforts in three specific directions: to bring europe into a new role, through its diplomacy and its neighbourhood policies; contribute to a successful outcome of the negotiations opened by the un; finally, we must use all the parliamentary instruments, starting with the afet committee and the joint committee, to ensure that the debate goes on and helps to find solutions. i think it is worthwhile to work with determination towards these specific objectives.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with friends we speak clearly and we tell things as they are. that is why we say to morocco that it must do much more to solve the western sahara case. the european union cannot and should not continue to pretend that it is doing nothing, because we risk making a grave mistake. we risk making those who have chosen, as the saharawi people have done through the polisario front, the path of peace, realize that they have chosen the wrong path. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. madam president, that is not fair, because the saharawis are a brave but gentle people, they live their religion in their own way and their women have important roles in society. the sahrawis are fighting for their land, so they have a love for it as boundless as their desert, they are fighting for their identity, and it is not right that they should be left alone. the vote we have strongly wanted to have tomorrow in this plenary session is an important signal from the european union that it is taking back control of the fate of this land area.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have only one regret in this house tonight, namely that we are discussing the saharawis only because the moroccans have invaded the tent cities outside el ayun, and that is a regret for democracy in this parliament. parliament should have been able to develop its own will to discuss this question which has been on the international agenda for thirty years. this is the most important political fact. we were forced to do so by acts of violence and not because we had decided to guarantee human rights on our own. what is it, if not respect for human rights, that there should be a referendum on self-determination? it is precisely because morocco is our friend, because morocco is the strength of our relations, that we must demand forcefully and with all the necessary means that there be a will that can no longer be postponed. we must try to create the conditions so that the minurso mission is not alone in creating the conditions for a referendum which is constantly postponed. we must try to use all the means at the disposal of the european union to influence this event and to ensure that this referendum does justice to 30 years of suffering by a people.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, an act as serious as that which has occurred in recent weeks against the saharawi people cannot but be sanctioned and it is therefore right and proper for the european parliament to intervene. on the other hand, there is no doubt - as my colleague salafranca rightly said - that the moroccan people have made a number of important contributions to africa over time, which make it possible to regard that people not only as a friend but as particularly close to the positions of the european union. the sanctions, which are necessary and absolutely essential, must of course be accompanied by a renewed process of negotiations, which the joint committee has already started, which will really allow the protection of fundamental rights - which have been violated in such a way that they cannot be violated again - while waiting for the un to clarify the situation, which we are talking about today, by calling it an inquiry, to clarify the violation of fundamental rights which must really be sanctioned.
member of the commission. − mr president, after very closely following the debate, i would like to stick to my initial statement. i believe that it is very balanced and very correct. i would just repeat the last sentence. the united nations secretary-general has the support of the eu in achieving a just, lasting and mutually-acceptable political solution which will provide for the self-determination of the people of western sahara, in agreement with the security council resolutions. i would definitely encourage both sides to support the efforts of the united nations.
in writing. the latest bloody events, linked to the dispute between morocco and the polisario front over western sahara, require greater attention because of the negative effects they could have on the stability of the region. the evacuation of the el aayoun camp would have resulted in a dozen deaths, over 700 wounded, 150 missing and 160 arrests by the moroccan authorities, and would have led to the killing of spanish citizen of saharawi origin baby hamday buyema. we must not only abandon the saharawi people, but we must also bring to an end the negotiations conducted under the auspices of the united nations, in accordance with the principles of the universal declaration of human rights, in particular article 2. the european union must intervene and call on the moroccan government to prevent further bloodshed and to release the sahrawi people who are being illegally detained. the resumption of informal talks between the parties on 7 and 8 november must be a first signal that a fair solution can be peacefully accepted by the parties.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, there are not many of us here tonight to talk about anti-dumping, which is also a subject of great interest in our countries. i believe that there is no other issue in international trade matters which is more at the heart of businessmen, large and small companies, trade unions and consumers than dumping. the confrontation with dumping is in fact a kind of daily bread for so much of our productive reality. the commission is doing its duty and is certainly doing its duty with regard to anti-dumping measures, but we are asking for action which is guided by the following principles. firstly, the transparency of the action, full transparency of the procedures, the evaluation criteria adopted and the results, and then the communication and a communication strategy, because the anti-dumping actions of the european union commission represent an element of reassurance for our entrepreneurs and our workers. secondly, there is a margin of discretion in anti-dumping proceedings. this is common sense, but sometimes i get the impression that there is too much discretion in the decisions that are taken. thirdly, the european parliament must be more closely associated, involved and informed in the post-lisbon phase. i think there is a certain amount of difficulty on the part of the commission in fully recognising this role of parliament in international trade - although a lot of effort has been made and we are grateful to the commissioner for that - and certainly parliament needs to have more say on anti-dumping too. finally, there is the question of dialogue with society. the commission may have a lot more to do in this area too. parliament cannot simply listen to the players in society, including on anti-dumping issues. here too the commission must probably take account of the new requirements in relation to the exclusive powers it has under lisbon in international trade. finally, it is clear that we must regard anti-dumping as part of a coherent trade strategy and an integrated policy based on the principles of fairness and openness. this will enable europe to move forward with its head held high.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am happy that the european parliament shares our view that the defence of eu production against international trade distortions should be considered as a necessary component of an open and fair trade strategy. i share your view that trade defence instrument (tdi) decisions must continue to be founded on technical and factual elements, and i am confident we have one of the most effective and fairest trade defence systems in the world. i am aware that, in anti-dumping and anti-subsidy investigations, there are many interests at stake and that some stakeholders attempt to influence the decision. nevertheless, i can confirm that the decision-making process is effective, transparent and based on factual evidence and thorough analysis. i acknowledge that third parties have recently tried to influence our decision making by pressuring industries or, indeed, member states and companies operating in these third countries. i strongly condemn such actions. in this context, the entry into force of the lisbon treaty provides an opportunity to address this problem. i would like to assure you that the number of tdi cases remains stable over the medium and long term: so, in response to mr sturdy, no, it is not going up. we have managed to avoid any significant increase which could have happened as a result of the world recession, and have ensured that the anti-dumping instrument would not be used for protectionist purposes. most statistics show that the number of cases in the eu remains lower than in our main trading partners. china remains, by and large, the main source of unfair trade (around 35% of cases launched by the eu are against china). i am determined to take action where necessary, and this includes anti-subsidy action. mr sturdy also put a question with respect to a recent case, the so-called ‘modem case’, where the commission had, in fact, looked at three aspects: the dumping, the subsidisation and also the safeguards. the dumping and the subsidisation were investigated on the basis of complaints by the company concerned and, according to the basic regulations, complainants can withdraw their complaints. eu law stipulates that, where a case is withdrawn, the proceedings can be terminated unless such termination would not be in the community interests. we are currently examining the implications of the withdrawals. it should be pointed out that the commission has accepted such withdrawals in the past and has consequently terminated investigations without taking measures. on the third case, concerning the safeguards, this is, in fact, a complaint initiated by the government concerned in the case – the belgian government – so that is a somewhat different procedure. the company concerned (option nv) has now informed the commission that it has asked the belgian government to withdraw the request for the imposition of safeguard measures, but the belgian government has not yet informed the commission whether it will comply with option’s request, so we are waiting for the belgian government to take a decision on its position. that is precisely what has happened in this case. now, continuing on the broader issues, trade defence instruments are there for good reasons. in the absence of international competition rules and other rules associated with properly functioning markets, trade defence instruments are the only possible means of protecting our industry against unfairly traded goods. we seek to use these rules in the most efficient way for our industries. the existence of time limits ensures quick action for the industry and predictability for exporters. i intend to keep our instruments effective and fair, for the benefit of all the economic operators concerned. the international rules on trade defence are being renegotiated in the world trade organisation (wto). the eu position there is clear: we want to maintain the effectiveness of our instruments while protecting our business against protectionist actions by others. these wto negotiations, as well as changes brought about by the lisbon treaty, are important in relation to any review of our rules that we would wish to undertake. as regards smes, trade defence instruments indeed represent a challenge for smes, in terms of both costs and complexity. there is a need to reduce the administrative burden for smes in trade defence investigations. this is why i have commissioned a study to look at the specific difficulties that smes face when dealing with tdis, and at possible solutions to alleviate these difficulties. regarding the institutional aspects, you will have noted that the comitology proposal submitted by the commission in march provides for parliament to be fully informed as to the committee proceedings. the commission will also provide information on the proposed measures on which the committees are asked to deliver an opinion, the final measures and the final adoption by the commission. at any time, parliament can obtain further information on request. in this context, let me confirm that the commission is effectively ready to make a proposal on the alignment of the trade defence instruments with the new system of control of delegated and implementing acts (this is the so-called ‘trade omnibus’). however, as you are aware, there is significant discussion between the institutions on the overall issue of implementing acts. the commission is carefully following the discussion and gauging, on the basis of contacts with the other institutions, when such a proposal should be adopted by the commission. however, let me be clear that the only issue is that of when the proposal will be made, not whether it will be made. there was also the specific question by mr moreira on the comitology. there, i would like to be very clear. i see no argument whatsoever in the lisbon treaty for having special treatment for comitology when it concerns trade, and we will not agree to that. of course, the decision is in the hands of parliament and the council, although the commission could also have a role to play, as, ultimately, could the european court of justice. introducing a different majority – because that is what it really comes down to – for overruling the commission on questions of trade is not acceptable to us, and it is certainly not acceptable to me. finally, regarding the use of trade defence instruments by third countries, we have indeed observed an increase since the beginning of the economic crisis. i would like to assure you that we follow trade defence actions by third countries closely, and we take action when necessary – including intense monitoring, effective support for eu exporters affected and, indeed, the initiation of dispute-settlement procedures at the wto. in many cases the commission’s actions lead to the termination of the investigation without the imposition of measures. in other cases, these interventions often result in lesser measures being imposed on the eu exporters concerned. there was also a question about possible forms of retaliation towards third countries in respect of pressures exerted on european companies. we have received petitions on this matter from european companies but we do not disclose their names, in order to protect them. for example, in a recent case involving china, china attacked the dispute settlement in the wto and the panel supported us, but we have not made public the names of the companies concerned, and i think this was also to protect the companies. two final questions were on whether we are going to review the trade defence instruments. we are not, because i truly believe it is not necessary. there is an enormous amount of work to be done on trade in the coming years, and i must say that i do not want to reopen certain discussions through such a review process. i would consider doing so only once the doha round is over. there was also a specific question by the green member. mr schlyter, your question is an interesting one, i must say, because, as you most probably know, these anti-dumping cases are introduced by companies. they are taken on the basis of a complaint by a company. so if a company were to raise the issue that you put forward concerning carbon leakage, then the commission would, of course, investigate and see whether the case ought to result in measures being imposed. but the issue is certainly not beyond the scope of the arguments that we consider. we consider the arguments that are put forward by the companies concerned, so if a company were to put this before us then we would certainly look into the matter.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, anti-dumping, which is one of the most effective instruments for defending the fairness of trade in the union in order to compete fairly on the market, needs clear rules that can be applied within the new comitology. the treaty of lisbon clearly states that the commission is responsible for implementing acts. the council, together with parliament, has the power to scrutinise the commission's work. the compromise under discussion today actually deprives parliament of the role that lisbon has assigned to it and could thus create a new democratic deficit within the institutions. in particular, we do not understand and reject the proposal to reserve a differentiated treatment for anti-dumping measures, a treatment which introduces elements of discretion, politicization and legal uncertainty into proceedings whose purpose should instead be to protect the legitimate interests of companies harmed by unfair competition practices. at a time of severe economic crisis such as the one we are experiencing, it seems to us unreasonable and self-destructive to make the conclusion of anti-dumping proceedings in fact complicated and perhaps impracticable. this is what the present proposal would be if it were not amended. we appeal to the sense of responsibility of the member states, as well as of the commission, member states whose common interest must be to ensure greater development. development is possible only if there are rules which prevent market distortion, respect institutional roles and make procedures fast.
the number of anti-dumping procedures applied by the european commission has increased in recent years. this is the signal of the increase in unfair practices by other countries towards european companies. despite the economic and financial crisis, 332 protectionist measures have been adopted by international partners in the last two years. we believe in free but fair international trade, based on the sharing of equal rules for all. it is important to safeguard the effectiveness of european trade defence instruments which act to correct situations of illegality. i am deeply concerned about the effect that the current attempts to reform comitology will have on the effectiveness of these instruments. leaving room for political and diplomatic negotiations to decide on the application of anti-dumping measures risks distorting a process which must instead remain based on concrete and objective data.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is natural to feel that a meeting such as this with the european ombudsman and the commissioner has a particularly significant role to play in a reality, such as the european one, which is developing dynamically and concretely in the interests of the citizen. the instruments recently introduced by the treaty of lisbon offer the citizens the legislative initiative which today allows them to say how much the european parliament really wants to be closer to the needs and expectations of the european citizen. it is true that the effective application of the law depends mainly on how well the commission, with the authoritative support of the european ombudsman, can do. we must listen to the citizens' demands and expectations and demand that the instruments actually applied are in the interests of the citizens. the need for a code of procedure is a welcome initiative. the information must be provided in accordance with criteria of accessibility, consistency and absolute transparency of information, because we believe that many regions expect the european commission to give them greater impetus than has been shown so far. we must not forget how important the contribution of other european mediators can be in the area of interparliamentary cooperation activities. if it is true, as it is true, that national parliaments and the european parliament must cooperate effectively in the interests of the citizen, there is no doubt that this personal enrichment of history, professional and legal cultures must find a moment of mediation in this cooperation as an effective method of solving problems in the interests of the citizen.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i am very much obliged to the honourable members for having this debate because it helps us prepare the ground for these very important changes in the legal framework in which our companies will operate in the future. i very much agree with all those who have been calling for fair competition because only fair competition can lead to fair practice and, of course, to real and not fixed prices. this is very important for europe’s citizens: how to create a conducive environment so we can achieve positive results but prevent the possibility, on the market, of fixed prices. i can assure you that we are looking at all possible ways of achieving a solution under which the prices for the patents would not be too high. you know very well from the debate on this issue how very difficult that is. i can tell you that we in the commission are very unhappy with the delay – we have not been able to find an appropriate solution for the patent for such a long time – because it would definitely create the conditions for a leap forward on how to protect intellectual property rights and on how to improve and make europe much more competitive when it comes to patent protection on an international level. legal certainty and a new legal framework have been two very important issues on which we have been focusing in preparing our proposals. we have had quite extensive public consultations on this matter. we had 190 submissions and there were stakeholders from industry, law firms, academies and governments, so we think that when it comes to the final outcome we will have managed to achieve the appropriate balance. i am very thankful for the underlining of the importance of eu 2020, because this is exactly why we need to improve and change the framework in which companies operate, looking into how to create positive, conducive environments so that research and development companies and companies involved in innovation can flourish, and into how these could bring additional added value to european economies, and into how to create the conditions for their staying in europe and not looking for opportunities to manufacture the products somewhere else. i can assure you this was one of the elements on which the commission, and my colleagues commissioners almunia and barnier in particular, put particular attention in terms of the single market act. because with a single market we now have new opportunities to unlock new potentials, to open new avenues and to create conditions which will be important for really good progress, especially in r&d sectors. turning to the concrete questions by mr schwab, who pointed out certain differences in the commission approach to this particular issue of small chain suppliers against large chain companies, we came to the conclusion after a very serious review process and our very extensive consultations with the stakeholders, with the member states, that the approach we are advocating right now corresponded more closely to the current situation, to the present data we had received, and this was the reason why we are suggesting this line forward.
i hereby inform you that the written declaration no 0068/2010, submitted by mr pavel poc, frieda brepoels, cristian silviu buşoi, jo leinen and alojz peterle, on the fight against colorectal cancer in the european union, has received more signatures than the majority of members of parliament. therefore, pursuant to rule 123 of the rules of procedure, it will be forwarded to the addressees and published, with the names of the signatories, in the texts adopted at this sitting.
i would like to inform you that the written declaration no 0075/2010 submitted by mr alejo vidal-quadras, mr stephen hughes, ms kristiina ojuland, mr søren bo søndergaard and mr struan stevenson on camp ashraf has received more signatures than the majority of members of parliament. therefore, pursuant to rule 123 of the rules of procedure, it will be forwarded to the addressees and published, with the names of the signatories, in the texts adopted at this sitting.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for details of the vote: see minutes)
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mrs saïfi's report because it sets out and achieves the objectives of defining a strengthening of the defence of human rights and of social and environmental standards in international trade agreements. this will enable the major international organizations to cooperate more closely so that social aspects are included in multilateral agreements. it would be useful to reform the world trade organisation in such a way as to make room for such cooperation, even if the ostracism of some countries makes such a reform difficult to implement. the human rights clause is already included in the most recent international agreements and will be a cornerstone of future trade agreements. there is therefore a need to ensure the effective implementation of the gsp conventions of the 27 countries and the accompanying measures to strengthen enforcement capacity. finally, the generalized preferences should indeed be concentrated on the countries most in need when the system is reformed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the belet report because it highlights and clarifies the fundamental role of the public sector in the broadcasting of european countries. i think this is an important step for the european parliament, which is clearly expressing itself on the necessary independence of the civil service from political power. this report seems to be tailor-made for italy, where rai is now in an advanced state of decomposition due to the complete occupation of the parties, to the detriment of the cultural and informative depth of public radio and television and therefore of the entire country. just look at what happened last week on "come away with me". the minzolini, the masi, the public misinformation professionals and their masters are incompatible with what the european parliament has approved today. the european union should take note of this and act accordingly. out with the rai!
in writing. − the failure of the parliament and the council to reach agreement on the 2011 budget by the end of the year could have serious consequences for the financing of community programmes, lead to serious delays in the establishment of the monitoring bodies and affect the operation of emergency instruments such as the globalisation adjustment fund and the solidarity fund. the future negotiations must, however, see this parliament acting firmly. what has been asked of the council is simply to respect the prerogatives of the lisbon treaty. parliament has done nothing but defend the eu budget from reckless cuts that would affect employment and see our citizens pay the price of a blocking stance by some member states. i hope that the next negotiations will be conducted with a high degree of responsibility, so that we do not add to the economic crisis an institutional crisis.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted, as did the vast majority of you, in favour of the draft budget, because i believe that parliament cannot be disregarded. this is not only symbolic, since parliament represents 500 million european citizens, but also constitutional, since the treaty requires the consent of the european parliament itself for the adoption of the future multiannual financial framework (mff). the increase which parliament is calling for is not a whim but is for the benefit of the citizens of the european union. this is evidenced by the strong benefits of the funds and the initiatives implemented at community level. i certainly agree with those who think it is important to think of a different distribution, perhaps to avoid that there have been merely net contributors and that they get much less benefit. i hope that in the process of consultation and conciliation all these requirements will be taken into account.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the question of human rights and the application of social and environmental standards in trade negotiations is a complex and extremely difficult problem. it is therefore essential that the social clause should appear more and more frequently in bilateral agreements. although the current imbalance between the rules of international trade and the other rules of international law is obvious, i think it is of fundamental importance to vote in favour of mrs saïfi's report, so that new lines of thinking can be cultivated for real coordination between international organizations. given the eu's leading role in the search for a new global governance, i believe that we should promote policy coherence in the international institutions. i voted in favour of the report because it is a good way to start and pursue a new trade policy based on firmness and dialogue, considering environmental standards to achieve 'legitimate' objectives.
in writing. − we support the human rights and social and environmental standards in international trade agreements, because too often third countries that do not respect workers' rights and do not agree to be active in the fight against climate change are unfairly competing with eu companies. our companies must comply with very strict standards of worker protection and high levels of both wage and tax contributions, they must comply with laws that impose strict controls on emissions into the environment and they must comply with conditions set by local regulatory plans. it is clear that competing companies in other third countries, such as china and india, are not subject to the same controls and rules and have a final product that is clearly competitive with the european one. speaking in the committee on the environment and the interparliamentary meeting on energy, i called for the eu to be involved in the wto, so that europe could apply a carbon tax to countries that are not signatories to climate change agreements. the same should apply to countries which produce by methods too different from those in europe, for example by using child labour, or which do not recognise the rights of workers.
in writing. − the report on the activities of the european ombudsman's office in 2009 is of great interest, as it allows us to assess whether and to what extent the relationship between the community institutions and citizens is transparent, agile and effective. there are many issues on which parliament and the commission express their views without receiving any other feedback from citizens than the reports made to the ombudsman. however, while i approve of the report, i believe that the figure of the european ombudsman, as well as his functions, should be more widely publicized, especially in the member states where he is not immediately recognizable. in fact, it should never be forgotten that a small number of complaints can mean both a low perception of wrongdoing and a low confidence in a possible judicial solution to problems. more publicity would make it possible to extend the case-study at the methodological level, so that it would be possible to state with greater confidence which of the two situations outlined is the case.
in writing. − the european ombudsman's objective is to ensure that citizens' rights, as enshrined in community law, are respected at all levels of the union and that the work of community institutions and bodies is conducted in accordance with the highest administrative standards. recently, his collaboration with the european network of ombudsmen has enabled him to continue implementing a programme to improve the quality of information provided to citizens and potential complainants about their rights. it must continue to work to ensure that citizens' needs are at the heart of all the work of the eu institutions and bodies and must therefore pursue every opportunity to reach an amicable settlement of disputes by launching new investigations on its own initiative to identify problems and promote good practice. i supported this report because it is intended to encourage the ombudsman to continue to work with the institutions to promote good administration and a culture of service and to step up communication efforts so that citizens who need to use his services are properly informed about this, thereby strengthening their trust in the eu and its institutions and improving our own credibility.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, since the protection and respect of human rights is a key issue for the european union, it is clear that the role of the european ombudsman cannot be overlooked in this area. that is why i voted in favour of mrs nedelcheva's report, because the role of the european ombudsman as a promoter of respect for citizens' rights cannot be ignored. this important figure at european level works to ensure that citizens' needs are at the heart of all the institutions' activities and seeks every opportunity to reach an amicable settlement of disputes by launching new investigations to identify problems and promote good practice. the presence of a mediator, ready and willing to resolve disputes and differences between citizens, facilitates the processes of communication and coexistence between people with different ideas, experiences and projects. this is the starting point for strengthening and promoting this figure in europe so that there is good promotion and fair administration of the service.
in writing. - i think that, in the interest of fairness, parliament should have listened to commissioner verheugen's arguments on the merits of the case. i do not think i can therefore express any criticism of him. however, i support the ombudsman's position, as i believe that cooperation between the institutions is and should continue to be one of the strengths of the ombudsman's own work. in this respect, the late replies and the evasion of obligations which are not legislative but moral, indicate a reprehensible attitude. the construction of social capital, in putnam's view, goes beyond the lawfulness of behaviour, to look at the good faith, consistency and morality of the same. therefore, whatever the commissioner's motives, my solidarity goes without doubt to the ombudsman.
in writing. − the special report of the european ombudsman following the draft recommendation to the european commission concerning complaint 676/2008/rt was voted on in plenary today. in march 2007, a non-governmental organisation active in the field of environmental protection requested access to certain documents under regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 regarding public access to european parliament, council and commission documents. the european parliament, on behalf of the committee on petitions, supports the criticisms of the european ombudsman and his recommendation to the commission on complaint 676/2008/rt and recognises that the excessive delays in responding to the ombudsman on this issue constitute a breach by the commission of its duty of sincere cooperation under the tfeu. furthermore, the committee on petitions is of the opinion that the commission's lack of cooperation on this and other issues concerning access to documents risks undermining citizens' trust in the commission and undermining the ability of the ombudsman and the european parliament to supervise the commission adequately and effectively.
in writing. - for reasons of demographics, i have no memory of the days of the state monopoly on radio and television services and, in all honesty, i do not miss it. although the enormous barriers to entry eventually restrict the entry of new players into the market and therefore competition in this sector is in any case restricted for structural reasons, i have personally witnessed a considerable evolution in competitiveness in the television publishing sector. that being so, i do not think that an exclusively public system is even conceivable, since this would only further reduce the efficiency gains that competitors can make, to the detriment of consumers. on the other hand, a purely commercial television channel may not be interested in pursuing general interest objectives, such as the broadcasting of educational content, which is not always rewarding in terms of audience but is necessary by its very nature. the dual system must therefore be maintained, provided that there are rules to allow free and healthy competition and that there is no collusion between public and private companies, while respecting editorial choices but being aware of the social role that the broadcasting service must play.
in writing. - i have spoken in favour of mr belet's report on public service broadcasting. europe has now entered the digital age and the institutions must ensure a balance in the dual system established between private and public commercial broadcasters. the system of television and radio stations' ratings, which are able to influence public opinion as a whole, is worth all that. the adaptation of eu funding for the public broadcasting system of the member states is crucial because it is directly linked to the democratic, social and cultural needs of each society, as well as to the need to preserve media pluralism and to ensure diverse information and freedom of expression. as this is a matter for national authorities, the eu wants to see more incentives for public service broadcasting in order to revive a service that in many countries suffers from the burden of information policy and control and to avoid imbalances with sometimes unfair private competition.
in writing. - i find it surprising that the un security council first became interested in the particular situation of women in war zones only ten years ago. however, we must now take stock of the results achieved and continue in this direction. the european union has the sensitivity to take these issues into account. in particular, it is time to take a step forward and to recognize that women suffer different traumas, and also experience certain conditions and undergo certain constraints in a much deeper way than men do, on average. i therefore give my full support to the resolution, because those who want to bring peace to warring countries must first of all bring peace to their own people. to that end, target differentiation is the best way to achieve a more efficient use of resources, which is what we want to pursue, especially if the result is a sincere and graceful female smile.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today is 25 november, the international day for the elimination of violence against women. with today's vote on the joint motion for a resolution on the tenth anniversary of un security council resolution 1325 (2000) on women, peace and security, we want to give a tangible sign of our commitment as members of the european parliament but above all as european citizens. it is right to commemorate this tenth anniversary, not to forget that 80 percent of the victims of war are civilians, mostly women and children. the issue of fundamental human rights and the extension of their protection must always be at the heart of the european debate, in order to be able to develop common and effective strategies for the protection of both women and children. we are seeing more and more violence against these groups of people, but in addition to ensuring that the perpetrators of these crimes are held personally accountable, following the intervention of the judicial authorities, we must put in place certain essential conditions to ensure that the phenomenon is reduced as much as possible, by trying to prevent conflicts and by participating in the reconstruction of the areas affected by them.
in writing. − violence against women in conflict-affected areas is often an extension of gender discrimination; furthermore, as this year's international day for the elimination of violence against women coincides with the 10th anniversary of security council resolution 1325, this could and/or should mark the beginning of an enhanced path towards the implementation of that resolution, on which there could be no progress without high-level political guidance and increased resources. i believe that this issue should be addressed in the context of the ongoing review of the eu's human rights policy, through the allocation of specific financial, human and organisational resources for women's participation and gender mainstreaming. i regard this as the starting point for targeted action to strengthen, empower and develop the integration of women. the issue of women, peace and security should become an integral part of the programming and planning of the external financial instruments for democracy and human rights, cooperation and development among peoples.
in writing. the multiplier effect of the pollination phenomenon, i.e. the ratio between the economic value of the pollination itself and the honey produced by it, leads to exceptional results from an economic point of view. it is therefore counter-intuitive, in an age of efficiency in all its forms, to abandon an activity in which the cost-benefit ratio shows the folly of such a choice. as the reasons are not to be found in economic parameters but rather in external conditions, i think the committee's report is a good one in that it seeks to tackle all the factors which currently hamper beekeeping. i also believe that it is worthwhile to encourage this activity by means of accompanying measures, and i think it is necessary to welcome any scientific contribution to this end.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, beekeeping is one of the agricultural exploitation models with the least environmental impact and is therefore an activity particularly suited to protected areas. in my region, the widespread use of beekeeping is not only a good example of land management but also a testimony to the history, tradition and identity of the area. for many years, beekeeping in veneto has produced high-quality products and has contributed to the livelihood of the most disadvantaged areas. however, the sector cannot continue to deliver these results without the european union's contribution to its financing, in cooperation with the national, regional and local levels of government. as the motion for a resolution states, it is important to encourage research into bee diseases and to support european producers in the competition they face with third countries after the eu market is opened to honey imports. i shall therefore vote in favour of this proposal.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on beekeeping because it is important to ensure that attention is paid to a sector which protects biodiversity and produces a complete foodstuff such as honey. this role has led to an increase in the annual contribution to the sector in europe from eur 26 million for the period 2008-2010 to eur 32 million for the period 2011-2013. this funding will be used to support beekeeping, including through national research projects on new methods of combating the high mortality of bees, which has recently reached alarming levels. on the other hand, however, it is important to ensure fair transparency in the distribution of aid and to guarantee more resources to the states which actually need them. i voted in favour of implementing the data census system by 2012. a move towards transparency, so that aid is distributed on the basis of the census data of the hernias in the various member states and not on the basis of estimated data. i thought this was extremely important in order to ensure fairness for public spending and protection for those who actually practice the fishing business.
in writing. - the worryingly increasing bee mortality and the declining number of beekeepers could have very negative consequences on european food production, since, as we all know, the majority of crops and plants depend on pollination. it is therefore appropriate that this parliament should ask the european union to increase its support for the beekeeping sector in view of the renewal of the common agricultural policy. we need to take strong and concrete action to combat this phenomenon and to prevent its negative effects on our economy, both in the agricultural and commercial sectors. the action plan called for in the resolution to combat bee mortality is only the first of a series of measures that must be taken. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - mr president, the objectives of the motion for a resolution are shared: the commission will continue to support the efforts of the member states to achieve the objectives of the treaty, in particular the creation of a single european energy market, security of supply, energy saving, the development of new and renewable energy sources and the promotion of energy networks. i fully agree with the call on the commission to adopt an ambitious action plan for energy efficiency, in order to reduce the eu's dependence, combat climate change, increase job creation and counter the rise in tariffs. it is also necessary to ensure the proper functioning of the integrated market by creating an appropriate system of gas and energy infrastructure. it should be noted, however, that particular emphasis has been placed on certain projects, without specifically mentioning others, which are also of european interest and which nevertheless contribute to the objective of achieving energy security. i believe that to achieve this objective it is necessary not only to support the construction of certain infrastructures but also to have a neutral approach to all the different projects.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report on the energy strategy because it makes a constructive contribution to the european debate on the subject and sets out the guidelines for the future of european energy policy. it is not unknown that the european union is facing many challenges today, and that the eu is increasingly dependent on imports from abroad for energy. the lisbon treaty is the first step towards a change of course in this direction, since it provides a strong framework and legal basis (article 194) for action in the field of energy policy and defines in detail a series of objectives to be achieved, including the functioning of the single energy market, security of supply, energy efficiency and the promotion of energy networks and renewable energy sources. i therefore consider this document to be a very useful contribution to the elaboration and practical implementation of a common energy strategy for the coming decades which will strengthen europe.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, my motivation for voting in favour of the report by my colleague, ms lena kolarska-bobińska, is the awareness that the road to europe's energy future is currently full of obstacles and difficulties that need to be overcome. the challenges facing europe are many and they are: the european energy system needs major investments at a time when the economic crisis is still raging in many sectors. given the current situation in the eu, i believe it is time to implement a new energy strategy to meet the objectives of the climate package (20-20-20). better use of budgetary resources for eu energy and climate policy would be useful. the development of instruments to encourage the development and modernisation of energy networks would also be an interesting strategy, which i support in my position.
in writing. − climate change is a global problem and requires joint responses. a unilateral commitment is certainly a positive sign and is therefore desirable, but it is not enough. although the data confirm that the eu is not the one suffering the most damage as a result of the increase in co2, this does not exclude our sense of responsibility, even for what has been done in the past. we cannot therefore back down from our commitment to make a concrete contribution to reducing emissions, although it is worth stressing that our effort is essentially diplomatic in nature. in particular, consensus must be reached on certain key issues and then addressed together with the other actors. the incentive to free riding can be very strong, but it must be resisted by all means, otherwise the costs that our production system is already starting to pay will be useless, and we will gladly pay them, but only if we achieve results.
in writing. - after the failure of the copenhagen conference, we are finally expecting a step forward. i welcome the resolution on the cancún climate change conference, and in particular the amendments by the ppe group which affirm a principle of common sense and pragmatism: no increase in the emission reduction share can be decided unilaterally by the eu in the absence of concrete commitments by the other major global players. europe must continue to be at the forefront of the fight against polluting emissions, but this cannot be done in the name of an ecological ideology that ignores a common assumption of responsibility, and ends up penalizing hundreds of thousands of small and mediumsized european enterprises, all the more so in a time of crisis.
in writing. - my vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on the preparations for the climate conference to be held in cancún from 29 november to 11 december is mainly due to the need to arrive in mexico with a clear and unambiguous common position. the european union's constructive stance with its acceptance of a second commitment period under the kyoto protocol. however, it does not fall one centimetre behind the conditions set for emissions. no one in the international community should think of abandoning europe and itself in the hope that it will solve the problems of the whole world on its own.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the cancun climate change conference, so that europe can express its opinion in support of the climate agreements at a world-class conference. the european parliament hopes that the heads of state will give the matter top priority by agreeing on concrete measures in which the eu itself can play a leading role and by reaffirming its commitment to the kyoto protocol. global warming is now scientifically proven, so the goal must be to stabilise global greenhouse gas emissions by 2015 at the latest and to achieve a 50% reduction in emissions by 2050 in order to limit the temperature increase to 2°c, thus saving countries, people and ecosystems.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, self-determination of peoples has always been one of the priorities of the northern league. today we are voting on a motion for a resolution which seeks to ensure respect for human rights and acceptable socioeconomic conditions for the people of western sahara. we condemn the unjustified and violent reaction of the moroccan government which has repressed in blood a peaceful and democratic protest. in this connection, we call on the commission and the council to suspend the negotiations on the eu-morocco association agreement. on the basis of these assumptions, i support the resolution.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the reason why i voted in favour of the current situation in western sahara is that we have always shown our commitment to paying close attention to the developments in the dispute between morocco and the polisario front over western sahara, especially because of the obvious implications of this problem for the stability of the region. the call to morocco to maintain an open, flexible and unconditional dialogue in order to achieve small but important progress in the peace negotiations conducted under the auspices of the united nations has been made clear on several occasions. i have always personally supported the efforts of the un and its ambassador ross towards a negotiated and sustainable bilateral political dialogue between the two sides. in many eu countries, as well as in italy, there is widespread sensitivity and attention to the conditions of the saharawi people, with particular understanding for the positions and views of morocco. the union, and in particular the mediterranean countries, have always been at the forefront of humanitarian aid to the saharawi people, since the principle of solidarity with the people who are experiencing these problems is fundamental. my vote is for a gradual improvement of the present situation through a mutual commitment to cooperation and dialogue.
in writing. - in the slavic languages "ukraine" means "land of the border". for the russians it has always been a distant province and now ukraine is a frontier country for the european union as well, as a result of the penultimate enlargement. however, for once we do not want the fate of a people to be written in the name of a place. with the caution that comes from respect for democratic will, the european union is consistently playing its role as a global actor, offering itself as a guarantor of freedom, democracy and pluralism in a situation where respect for these values can make it possible to achieve the stability that the country so badly needs. the enlargement process involves not only strategic and commercial considerations, although these aspects are also important, but above all a constant and peaceful work of broadening the cultural sphere, which refers to the universe of values of which the eu is the bearer. for six years now, since the orange revolution, which will mark its anniversary in a few weeks, the country has been going through a period of democratic consolidation. we hope that our presence and practical closeness will help to build up a genuine democratic conscience and to respect it.
in writing. − i believe that improving relations with a neighbouring state, specifically an eastern partnership state, concluding trade agreements and increasing the exchange of information and facilitating the movement of citizens between different countries, is a fundamental area which the eu must never give up; that is why i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on ukraine. i fully agree with the content of the resolution which, by implementing the action plan, sets the conditions for the liberalisation of short-stay visas in the eu and strengthens the union's position on the democratic development of the country after the last local elections. the resolution also allows ukraine to participate in eu programmes and sets out the implementation of new gas laws after kiev joins the energy community.
in writing. the european union's commitment to curb co2 emissions cannot be carried forward through declarations of principle and ideological oppositions. whatever the consequences of the problem, and regardless of the often radical solutions that emerge from studies with more or less evidence, it is our responsibility not to push the environment to change because we do not know for sure what problems we are facing. trade policies must play their part in this. it is easy to ask member states to reduce emissions, but it is useless if the most polluting production facilities are moved to countries close to our borders. it is politically convenient to promote campaigns on the consumption of local products, but it is pointless if the raw materials or intermediate products are purchased from the other side of the world. responsible action also requires careful calibration of trade policies, based on careful consideration of all the issues surrounding them. to close our eyes is to deceive ourselves first.
in writing. we are strongly opposed to this report because we cannot accept an instrumental attitude which is totally contrary to the economic interests of our social and productive reality. the idea that we can solve the problem of co2 emissions into the environment by ourselves as europeans is pure utopia. after asking too much at the copenhagen summit last year, we have not learned our lesson and again a document is being prepared which is asking too much also in view of the next summit on climate change in cancun. we have no doubt about the outcome if that text, when it comes to the house, is approved, ends up in the same way as the previous one, thrown in the trash. this report seems to set the tone for the next document to be prepared for the summit on climate change (cop16).
in writing. - the report shows that the aim is to instill in the behaviour of businesses the values which have always characterised the european union and its predecessors. the aim is fully acceptable, provided that it is implemented correctly and does not impose on our undertakings burdens which undermine their competitiveness, which is already restricted by often rigid rules in areas such as labour law and environmental standards (areas in which, moreover, no one in the member states questions the social benefits that accompany the burdens of cost structures). i therefore believe that we must act with caution, because this is not the time to impose burdens that are not backed by unanimous recognition and a shared collective will.
in writing. - after the climate, energy and food crises, the international financial crisis, which has led to a social crisis everywhere, only increases the need for strong rules to ensure that the world economy is better regulated and does not develop to the detriment of societies. international trade, which is at the heart of globalisation, is not exempt from this requirement. for citizens everywhere, the development of international trade is justified only if it contributes to economic development, employment and an improvement in living standards. it is only on this condition that the opening up of trade is experienced as positive and accepted. on the other hand, it provokes very strong opposition when it destroys jobs or calls into question living conditions, social rights and the environment. trade policy cannot therefore be reduced to the immediate interests of a few economic operators. for europe, trade policy must be consistent with all the union's objectives, in particular those of its foreign policy, of which it is one of the levers to promote the concept of a regulation of globalisation.
in writing. − a healthy market economy cannot do without continuous and constant monitoring of the state of competition within itself. however, such control cannot take the ideological form of a set of parameters which apply to everyone. the situation in each market niche must be examined on a case-by-case basis in order to make a fair assessment of compliance with those principles which, applied mechanically, would end up in paradoxical and uneconomic situations. the commission's attempt to control horizontal cooperation in specialization agreements and in research and development agreements, two rather sensitive areas whose peculiarities justify the confidential treatment to which they are subject, should therefore be appreciated.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the death sentence of tareq aziz and the tragedy of persecuted christians are perhaps two subjects that should have been kept logically separate. however, it is perhaps a good thing that we are discussing them together, because what we want to say through this resolution is that we want justice in iraq and justice for iraq. we want justice in iraq because those christians who have become hostages of the fundamentalist projects of many groups fighting for power are certainly innocent. we want justice for iraq because the process which is under way to restore stability and democracy to that country does not deserve to see its face scarred by the killing of a man who may be guilty, but who certainly does not deserve to be put to death. i therefore believe that the instrument of a resolution can become even more concrete if we also incorporate these judgments and these issues into the content of the agreement between the european union and iraq, which can establish in a concrete way that we are setting conditions for economic agreements and that these conditions are met through respect for human rights and respect for iraqi christians.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this parliament must speak out strongly and decisively against the attacks on the christian minorities in iraq. this is the chapter in a long history of discrimination and martyrdom, which has lasted for 2,000 years and is incredibly continuing in the middle of the third millennium. i agree with the need to support moderate iraqi groups and christian refugees in kurdistan and with the need to remove references to religious affiliation from identity papers. however, what i would like to denounce today is what i consider to be the most absurd aspect of this sad event. for the christian faith the symbol is the cross, which is apparently a symbol of death but in reality it is a symbol of freedom because, also for the christian faith, the death of christ on the cross has freed man from sin and darkness. it is truly incredible that there are people who are not free to venerate a symbol of freedom because when they leave a church they are killed just for the guilt of having entered.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the abolition of the bilingual system in tibet is an illiberal act which goes against respect for the cultural identity of a minority and against respect for human rights. trade agreements or business contracts with china cannot be a bargaining chip for europe to avoid seeing the serious discrimination which persists against the tibetan people. the tibetan people have the right to continue to be and feel at least a people and to do so they must be free to cultivate their traditions, history and language, in short to preserve their identity, of which linguistic belonging is an essential feature. the plan to eradicate tibetan culture, which has not yet been carried out under the symbol of the hammer and sickle, despite decades of persecution of tibetan monks and people, cannot now be cleverly perfected by eliminating the tibetan language and imposing chinese.
member of the commission. − madam president, we are discussing an issue which exists in almost all countries where minorities live – namely the preservation of a language, culture, and equal access to education. that is about reconfirming our values, mr bütikofer. before addressing the issue of tibet, allow me a quick word on our bilateral relations with china. our strategic partnership is strong, which permits us to tackle all issues, including the most sensitive ones. we have constructed an impressive framework of high-level interactions where we regularly address the global challenges that our citizens are facing without, however, neglecting the issues where our views may differ. the overall situation in tibet is one of those where we differ. the moves to institute chinese as the main language of instruction in tibetan areas raise complex and sensitive issues. china needs to strike the right balance so as to allow the effective instruction and preservation of the tibetan language, as a living language for maintaining education in the tibetan language and as the mother tongue in tibetan areas while, at the same time, teaching chinese in parallel to give tibetan students decent chances of future employment. the remoteness of tibetan areas does not make this task any easier. we sincerely hope that china will ensure that tibetan is used as the main language of instruction in schools in tibetan areas and ensure the protection of minority languages in the other parts of china in the same way. seeking the view of experts and avoiding discrimination and the influence of ideology are good recipes for the way forward. the eu is ready to share its expertise, should china so decide. we hope – and here is my direct response – to have a frank discussion with the chinese authorities on this very issue at the next round of the eu-china human rights dialogue. it is most important that china should allow open public consultation in order to allow those affected by any changes to language policy to freely express their opinions, which would have to be taken into account. we have followed also with deep concern reports of the detention of several tibetan students and teachers who peacefully demonstrated in protest against the government’s education reform plan. we urge china to release the detainees and to enter into discussions with tibetan civil society on the merits of the proposed reform. as a final point, i would like to recall the eu’s long-standing position with regard to tibet. the preservation of tibet’s unique culture, language, religion and traditions and the need to achieve a system of meaningful autonomy for tibet, within the chinese constitution, remains a top priority for the eu. these are issues that we are persistently trying to address in the framework of our political dialogue with china.
in writing. mr president, despite the constant interest and commitment of many world leaders, institutions and ngos in calling on the chinese authorities to avoid resorting to violence against the tibetan population, it seems that these demands are being ignored altogether, and international relations are being compromised. the ep has for years shown its support and solidarity with tibet, a country which has always fought against the oppressive and discriminatory policy of the chinese authorities, which have for years threatened the territorial and cultural autonomy of the tibetan people. the latest act of repression was beijing's decision to introduce chinese as the official language in tibet, despite the fact that people speak tibetan and consider mandarin a foreign language. we are witnessing a cultural genocide, because this decision expresses the clear intention to annihilate this people, not only geographically but also culturally, by preventing the younger generations from learning their culture and, above all, their linguistic heritage. in view of china's unwavering and rigid attitude towards tibet, i would urge the european parliament to maintain an uncompromising attitude towards the serious violations of human rights and the rights of minorities by the chinese authorities and to reiterate our closeness and our support for the tibetan people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at this moment we are all still rejoicing at the release of aung san suu kyi and we all have in our minds the images of the enthusiastic crowds who welcomed her home, where she found her children who were only a few years old and who were now well over the age of majority. it is a moment of great excitement, it is a celebration for the people and the opposition of myanmar, but it is certainly one of the facts that needs to emerge. our interlocutor today is undoubtedly the military junta, which must make it clear in a way that is no longer definable whether the release of aung san suu kyi was an act of propaganda, a mirror for the polls or, on the contrary, the first step towards the recognition of the rights of freedom of expression to her, and therefore also to all other burmese political prisoners, and a step towards free and democratic elections. that is what europe must demand and demand. the joy of aung san suu kyi's release must be accompanied by a strong demand for this.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to make it clear that i do not intend to say that christians are a minority more than other minorities. it is true that at this moment in the debate in iraq there is a proposal on the table to concentrate all christians in one province. this is clearly unacceptable, because we would force those from kirkuk, mosul and baghdad who are christians to be ghettoized. we hope that the european institutions will make a commitment to this and we will also incorporate this clarification in the report on iraq by the committee on foreign affairs.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely because of the relations which must exist between the three institutions - the council, the commission and parliament - that i think it appropriate to support your proposal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it has been more than a month since the conviction of the pakistani catholic peasant, asia bibi, for blasphemy. we cannot fail to recall the importance of protecting the inviolable rights of the human being, among which we include freedom of expression in our charter of rights. in countries like pakistan, the accusation of blasphemy has already caused the death of 46 people in the last ten years, fuelling religious intolerance and, therefore, islamic fundamentalism. all of these people were killed outside prison on charges of blasphemy or were found dead in prison. asia bibi is risking her life not only by the law enforcement of pakistan, but also by the hands of some fanatics. so pakistani law fuels this climate of persecution and unjust deaths. i conclude by urging the entire international community to press for the abolition of the blasphemy law in the pakistani penal code and for the release of all those convicted of offences against freedom of expression in the short term.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for over a month a group of 250 people, including 80 eritreans, have been held hostage by traffickers in the sinai desert in egypt. some of this group had previously been rejected by the coasts of some european countries. the kidnappers demand $8,000 for their release, and in the process subject them to the most atrocious forms of abuse and deprivation. there have already been the first six deaths, and there is also talk of organ harvesting, which is being smuggled into the market. it is time for the international community and the european union to say 'enough!' it is time for clear words on the guarantee of the right to asylum everywhere, it is time for some governments to reconsider their fallacious policies of refusal! the holy father has asked for it, foundations, associations and political figures have asked for it. we ask that you, mr president, together with commissioner ashton, act immediately to put an end to this ordeal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support the request made by my colleagues to the commission to assess the implementation of the agreement between the european union and the russian federation on the facilitation of the issuance of visas. this demonstrates the common intention of the parties to work towards the complete abolition of the visa requirement in the long term, given the impact that the proper implementation of the objectives of facilitating and simplifying visa procedures may have both on individuals and on the conduct of economic and commercial relations. i therefore believe it is important to monitor the implementation of this agreement; this would allow for a considerable development of strong personal, cultural, scientific and economic links between the european union and its main western european partner.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report could have been voted for, but unfortunately it has been altered by amendments which we consider to be unavoidable and unnecessary, replacing the words 'illegal' and 'illegal' with the word 'irregular', as if we were afraid to say things as they really are. on the other hand, the positive aspect is that it provides for the creation of a network of immigration officers, both in consular authorities and in international organisations, whose task is to prevent illegal immigration and to facilitate the return of illegal immigrants. in addition, the exchange of information related to illegal migration flows directly between states, embassies and international organisations can be useful in countering the activities of criminal networks. too many human lives have been broken. the european union cannot afford to lose sight of the challenge of preventing trafficking in human beings.
on behalf of the efd group. the report we are discussing certainly contains some positive elements, madam president, ladies and gentlemen. the general thrust is to simplify procedures and cut red tape for thirdcountry workers legally resident in a member state. however, i would like to remind you that today in europe tens of millions of citizens - including many young people - are without work because of the structural weaknesses of the european production system and because of the effect of a crisis which does not seem to be coming to an end. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. if europe can provide jobs for its citizens, it will create a solid social base to accommodate the flow of migrants from outside. the slogan must be first of all to make europe grow on its own feet and by its own efforts. our countries will then have the strength to give jobs to others.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the solution we are discussing is a wrong one, profoundly unfair to so many weak people and in some ways even self-destructive, because it is clear to everyone - and it has already been pointed out - that there is a contradiction between discussing a single permit, but starting from derogations and exceptions. the exclusion of posted workers, seasonal workers and refugees from the solution under discussion is a serious blow to the uniformity of rights, both in terms of employment and citizenship. and this is the even more profound negative news: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this parliament will have to discuss the issue of activating the reports for seasonal workers later. the commissioner, seasonal workers are not only foreign citizens but also european citizens and if material conditions and citizenship rights make them different from one another, it is inevitable that the enterprise system will look for ways of using these people downwards. as regards the seconded workers, can you imagine the situation on the global market for large multinational companies, if they can have favourable conditions here for people who come to work for us, but are hired and regulated under the conditions of their countries of origin? a new, but profoundly negative, condition will be created. not only dumping as a regular daily occurrence, but also the difference between citizens, which europe has never had, not even in its more recent history. unity is essential and for this reason the measure must be radically changed.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, access to employment is currently regulated only for certain specific categories of thirdcountry nationals. in fact, not everyone benefits from the general principle of equal treatment in access to employment. in this context, the european union must work to ensure equal treatment for both third-country nationals residing legally in the member states and for persons who are recognised as refugees or persons in need of international protection under directive 83 of 29 april 2004. we must avoid that there is a growing demand for seasonal workers, for example, simply because they are paid less or have different, lower costs than a european citizen recruited for the same job. we must also avoid, for example, the risk that many multinationals will move their headquarters to countries such as morocco or turkey and send their employees to work in european branches because it is cheaper. for reasons of social justice, ensuring equal treatment of european citizens in terms of pay, working conditions and social security is essential. i therefore think it is right that seasonal workers, posted workers, refugees and selfemployed workers should be included in this directive. making a difference will become extremely dangerous.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 18 december 1990 the un adopted the international convention on the protection of the rights of all migrant workers and members of their families. the convention is one of the nine principal human rights instruments of the united nations. unfortunately, after 20 years, none of the member states of the european union has signed or ratified the convention. i believe that the recognition of the rights of third-country nationals who live and work regularly in the european union must be a priority for a europe facing the new challenges of integration, non-discrimination and the protection of human rights. i therefore ask all members to support amendment no 16 and to sign the written declaration 96 which i have signed with cornelia ernst, sylvie guillaume and franziska keller to call for the member states to ratify the un convention on migrant workers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the report by my colleague, mrs mănescu. multi-level governance plays a key role in cohesion policies and in this area the multi-level approach, which involves cooperation and division of responsibilities at different levels of government, is put into practice in the management of regional funds. the commission promotes initiatives for the benefit of regional and local authorities. there must be a greater incentive to support such proposals, in order to achieve effective coordination and effective implementation of community programmes. the partnership must be guaranteed by a culture based on dialogue between the different actors involved. regional cooperation must be transparent and ensure equal involvement of the parties concerned. to this end, it is important to provide adequate training for subnational level representatives through initiatives such as erasmus for regional and local officials, which should be financially supported by the commission. it is also useful for the exchange of good practice and for improving the quality and effectiveness of the management of cohesion policy funds.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commission representatives, we are laying the foundations for europe in 2020, imagining it as inclusive, intelligent and innovative, and in doing so we must clearly situate our challenges in the global context. the competition for competitiveness can only be faced and won if we can create uniform standards within the european union. cohesion policy, in its three dimensions - social, economic and territorial - together with the structural funds, is the instrument on which we should focus our attention. it is not on this basis that we can think of making the necessary cuts to respond to the financial crisis. on the contrary, we have a duty to take it upon ourselves to implement it, improving it where it has failed. on the basis of the data collected and the analysis of the results achieved, the committee on regional development, in the report by mr luhan, stresses the close relationship between competition and cohesion and proposes corrective measures for the next programming period. it is undeniable that europe can only be competitive if it succeeds in overcoming the territorial disparities between the different regions. in this respect, i thank mr luhan for accepting my amendment to reiterate the possibility of introducing favourable tax conditions for transitional periods of no more than five years - a possibility already contained in the resolution voted by this parliament in february 2006. it is a useful means of addressing some of the critical problems encountered in the implementation of cohesion policy, such as the complexity of procedures, the inadequacy of controls and the greater effectiveness of monitoring. a number of corrective measures are proposed on these methodological points to optimise the impact of cohesion policy in order to increase the union's economic competitiveness. as the luhan report points out, the emphasis must be on both horizontal and vertical partnership between local authorities and co-financing, which must be taken as fundamental principles. it is also important to speed up the simplification of procedures and access to finance, as is the integrated approach to the application of the funds and the maintenance of transitional arrangements, especially at this difficult stage. the bottom-up approach, involving the regions concerned, is designed to ensure that development support takes advantage of the specific features of the territory. finally, the report emphasizes two main objectives: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. i think this report is important because it gives us all a road map to answer the question still contained in the title of the report in full.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the figures provided by the court of auditors in its 2006 and 2008 annual reports on the control systems in place for cohesion policy are certainly alarming. these systems were not sufficiently effective and had an error rate of 12% for the amounts reimbursed in 2006 and 11% in 2008. to reduce this error rate, it is essential that the european commission strengthen its oversight function on policies at local and regional level. the development of a guide for public and private actors and the establishment of a training and mobility system on how to apply multi-level governance policies in practice could be effective measures to improve regional policy. in addition, member states must strengthen the role of regional and local authorities, particularly following the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. cooperation at the level of cross-border regions should also be facilitated; in many areas of the european union, the potential for cooperation between regions and local authorities in neighbouring member states is very high, particularly in areas such as tourism, agriculture, industry and environmental policy. i take advantage of the fact that i finished my speech in the time required to greet the interpreters, who have always been so kind to us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am in full support of the motion for a resolution by mr juvin on the impact of advertising on consumer behaviour. given the importance of advertising not only for the economy but also for the internal market and for consumers, i believe it is essential to take action to eliminate the negative consequences that certain advertising practices may have for them. in particular, i very much appreciate the rapporteur's analysis of the existing legislative and extra-legislative framework and the shortcomings in its interpretation and implementation which have prevented an adequate level of harmonisation from being achieved. efforts should be concentrated on the suppression of unfair commercial practices in the advertising sector by extending the scope of the existing framework. the proposal provides an appropriate solution to the constant problem of finding the right balance between conflicting requirements such as freedom of expression and consumer protection. in conclusion, i would once again like to congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs.
in writing. i share much of mr juvin's views on the impact of advertising on consumer behaviour. however, i believe that the prevention of the dissemination of comments on social networks, forums/blogs - which by their very nature risk becoming a modern type of 'hidden advertising' - can be implemented by identifying the new forms of illegality favoured by the internet and by extending the regulation of the 'archiving of data to online content providers', rather than invoking forms of censorship, as i consider it a priority to respect the right of every citizen to be able to express his opinion also on the internet, when it is not proven that it violates the law. i am surprised that anyone would think of censoring a comment on a forum that is believed to be able to influence consumer purchasing choices, and instead consider the proposal to extend the current directive 2006/24 on data retention to allow the detection of paedophiles who harass children through social forums to be a violation of citizens' privacy. two weights and two measures? consumers, especially younger consumers, must be protected from hidden advertising. nevertheless, freedom of expression, which is one of the pillars of our democracies, must be proportionately protected. i therefore hope that the competent authorities can be provided with the necessary tools to identify the perpetrators of internet crimes by extending directive 2006/24 to content providers, as already requested in parliament's statement p7_dcl(2010) 0029 of 23 june 2010.
the agenda includes the report by mr kinga gál, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union (2009) - effective application after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon (2009/2161 (ini)) (a7-0344/2010).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we cannot but welcome a report such as that which has been so cleverly drawn up by mrs gál, who has the merit of dealing in a timely and detailed manner with the subject of the implementation of fundamental rights. i would like to make a few brief comments on the subject of implementation. thanks to the charter of fundamental rights, which is now binding, and the lisbon process, which is now unstoppable, there is no doubt that the promotion of well-being and the individual is achieved in practice through a policy of genuinely shared values, in which the concrete figures are the concrete results achieved. for this reason, we must take account of the lisbon and stockholm provisions, of key principles such as solidarity, integration and the fight against organised crime and terrorism, and of the fact that the principle of subsidiarity obviously cannot be a limit to the implementation of fundamental rights in a people's europe. in a few days' time we shall be approving a new dossier and the new regulation on the citizens' initiative, human trafficking. these are integrated dossiers which certainly constitute a renewed regulatory framework. all these measures have a clear objective: to value human dignity. i conclude, mr president, by saying that the power of verification and effective sanction must be implemented in 2013, which is the year of citizenship for the citizen. this is certainly an important distinction to make in order to assess the extent of this measure.
mr president, despite the european convention on human rights, the charter of fundamental rights, articles 6 and 7 of the eu treaty and national constitutions, human rights continue to be seriously violated on a daily basis and in the eu and its member states. in my country italy there is a regime in which freedom of the press is violated, political parties participate in elections by presenting false signatures, state secrets cover up attacks (including mafia attacks), the prime minister we hope he is still a little profits from international cooperation with regimes such as the russian and libyan ones, as confirmed by wikileaks. the union cannot afford to turn a blind eye to this. for these reasons i support the report, which contains many of the amendments which i tabled and which were approved in the libe committee. among these, i would point out paragraphs 20 and 40 which call for monitoring and sanctioning human rights violations and for freezing national legislative proposals that risk violating human rights before they are approved and until the eu has given its consent. i also supported the encouragement of the use of articles 6 and 7 of the treaty for human rights violations and the strengthening of the mandate of the fundamental rights agency. the report makes many positive calls on minorities, lgbt rights and rights, immigrants and asylum seekers, freedom of the press and social rights and for these reasons i would urge all colleagues to vote in favour of the report.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank, together with the rapporteur, all the members of the committee who have worked on these matters and all the members who have spoken today in this chamber, showing that fundamental rights are very important and i can only support what has been said by several members of parliament, namely that it is high time that we dealt with fundamental rights in the european union in order to have credibility and to be able to speak about fundamental rights outside the european union. this had been a little neglected. it won't be in the future. i think that the commission's annual report on the application of the charter, which will take up a little bit of all the remarks that have been made by both sides on specific discrimination, will really allow us to put on the table every year what is wrong and try to correct it. how can i correct him? there is this idea of the freezing mechanism, as the rapporteur has called it, this system of prevention whereby action in a member state would be intervened in until the action was launched. i have had my experts analyse this and the institutional issues raised by such a mechanism are very complex. for the time being, but we will have to continue the analysis and see what is really going on, it seems to me that there is no legal basis for this and that a change in the treaty would be necessary to enable such a preventive mechanism to be activated. the idea is attractive. we will continue to look for what mechanism could be used without changing treatment to address the most pressing. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that the charter is not applicable in the absolute sense, because this is a mistake that is often made. it is only applicable when member states put european rules into practice, for example when a european directive, which was agreed between the council and parliament, is subsequently incorporated into european law. at that point, the charter applies, but it does not apply in the absolute sense. in the absolute sense, that is to say, in all other cases, the national courts have the responsibility to intervene. when the european union becomes a member of the council of europe convention, there will be an additional dimension that we will then have to put into practice in the way we manage rights policy. this seems to me to be of paramount importance, beyond all the specific questions that have been asked - and i will answer them individually to the members who have asked them - i think the big question is the fundamental question. the charter is not yet fully understood by the outside world, in our member states and by governments. we must therefore inform the public so that there is a culture of rights and a policy of values throughout europe, so that everywhere, when laws are made and when they are applied, people ask themselves whether they are in accordance with the values we have subscribed to, that is, we as politicians must ask ourselves almost systematically, when we act, whether what we are doing is compatible with the fundamental rights we have subscribed to. this seems to me to be the most important element. i can tell you that today the commission is going to take a decision on the abolition of the exequatur, that is to say, a proposal will be put forward so that judicial decisions can circulate freely throughout europe. this is a decision of major importance. and for the first time, when proposing this new regulation, we examined the respect of fundamental rights, not just in terms of economic analysis, in terms of the impact on the market, but also in terms of the impact on values. as you can see, we are gradually moving towards this new policy and i think that we should, between the commission, the council and this house, make sure that this annual report on the application of the charter, which i will be presenting on behalf of the commission and which parliament will criticise or approve, becomes a great moment of truth and offers an opportunity to put everything to rest. it is also a matter of really showing the outside world, our voters, that, yes, the charter is alive. the charter is not just a text, it is a practice. and if it is not put into practice, the elected representatives of the people will say so loud and clear. that is what we must try to achieve in the two or three years before the next elections. i think we can achieve this gradually with the first exercise of this kind in the spring and then the establishment of a tradition in this house so that no one can ever again say when on wednesday or thursday you will be dealing with human rights outside the union. "you haven't put your own house in order". let's do it together!
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by teresa jiménez-becerril barrio and carmen romero lópez, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the draft directive of the european parliament and of the council on the european protection order (00002/2010 - c7-0006/2010 - 2010/0802 (cod)) (a7-0354/2010).
the s&d group has been represented. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with this proposal for a directive for which i am very grateful to the rapporteurs with whom i worked as a shadow rapporteur parliament shares and extends the council's proposal to protect in all 27 member states persons who are subject to forms of persecution or to serious and repeated threats by known and identified persons, often former fiancés or former spouses or partners, who endanger their physical integrity, dignity, personal freedom or sexual integrity. the violence and killings are increasing, especially of women whose threats and complaints have often been underestimated by the police and the judiciary itself, but at present protection orders and measures against the aggressor are only valid in the issuing state. commissioner reding, this measure which is being approved may not be perfect, but it fills a legislative gap! the construction of the european area of freedom, security and justice has always been carried out empirically, sometimes with the necessary coercion. we consider this initiative to be important because it will enable citizens of the union, men and women, and all those living in europe to move freely across borders, bringing with them their rights as persons and their rights to protection and security, as stated in article 3 of the treaty of lisbon, which we in the s&d group would have liked to have as a legal basis to give a more coherent meaning to the implementation of the proposal. the establishment of the ope guarantees that the protected person is also protected in the other member states, through a rapid and free procedure. each member state shall identify a competent authority responsible for informing victims of their rights, promoting campaigns, collecting analytical statistics and informing the person when the national protection order is issued. it also gives a strong impetus to the creation of the european legal area and the implementation of freedom of movement, but also applies for the first time the legislative initiative procedure in co-decision between the council and parliament. i hope that the council will confirm this commitment and i hope that the commission, while showing particular attention to the next package on safety for victims, will not miss this specific opportunity to respond today to the very serious situation also demonstrated by european and national statistics. this could lead, among other things, to important legislative convergence between member states. i therefore suggest that we avoid delays and make a specific commitment to this particular type of victim protection.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that this directive on the european protection order for victims also marks an epochal step towards providing concrete guarantees for women in particular, but - as has already been said - not only for them. the guidelines for this measure had already been drawn up, first by the treaty of lisbon and then by the stockholm programme. i would like to applaud the two rapporteurs, mrs teresa jiménez and mr romero lópez, for their diligent work and the many difficulties they encountered in the council to give a meaningful impetus to this particularly important proposal for an area of freedom, justice and security that is really serving the citizen. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i am sure that the council will take them into account. the fact that the measures are ready, timely and effective suggests that they can also be used to protect the victim's family. we look forward to the commissioner's more detailed package on the protection of victims of violence, which will arrive in the coming weeks. i would like to conclude, madam president, by saying how important it is for the practical implementation of this measure that close cooperation between the member states be combined with a high degree of sensitivity, and how important it is not to forget the importance of psychological support for the victims. i am sure that the commission will take this into account in the final stage of this legislative process.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i very much appreciate the work done by the two rapporteurs, but the problem with this draft directive is that it is based on the most typical model of stalking, where one person has been the victim of violence by another person and therefore we must take steps to protect him from the repetition of any form of physical or moral violence. it is obviously a matter of fundamental importance to hundreds of thousands of women in the eu and that is why i fully support its content. unfortunately, these provisions do not take into account the victims of organised crime, who in most cases are not to be defended by an identified or identifiable person, but by organisations which certainly cannot be notified of a restrictive measure. i therefore think that the european parliament should regard this directive as a first step in the implementation of the stockholm programme. i think that the rapporteur herself, mrs jiménez, and the commissioner herself are guided by this principle, in that they expressly refer to measures to protect victims of crime. i appeal to the european commission because in the package of measures on the protection of victims, planned for 2011, we also want to protect victims of organised crime and victims of crime at european level.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i did not intend to speak again, but what has been said needs to be corrected. the measures which will be part of the victims package include an overarching communication, the lisbonisation of the 2001 framework decision on the standing of victims in criminal proceedings, a proposal on civil protection measures and, if necessary, a proposal on criminal protection measures. this will be put on the table of this house in may next year. we cannot just go ahead and put our ideas on paper. all our proposals must be accompanied by a thorough impact assessment. we need to take this very seriously, aiming for sound studies with real added value. that is what we are doing at the moment. we are finalising the impact assessment in order to determine the details of any actions on legislative and practical measures, with the aim of legal certainty and rapid and efficient protection measures. having said that, i would also like to inform this parliament that, to date, four opinions have been sent by national parliaments on the protection order: positive ones from the italian, greek and portuguese parliaments and a negative opinion from the german bundesrat arguing that the directive goes beyond the scope of article 82, as it covers non-criminal measures and the prevention of crime. it has been rejected on the basis of subsidiarity. we are in the middle of a very complicated issue. by carrying out a serious analysis before putting the legal and non-legal proposals on the table, i will try to propose measures which are sound enough not to victimise victims a second time when it comes to protection measures.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by mrs edit bauer and mrs anna hedh, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the prevention and repression of trafficking in human beings and the protection of victims of trafficking, repealing framework decision 2002/629/jha (com (2010) 0095 - c7-0087/2010 - 2010/0065 (cod)) (a7-0348/2010).
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, human trafficking is now, according to estimates by international organizations and police authorities, the second largest source of profit for organized crime worldwide, after drug trafficking. it is estimated that some 30 million people are victims of organ trafficking, prostitution, and forced labor. this means that the fight against this crime of vast proportions is first and foremost a battle for the safety of our citizens against the underground and against the crime that breeds crime. in the face of a phenomenon of this magnitude, europe rightly needs to take drastic measures against those who exploit human beings in various ways. in order to combat this phenomenon, cooperation between the member states and between the police authorities is necessary, but above all the certainty of penalties for traffickers; however, it must be remembered that many people are exploited because they cannot find decent living conditions in their home countries, they live in poverty and despair and are ready to do anything to leave their land for the promise of a better life, which - alas - will not come true. so, in addition to preventing crime and protecting the victims of trafficking, europe must do more and more diligently to ensure that these people can find acceptable living conditions in their own countries. the principle of 'help them at home' must be the guiding principle of european political action, so that our efforts are directed not only towards repression but also towards prevention!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the gender dimension introduced in this proposal for a directive strengthens its instrument for the protection of the most vulnerable individuals. the fact that the lisbon treaty contains numerous references to trafficking in human beings confirms the timeliness and seriousness of the problem. article 5 (3) of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union prohibits the practice of slavery, equating it with a form of slavery and forced labour. the rapporteur has extended the protection with a particular focus on children and women and the conditions of vulnerability which facilitate this form of slavery. it is also right to point out that human trafficking is concealing forms of illegal adoption, forced marriage. i cannot help mentioning the difficulties faced by the border member states in combating illegal immigration. my country, italy first, is confronted daily with the repression of the cases of trafficking that invade our streets, our spaces. communication and therefore awareness raising, involving civil society, is needed; the text, as it stands, provides for the careful protection of victims and aims to eradicate the phenomenon. i therefore express my support for this proposal as it has been put forward and i congratulate the two rapporteurs once again.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as a shadow rapporteur i thank the rapporteurs and i consider this directive to be of extraordinary importance, because it is the first binding action of the union in the fight against trafficking in human beings. fifty years after the un convention, in our civilized europe, hundreds of thousands of people, mostly women and children, are enslaved. for the first time, the eu has a single instrument to tackle trafficking in human beings for both sexual and labour exploitation, including forced begging. three were the priorities of our group: target traffickers with uniform and higher sanctions, including confiscation of assets and their use in support of trafficked persons; ensure a high level of protection and social reintegration of victims with free legal assistance and non-prosecution for trafficking-related offences; enhance the crucial role of ngos, both secular and religious, engaged in supporting victims. i would, however, like to see a revision of the 2004 directive on residence permits for victims, and i would stress that we are proposing to safeguard the best interests of the child by means of enhanced safeguards, and i share commissioner malmström's wish for further measures against sex tourism and child pornography.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased that in the final version participation in criminal organizations for crimes relating to trafficking in human beings represents an aggravating factor which doubles the minimum sentences from five to ten years of imprisonment. article 6a is added, which explicitly refers to the seizure and confiscation of the instruments and proceeds of such crimes. this approach, which i believe is correct and which i hope will be translated into other legislative measures, faces reality and recognises that trafficking in human beings for various forms of exploitation, such as prostitution, criminal activity and organ trafficking, is carried out by international criminal organisations. i am also satisfied with the provision in article 7 which directs member states not to prosecute persons involved in criminal activities which they were forced to commit precisely because they were victims of trafficking. in fact, often the victims of trafficking violence, in addition to the damage, suffer the mockery of being incriminated for what they were forced to do, typical is the case of prostitution. that is why i support the report and thank the two rapporteurs.
madam president, the scourge of human trafficking is a phenomenon which has reached particularly worrying proportions. if originally it concerned mainly women and children recruited for prostitution, today the victims are subjects of all ages and both sexes, inserted in a cycle of exploitation not necessarily sexual but also economic. organized crime networks exploit social vulnerability, family hardship, domestic violence and disability to facilitate immigration by exploiting those involved through the use of force, abuse and threats. we are in favour of the proposed directive. the sanctions against human traffickers must be increased by confiscating their property. in addition, there should be joint action by all member states to strengthen policies to prevent trafficking in human beings by promoting the training of personnel capable of identifying victims or potential victims.
member of the commission. − madam president, thank you for this important debate. i would like to inform you that today the commission will appoint an anti-trafficking coordinator, who will take office in the next month. that person will improve coordination and coherence between the eu institutions and agencies and the member states, will help ensure that best practices are shared in the different member states, develop existing and forthcoming policies and be a contact for third countries. this is very important. by bringing together prevention, law enforcement and victim prevention, this person can ensure that appropriate methods to combat trafficking are used and mobilised appropriately. i will ask the anti-trafficking coordinator to liaise closely with the european parliament and to keep you informed on these developments. the criminalisation issue merits a debate in itself, but it is stated in article 19 of the directive that the commission will in some years submit a report to the european parliament and the council ‘assessing the impact of existing national law criminalising the users of services which are the objects of exploitation of trafficking in human beings on the prevention of trafficking in human beings, accompanied, if necessary, by adequate proposals’. we will surely come back to this issue and i do not rule out our having further proposals on this. having said all this, i think we can be proud of this directive today. it is a very important tool for fighting trafficking and protecting the victims. it has given us an important tool, it has shown the world our commitment to fighting modern slavery and it will strengthen our efforts. i would like to pass on my sincere thanks to the two co-rapporteurs, ms bauer and ms hedh. today’s debate has shown how important your work has been, because you have the support of all the groups. i would like to congratulate you on that.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place in a few minutes today. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, human trafficking, in its various forms such as sexual exploitation, illegal trade in human organs, forced labour and illegal adoption, is a serious violation of human rights enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the scale of this phenomenon is significant and experience has shown that the current union legal framework in this area is not sufficiently effective; the cooperation between the european parliament, the commission and the council is therefore of strategic importance in promoting a european policy to combat this phenomenon effectively. the lisbon treaty has strengthened the european union's powers in the area of judicial and police cooperation between member states in criminal matters, but i still believe that it is necessary to increase sanctions for human traffickers and to further develop assistance to victims of violence. i agree that, in order to discourage demand, the union and the member states should make a greater effort, including through the organisation of awareness campaigns in the countries of origin, transit and destination of trafficking. finally, i encourage the establishment of a european anti-trafficking coordinator to manage the european union's action and policies in this specific area.
in writing. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union's action against trafficking in human beings is not limited to denouncing it, but recognizes the need for precise ex-post action to ensure that those responsible for such a barbaric practice do not go unpunished. these include the harmonisation of penalties and the coordination of the measures envisaged by the union with those already taken by other international organisations such as the united nations. ex-post action must be accompanied by equally important preventive action. firstly, close cooperation between the judicial and financial police authorities to ensure that the economic systems which revolve around these criminal activities are blocked at the outset and all their ramifications are cut off. it is also increasingly important to have accurate and reliable databases that distinguish the various specificities and become the starting point for diversified interventions that will affect each individual case in depth. with this proposal for a directive, the european union wants to strike at the whole chain of inhumane trade which tramples on its founding principles and values.
in writing. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, every year in europe hundreds of thousands of people are sold as objects and fortunately today the need to protect victims of human trafficking from the use of false documents, prostitution or immigration is growing more and more. when we talk about human trafficking, we must not only think about sexual exploitation, forced labour, illegal adoption but also about the problem of organ trafficking which is becoming an increasingly widespread crime. the european legal framework is not effective enough and the european union and the member states need to do more: a consolidated coordination structure is needed between the union institutions and agencies as well as between member states and international partners.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have just a few seconds to express my disagreement with the council's decision to reject the estrela report on maternity leave. today i speak for millions of european mothers and fathers who, like me, were very disappointed by the council's decision. it is an admission of poverty of values in which i do not recognize myself and which i condemn with all my being. i wonder what europe we are heading for, rejecting this proposal was a choice against the families of today, but above all against the families of tomorrow!
mr president, can the list of amendments be put back on the table?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with the rapporteur that we should move towards multi-level governance, with a view to better involving subnational authorities in the definition of development policies, especially in areas covered by the convergence objective, which are concerned with increasing their capacity to adapt to the areas of the member states and to compete on the global market. to achieve greater impact, regional development policies must involve those who know their own territory and can become actors in its development: this is the link between multi-level governance and territorial cohesion that the rapporteur highlighted. the more simplified the rules, the less pressure there is on the bureaucracy and the more rapid and qualitative the european investment in the development of the region. increased assistance to the managing authorities by the commission would help to minimise the errors in the first-level checks that have been recorded in the past.
mr president, i asked for the floor for a statement on the prevention and suppression of trafficking in human beings. i voted in favour of the bauer report, of course, because the fight against trafficking in human beings is and must remain a priority for us. this has become so widespread that it can be described as a new form of slavery. the weakest members of society, women and children, are taken to other countries and exploited through the most infamous forms of prostitution, slavery and pornography. this phenomenon affects one million people worldwide every year, 500,000 in europe alone. those who take advantage of this phenomenon commit a criminal act, finance human trafficking and use people as a commodity. as the report points out, action is needed in the countries of origin and of relocation of victims of trafficking. the solution can only be found through a joint effort, by raising awareness and supporting and assisting the victims, but above all by tackling the root causes of the phenomenon in order to help the countries involved develop appropriate legislation to combat all forms of slavery.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european solidarity fund. i believe that it is a valuable instrument which enables the european union to show its solidarity with the people of regions affected by natural disasters by providing financial support to help them to restore normal living conditions quickly. today's vote was on two requests for intervention. the first was submitted by portugal following the abnormal rainfall on the island of madeira, which caused landslides and severe flooding, causing damage to public and private infrastructure, farms and agriculture. the second call for mobilisation was made by france in relation to the storm xynthia, which caused the death of 53 people, flooded large areas, including residential areas, and caused serious damage to dams and barrages, public and private infrastructure, the road and rail network, agriculture and businesses. finally, i would add that the fund has been mobilised for eur 31 255 790 for the flooding in madeira and eur 35 635 750 for the storm xynthia, for a total of eur 66 891 540.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for slovenia because i consider it a valuable resource to support workers in difficulty because of the economic crisis. the fund was set up in 2006 to provide concrete support to workers made redundant as a result of the relocation of their businesses or, following the derogation introduced in 2009, also as a result of the economic crisis, in order to reintegrate them into the labour market. today's vote was on a request for support for 2 554 workers made redundant by the clothing company mura, european fashion design, for an amount of eur 2 247 940 financed by the egf. i would like to conclude by welcoming the adoption of the report, which shows that the egf is a useful and effective resource in the fight against unemployment as a consequence of globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for germany because i consider it a valuable resource to support workers in difficulty because of the economic crisis. the fund was set up in 2006 to provide concrete support to workers made redundant as a result of the relocation of their businesses or, following the derogation introduced in 2009, also as a result of the economic crisis, in order to reintegrate them into the labour market. today's vote concerned 1 181 redundancies in four production plants of the printing machinery manufacturer heidelberger druckmaschinen ag in baden-württemberg, for an amount of eur 8 308 555 financed by the egf. i would like to conclude by welcoming the adoption of the report, which shows that the egf is a useful and effective resource in the fight against unemployment as a consequence of globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for poland because i consider it a valuable resource to support workers in difficulty because of the economic crisis. the fund was set up in 2006 to provide concrete support to workers made redundant as a result of the relocation of their businesses or, following the derogation introduced in 2009, also as a result of the economic crisis, in order to reintegrate them into the labour market. the request for support concerned 1 104 redundancies, of which 590 were eligible for assistance, in two enterprises operating in nace revision 2 division 29 (manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers), for an amount of eur 633 077 financed by the egf. i would like to conclude by welcoming the adoption of the report, which shows that the egf is a useful and effective resource in the fight against unemployment as a consequence of globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for spain because i consider it a valuable resource to support workers in difficulty because of the economic crisis. the fund was set up in 2006 to provide concrete support to workers made redundant as a result of the relocation of their businesses or, following the derogation introduced in 2009, also as a result of the economic crisis, in order to reintegrate them into the labour market. today's vote was on a request for 1 154 redundancies in 593 enterprises operating in nace revision 2 division 47 (retail trade, except motor vehicles and motorcycles), for an amount of eur 1 560 000 financed by the egf. finally, i would like to stress the importance of the egf, which is proving to be a useful and effective resource in the fight against unemployment as a consequence of globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for spain because i consider it a valuable resource to support workers in difficulty because of the economic crisis. the fund was set up in 2006 to provide concrete support to workers made redundant as a result of the relocation of their businesses or, following the derogation introduced in 2009, also as a result of the economic crisis, in order to reintegrate them into the labour market. today's vote concerned 544 redundancies (of which 350 were eligible for fund assistance) in 143 enterprises operating in nace rev. 2 division 13 (textile industries), for an amount of eur 2 059 466 financed by the egf. i would like to conclude by welcoming the adoption of the report, which shows that the egf is a useful and effective resource in the fight against unemployment as a consequence of globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for spain because i consider it a valuable resource for workers in difficulty because of the economic crisis. the fund was set up in 2006 to provide concrete support to workers made redundant as a result of the relocation of their businesses or, following the derogation introduced in 2009, also as a result of the economic crisis, in order to reintegrate them into the labour market. today's vote concerned a request for support for 528 jobs (of which 300 were eligible for fund assistance) in 66 enterprises operating in nace rev. 2 division 23 (manufacture of products from the processing of non-metallic minerals), for an amount of eur 1 422 850 financed by the egf.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for spain because i consider it a valuable resource to support workers in difficulty because of the economic crisis. the fund was set up in 2006 to provide concrete support to workers made redundant as a result of the relocation of their businesses or, following the derogation introduced in 2009, also as a result of the economic crisis, in order to reintegrate them into the labour market. the report approved today concerned a request for support for 515 redundant workers, 508 of whom were eligible for fund assistance, in the lear automotive (eeds) spain company, operating in the automotive sector in catalonia, for an amount of eur 382 200 financed by the egf. i would like to conclude by welcoming the adoption of the report, which shows that the egf is a useful and effective resource in the fight against unemployment as a consequence of globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for poland. the fund was set up in 2006 to provide concrete support to workers made redundant as a result of the relocation of their businesses or, following the derogation introduced in 2009, also as a result of the economic crisis, in order to reintegrate them into the labour market. today's vote was on a request for support for 658 workers made redundant, including 189 who were eligible for fund assistance, in the company h. cegielski-poznań and four of its suppliers, active in the manufacture of marine diesel engines in the cities of poznań and poviat, for an amount of eur 114 250 financed by the egf. finally, i would like to point out that the adoption of today's reports once again demonstrates the importance of the egf as a valuable resource for supporting workers in difficulty as a result of the economic crisis and as an effective instrument for combating unemployment.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 2003/109/ec to extend its scope to beneficiaries of international protection, because i believe it is important to guarantee refugees the same rights as non-community nationals holding a long-term residence permit. the european parliament has voted today to close a loophole in community law by regulating the legal status of legal longterm residents, which excluded refugees and beneficiaries of international protection. the new rules will give them greater certainty about their legal situation in the european union and will not subject them to unequal treatment compared with third country nationals.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because i am convinced of its positive effects for all those beneficiaries of international protection who have been legally resident in the eu for more than five years but who are not currently entitled to longterm resident status. we are convinced of the need to provide greater certainty about their legal status in the eu, avoiding any possible discrimination against them as compared to third country nationals; we share the strong concern of some member states that they may be hosting a disproportionate number of beneficiaries of international protection due to their particular geographical location or demographic situation. further measures to deal with any unintended consequences, such as measures to facilitate movement and residence in a member state other than the one which granted them international protection, are therefore urgently needed. we therefore support all possible safeguards against refoulement (only the member state which granted international protection should be allowed to proceed with expulsion) and we are committed to facilitating family reunification wherever desirable.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank my colleague mr claude moraes for the excellent work he has done, and i share his view that a constructive approach should be adopted, including most of the amendments proposed by the commission and a number of technical amendments agreed in the council during the negotiations on this instrument. the draft report reflects the desire to take into account some of the concerns of the member states, with the aim of reaching an agreement at first reading, as well as the commitment to protect the interests of beneficiaries of international protection before and after obtaining long-term resident status.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the implementation of the two agreements recently concluded with georgia, i fully agree with my colleague, mrs nathalie griesbeck, that the population must be informed of the new situation and the benefits of the new possibilities which arise from it. in addition, changes to visa policy should be published as soon as possible on the websites of the european institutions.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our vote is an important step towards the creation of a european civil protection force capable of responding quickly and effectively wherever a serious emergency situation arises. as we will all remember, the experience gained in the relief of the people of haiti has highlighted in the european intervention, although extensive and rapid, some critical issues in the management, coordination and visibility of the mission, attributable to the mechanisms of the current system, which is based on voluntary ad hoc contributions subject to different national decision-making processes. the recent european commission communication on the role of civil protection and humanitarian assistance is intended to lay the foundations for a more effective and coherent synergy of actions already implemented at national, regional and local level. the lisbon treaty itself offers the opportunity to define an even more comprehensive, coordinated and operational disaster response capacity. the time has come to speed up the process of equipping the eu with modern and efficient civil protection.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report with a proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the establishment of a european union rapid reaction capability, because i believe that the european union must make a major effort to ensure coordinated and effective responses to the many serious disasters we have recently witnessed. the need for such a commitment was underlined in the commission's latest communication on 'strengthening eu disaster response capacities', which includes an action plan to establish integrated coordination between the various disaster response instruments. i also agree with mrs zanicchi that the time has come to recognise the political importance of strengthening the european union's capacity to respond to disasters and that all available resources must be mobilised to achieve this.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the need for an effective response capacity by the european union, in the face of the multiplication of major disasters in recent years, is what led me to vote in favour of report a7-0332/2010. calls for improving the effectiveness of the eu's response have been numerous in recent years and much more needs to be done to ensure more coherent and visible development. i believe that all available resources must be mobilised to achieve this, as we have moved towards a comprehensive and integrated eu response since 2008, following the last commission communication on this issue. what we all expect from the implementation of the report is a concrete action plan to gradually establish more integrated coordination between the various disaster response instruments.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with the rapporteur and my colleague, mrs iva zanicchi, who believes that the time has come to recognise the political importance of strengthening the european union's capacity to respond to disasters and that all available resources must be mobilised to achieve this objective. i also agree with my colleague that the encouraging results of the 2008 preparatory action should be further evaluated and that the idea of voluntary pooling of resources held in reserve by member states for immediate use in eu operations should be further developed. the rapporteur would like to remind the council and the commission of the recommendation in the barnier report that only preventive organisation and pooling of existing resources can give rise to a european civil protection force.
in writing. - my decision to vote in favour of report a7-0326/2010 goes hand in hand with the current situation of european capitals, which are going through a period of innovation, unprecedented thanks to technological progress. the implementation of mifid, which promotes competition between trading venues for execution services, has increased the efficiency of the price formation process, thus broadening the choice of investors. however, fragmentation of markets has clouded the post-trade transparency of otc transactions and this situation requires a more effective regulatory framework to achieve consolidated post-trade information. i believe that regulators should be able to reconstruct every moment of trading in order to understand the market dynamics and the way in which participants intervene. the impact of new technologies and the emergence of new market participants has led to faster trading and to the opening of direct market access to clients of trading platform members. although the implementation of mifid has brought innovation, it also appears to have contributed to market fragmentation. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that these technological advances must be properly regulated to avoid creating systemic risks for the whole market.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully support the rapporteur, mr kay swinburne, and his idea of promoting competition between trading platforms for execution services has widened investor choice, reduced transaction costs and helped to increase the efficiency of the price formation process. there are currently 136 alternative trading systems (mtfs) which, together with the main exchanges, constitute the organised trading venue system. this system accounts for 60% of the trading volume, while the remaining share is covered by independent intermediaries (broker-dealers) collectively referred to as otc. bilateral trading - where the client transmits an order to the broker and the broker matches the order - which used to be mainly verbal, is now mainly carried out electronically. the commission considers that the mfi's reporting requirements are not sufficient to ensure that the mfi's reporting requirements are met.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i can only support the rapporteur, mrs ana gomes, and i fully share the objective of the adopted cbrn action plan, which should ensure an efficient interaction of national and community initiatives to deal with cbrn risks and prepare the necessary response. however, i agree that the eu's cbrn action plan is weak and lacks coherence on several points. it is of key importance to emphasise that a cbrn action plan offers a valuable opportunity to implement the solidarity clause enshrined in the lisbon treaty. unfortunately, the action plan adopted by the council does not even mention the solidarity clause.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have decided to vote in favour of this report because it is necessary to send a strong signal that europe is getting closer to local and, in particular, regional administrations. at a time when we are experiencing a decentralisation of the member states at various levels, it is necessary to show that the european parliament too has a vested interest in making regional policy a tool for better governance in europe itself.
in writing. − the european union has seen the emergence of local authorities within the member states in recent years. the decentralisation of land management in favour of smaller territorial entities has meant that, through the principle of subsidiarity, they have acquired greater power and a greater say in respect of specific competences delegated by the member states; the regions were thus in direct contact with the european institutions. i voted in favour of mrs mănescu's report precisely because in this context there is a need for greater control and support by the european commission of regional policies. the report also calls for the adoption of a white paper on territorial cohesion, which would be a real step forward for the union towards a new multi-level governance that perfectly integrates european, national and regional competences.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the rapporteur, ramona nicole mănescu, on her excellent work and i also agree with the rapporteur that multilevel governance allows for better exploitation of the potential of territorial cooperation through the relationships developed between public and private actors across borders; agree that the exchange of information between existing and newly established egtcs within existing programmes should be promoted.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with my colleague, mr agustín díaz de mera garcía consuegra, on the competence of immigration liaison officers in third countries, who could make a decisive contribution to the achievement of the objectives of frontex, especially when we consider that the agency has no representation outside the territory of the union. i also agree with the proposed amendment which will lead to the following objectives: make mutually beneficial use of the expertise of liaison officers and the frontex agency, benefit from the information collected by the liaison officers networks and exchange it through iconet (a secure information and coordination network for the immigration management services of the member states), access the external borders fund in order to strengthen the establishment and facilitate the functioning of liaison officers networks and ultimately contribute to the system for submission of half-yearly reports.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced that only through balanced channels of legal immigration, attentive to the needs of the labour markets, can we effectively combat irregular immigration and illegal work. the advantages of adopting this directive are clear: the issuing of a single residence permit and access to the labour market will simplify admission procedures, reduce their costs and reduce the time taken for the procedure. the adoption of this directive is necessary in order to be able to introduce further measures concerning seasonal workers and posted workers in their undertakings, and i hope that this will happen as soon as possible, while respecting the member states' powers to establish maximum quotas for access by third-country workers.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report on the single permit to reside and work in the eu has given us the opportunity to reflect and discuss the important role that immigrants can play in our societies. an important role in which regularity of entry, effective integration and respect for the rules in behaviour are fundamental prerequisites that allow greater participation in the shared development of newly-member communities. in this context, the single permit to vote can be a way of governing the entry and safeguarding the rights and duties of all the people who make up a community. i also supported the proposal for a directive in so far as it does not prejudice the more favourable provisions contained in union law and international instruments. it is regrettable that the house has not adopted the proposal in question, which i believe could be useful in helping to create a common european area of freedom and integration between people who want to work together to make the eu grow.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am sincerely disappointed by the rejection of the mathieu report on the single procedure for applying for residence and work permits. the report is balanced and has been greatly improved by the epp amendments which were adopted with the support of the liberals and conservatives. i regret the failure of the alde group to respect the agreement and the wrong assessment by the ecr group, which open the door to a new commission proposal, probably worse than the present one. the possibility for legal immigrants to obtain the documents they need to stay and work under a single procedure throughout the eu would have been a decisive step forward, a necessary corollary to the necessary strengthening of the fight against illegal immigration through greater cooperation with the riparian states and the strengthening of frontex. the european parliament has been the first to express its views on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and the european parliament has been the first to express its views on the situation in the former yugoslavia.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, together with my group, because i believe that it responds well to the considerable demographic challenges facing the eu in the coming years by establishing a single application procedure for third-country nationals wishing to be admitted to the territory of a member state for employment purposes and by offering them a secure legal status. unfortunately, the negative vote by the house will delay the analysis of this important directive which would have simplified the often complex administrative procedures for the reception of economic migrants and would thus have enabled the labour markets of our member states to meet current and future labour needs, while at the same time offering a tool to combat the exploitation and discrimination to which workers are too often subjected. the aim of this directive is to reduce the disparities between national laws: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. our proposal would not have defined the conditions for admitting third country nationals: the member states would always have been responsible for determining the conditions of admission and the number of migrants to be admitted to their territory for employment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs mathieu's report because i hope that after years of work the guidelines for the drafting of a directive providing for single european rules on permits and rights for non-community workers will be defined. since 2001 work has been under way on a community directive without any result, and it is now hoped that the council will approve it in co-decision with parliament, and that - given the importance of the subject - a conclusion will be reached. this is a crucial point for the development of europe, the ever-increasing demand for labour is leading us towards what is called 'economic immigration', so there is an urgent need for common regulation in this area. the long-term economic development of the union must be supported, and therefore administrative permitting practices for third-country nationals wishing to enter the territory of a member state for employment purposes must be simplified, by offering them a secure legal status. the directive will make it possible to meet present and future labour requirements and will offer a tool for combating the exploitation and discrimination to which these workers are often subject.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with the rapporteur, mrs véronique mathieu, and with the proposal for a directive in the context of the european union's objective of establishing a comprehensive policy on immigration, and it constitutes a framework proposal for thirdcountry nationals, with a twofold objective: (a) to create a single application procedure for the issue of a residence and work permit in a member state; (b) to grant workers from third countries legally resident in the european union a uniform set of minimum rights, on the basis of equal treatment with nationals of the member states.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the vote in the ep on the proposal for a directive establishing a european protection order for victims is an important signal for the defence of persons who are victims of violence. unfortunately, even if the council lacked a qualified majority after the netherlands sided with the countries blocking the initiative, this will not affect the importance of today's vote. the legislative vacuum at european level in the protection of victims of violence requires a concrete response, not confined to the territory of the state in which the victim is present, but extending beyond its borders. the aim of the collaboration of 12 member states, including italy, is to activate a mechanism for alerting and protecting victims within the european territory. i am convinced that it is important, even politically, to reach agreement on this instrument, because it will guarantee protection for victims of all types of crime and provide for removal and interdiction measures against persons who pose a danger. equally important is the possibility for the victim to move to another member state, receiving the information and assistance he needs to start a new life, while continuing to benefit from protection measures.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am in favour of the general idea of the protection order, victims of violence must be protected from further violence by their aggressors and be able to benefit from preventive measures throughout the european union. the draft directive represents a further step forward in achieving the objectives of the stockholm action plan and the european union's initiative to maintain and develop an area of freedom, security and justice. i am aware of the complexity of this initiative, the judicial systems of the member states are different, as are criminal and civil proceedings. i believe that the rapporteur has succeeded in strengthening the continuity of legal protection and in ensuring the best possible protection for victims, while at the same time ensuring legal certainty.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a directive on the european protection order, thanks to the contribution of the council, but above all to the two rapporteurs and to the amendments we have proposed in the commission, represents an excellent instrument for the protection of victims without any limitation on national legislation, and this must be noted as a symbol of regulatory progress in a europe which is trying to standardize rights and protections in each of its member states "step by step". the european protection order instrument as presented makes the protection of the victim who wishes to move freely within the european union more precise and timely. the limit of the diversity, even operational, of our legislative systems is clear, but the scope as defined allows our countries to adapt quickly to the new instrument, thus making our union stronger and protecting the citizens of europe better, especially the most vulnerable. that is why i strongly support this proposal, which would give hope to the many people who see their freedom and dignity violated every day without having all the means to react and who may even be able to start their lives again in another country in the future.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the draft european parliament and council directive on the european protection order because the eu needs a system that strengthens the protection of the life, safety and physical, mental and sexual integrity of citizens who are the victims of attacks. the proposal for a directive aims to strengthen the protection of victims of such crimes within the eu, as protection measures are limited to the domestic legislation of the member states. the resolution seeks to fill a legislative gap in which the victim of aggression is protected outside his own country, thus ensuring that each member state offers the victim adequate protection. the member states will have no obligation to harmonize their internal legislation but may adapt it in order to ensure mutual recognition.
in writing. - i congratulate mr jiménez-becerril and mr romero lópez on the excellent work they have done. victims of crime who are entitled to protection in one member state will be guaranteed the same level of protection across the union, thanks to the new european protection order (epo), approved today, which extends the scope of the rules to include all victims of crime, not just victims of gender-based violence as originally proposed. protection measures exist in all eu member states, but they lose their effectiveness as soon as you cross a border. the european protection order should ensure that any protection granted to a person in one member state also applies in all other member states to which he or she moves or has moved. the european protection order may be issued at the request of the person to be protected if he or she decides to reside in another member state, or if he or she simply decides to stay there. it will be for the state which issued the protection measure to issue an ope and to forward it to the state where the person intends to go. the text still needs to be confirmed by a qualified majority of the member states in the council, which will have three years to transpose it into national law.
in writing. - there is nothing more inhuman than to exploit the lives of other living beings for personal gain, trampling on the respect of every fundamental right. human trafficking is one of the lowest forms of human trafficking in history, a widespread and multifaceted phenomenon. i am glad that parliament has approved the proposal for a directive on trafficking in human beings at first reading. this is a major step forward in the fight against this phenomenon, which is the main activity of many international criminal organizations. the most important point is the recognition of organized crime as the main subject to be combated. finally, the eu proposes effective and concrete distinctions between crime and organised crime, taking account of the specificities of the latter. there are many other positive aspects, such as a much broader definition of exploitation, greater protection for victims and the rule that avoids victims of trafficking being prosecuted for crimes they were forced to commit because of the violence they have suffered or the threat of violence. as amnesty international reports, 'it is often the case that trafficked women are arrested on the charge of prostitution or that they are not guaranteed full access to justice'.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the persistence of economic and cultural inequalities on a global scale has given rise to new forms of slavery, which are no longer necessarily linked to the cycle of sexual exploitation but also to economic exploitation. these are situations that escape the historical notion of slavery, but which have the same offense coefficient as slavery, depriving the victim of the values of freedom and equality on which modern society is based. the victims, who are prized, sold or bartered, stripped of their dignity, are a highly profitable business for organised crime, which has now taken on a transnational dimension. one year after the adoption of the lisbon treaty, many initiatives have been taken in the area of judicial and police cooperation in criminal matters. today, there is a need to strengthen the eu's work by encouraging anti-trafficking actions, collecting data to produce reliable statistics, creating close cross-border cooperation, including the exchange of information and best practices, and also enhanced cooperation with eurojust and europol. a victim-centred approach is also needed, as victims need protection, including legal protection, assistance and programmes to help them reintegrate into society. but above all, we must tighten the sanctions against traffickers and employers who abuse the vulnerability of victims, including minors.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the adoption of this proposal and of new sanctions: human trafficking is a serious crime and a serious violation of fundamental human rights. i hope that this new directive will succeed in filling the gaps in the previous legal framework and that the anti-trafficking coordinator will be established in a clear regulatory framework. although the lisbon treaty has strengthened the role of the european parliament in judicial and police cooperation in criminal matters, it is the member states that can play a key role in combating this crime. if we are to achieve a significant preventive effect, it is necessary that the use of the services of victims of trafficking in the knowledge of the offence be introduced in the member states.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate mr bauer and mr hedh on the painstaking work they have done in drawing up a report on such a topical subject. human trafficking is one of the greatest scourges of modern times, along with slavery, which reduces victims to a condition of exploitation and subservience by unscrupulous criminal organizations. unfortunately, the scale of this phenomenon is very large but not fully known because of the scarcity of data. specific studies are therefore needed to understand the true extent of this phenomenon. at the same time, europe must promote more effective cooperation policies in the criminal and judicial fields, which can also be implemented thanks to article 79 of the lisbon treaty, which lays down the legal basis for the common immigration policy. i agree with the rapporteur's request, namely: increasing penalties for traffickers in human beings and the related confiscation of property; the establishment of a criminal offence for knowingly using the services of victims of trafficking; increased assistance for victims.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, human trafficking is a modern form of slavery and a serious violation of fundamental human rights. human trafficking is also one of the most lucrative activities of criminal organisations. the entry into force of the lisbon treaty has given the eu greater powers in the field of judicial and police cooperation in criminal matters and the report voted on today on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the prevention and repression of trafficking in human beings and the protection of victims represents the european legislator's commitment in this area. the text lays down minimum rules for the definition of criminal offences and the applicability of sanctions for traffickers, introducing common rules to improve prevention and protection of victims, who will have to receive appropriate assistance, including legal aid. the trafficking of human beings, which is closely linked to organised crime, as is drug trafficking or money laundering, must be combated by strong and effective measures. experience gained in recent years has shown that both judicial and police cooperation and a high degree of harmonization of national legislation are essential in the fight against such criminal phenomena.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, my decision to vote in favour of the report a7-0348/2010 is based on the essence of the human being as such. the defence of individual freedom is a fundamental right to fight for, as human rights violations that reduce people to a state of dependence through threats, humiliation and violence are a heavy and very serious crime. unfortunately, human trafficking has become in recent years a highly profitable business for organised crime, which makes good profits with limited risks, which is why this phenomenon is expanding at uncontrolled speed. in this regard, the european union is moving towards preventing and combating this phenomenon by applying rules on the definition of criminal offences and penalties in the sphere of organised crime. my support for the fight against this phenomenon is an encouragement to develop targeted action against trafficking in human beings, to develop a victim-centred approach, with particular attention to women and children, and finally to organise targeted information and awareness campaigns through an education and school system in the countries of origin, transit and destination of trafficking.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate mr bauer and mr hedh on their excellent work. the text adopted today will strengthen sanctions against traffickers, give greater protection to victims and strengthen prevention. prostitution, exploitation of minors, forced labour: it is estimated that each year in europe hundreds of thousands of people are sold as objects. the eu estimates that trafficking victims are mainly women and children, exploited for prostitution (43%) or forced labour (32%). besides prostitution and forced labor, there are many other causes behind the exploitation of human beings: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, including the introduction of a new system of national registration of the names of persons who are forced to beg, illegal adoptions, organ trafficking, etc. victims will be assisted under the new rules, and in particular: adequate housing and material assistance, necessary medical care, including psychological assistance, advice and information and, if necessary, translation services. legal aid should be free of charge, at least in cases where victims lack adequate funds. victims of trafficking in human beings should also have access to witness protection programmes, if deemed necessary by the national authorities.
in writing. − in recent years, a series of very important political acts such as accession to the council of europe and the european convention on human rights have brought georgia closer to the european union than ever before. i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the eu-georgia agreement on facilitating the readmission of irregularly staying persons and the issuing of visas because i believe it is extremely important that europe should pursue a good neighbour policy with its neighbours, especially with regard to 'hot' areas such as the caucasus where the eu's own interests are reflected in an important trade partnership. moreover, reducing bureaucracy and controls in relation to a border country will only improve relations with the latter, creating the conditions for greater control of the area, thus more security, development and stability. the two agreements concluded, on the readmission of irregularly staying persons and on the facilitation of the issuance of visas, will contribute fully to achieving these objectives.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully agree with the rapporteur, mrs griesbeck, who believes that it is essential to carry out information campaigns in georgia to ensure that the population is informed of the new situation and can benefit from the new opportunities that arise. in addition, changes to visa policy should be published as soon as possible on the websites of the european institutions. i also agree with the rapporteur that she recommends that the european parliament's committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the european commission, which is responsible for monitoring the application of these agreements, identify, after they have entered into force, any obstacles or other asymmetrical restrictions which might hinder their proper application and the reciprocity of procedures, both in consular services and in border crossing.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate mr luhan on the work he has done in drawing up this report, on which i voted in favour. i am convinced that an effective cohesion policy, capable of reducing economic, social and territorial disparities, can help to increase global economic competitiveness. in this context, the regions that can best meet future challenges are becoming increasingly important, thus increasing competitiveness and projecting europe towards a solid recovery of its economy. in the light of the financial crisis, which continues to affect the whole of europe, and in view of the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy, i therefore believe that it is useful to strengthen the cohesion fund and structural policies with greater involvement of the regions. finally, cohesion policy is essential to achieving the objectives of the lisbon strategy, but to consolidate these achievements it is important to continue investing in infrastructure, which is the starting point for a revival of european economic competitiveness.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the report on territorial, social and economic cohesion is, in my view, an attempt to provide a comprehensive framework which highlights the complementary role of cohesion policy and its contribution to increasing the eu's overall competitiveness. my vote in favour of this is intended to stimulate debate in europe on the interdependent and complementary nature of measures taken at european and national level to achieve the objectives of eu policies, including that of increasing global economic competitiveness. improving the quality of life through the creation of better and safer jobs is one of the main reasons for citizens' support for the european integration process. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a welcome step towards the creation of a european health insurance system. cohesion policy can now ensure cohesive development through specific objectives and instruments that meet the economic and social needs of citizens.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the rapporteur, mr petru constantin luhan, on his excellent work and i agree with him that the need to improve the quality of life by creating safe and better jobs and guaranteeing access to all kinds of infrastructure - whether it be transport, society, education or research, development and innovation - has been the main reason for citizens' support for the process of european integration. i fully agree that cohesion policy is the key eu policy to enable regions to tackle these challenges in the best possible way and thus contribute to increasing the eu's overall economic competitiveness by ensuring a common standard of living for all eu citizens and supporting development, exploiting local and regional specificities and thus generating added value and economic productivity.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the house today voted on the own-initiative report which highlights the role of cohesion policy in reducing economic, social and territorial disparities, creating new jobs, increasing growth, building infrastructure, ensuring the cohesive development of the eu through its specific objectives and instruments, and thus meeting the economic and social needs of european citizens. cohesion policy was among the first to adopt its regional dimension, representing its added value and helping to ensure its effectiveness and sustainability. the way each member state exploits the opportunities offered by membership of the european single market depends on its maturity and level of development, which vary from country to country. it follows that it is the responsibility of each member state to indicate the most effective measures to enable its economy to function within the global system. the report proposes new directions for the future architecture of the policy, to strengthen its performance, to ensure strong sustainable growth and increased global competitiveness.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as the statements by representatives of the governments of many countries show, the extraordinary investigative speed with which assange has been dealt with is clearly aimed at punishing him and wikileaks for having told the world some unconfessable secrets, such as the concern of the american secretary of state, clinton, who asked the american embassies in rome and moscow for information on any personal investments by berlusconi and putin that might affect the foreign or economic policies of their respective countries. berlusconi is called putin's spokesman in europe. it is clear that an unprecedented punishment and harassment is being inflicted on a man and an organization whose only fault was to expose to the world's population some shadowy areas that are uncomfortable for those who govern. so we have a duty to protect the freedom of wikileaks and to ensure that assange is treated fairly, that he pays for his crimes, if found, in a fair trial. i therefore ask the commission what its position is on the wikileaks affair and how it intends to ensure that this story does not become a tool for a crackdown on freedom of information and a stumbling block for the internet, which is once again proving to be an instrument of exceptional democratic power and which must therefore be protected.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the responses to the 'assange' case and to his imprisonment because of his ideas of freedom are reminiscent of those of pontius pilate. there are three things to think about: 1. there is a fumus persecutionis because the charges are very weak; 2. the united states is pressing a european country for extradition, although it has not yet established the legal basis for this request; 3. bank accounts are closed by european banks, which means that in europe a citizen is unable to receive any financial support from his supporters. moreover, european public opinion - as all statistics show - is in favour of these principles of freedom, it wants freedom on the internet, it is in favour of freedom, despite the doubts and problems that have arisen as a result of this initiative, which i personally do not fully share. we want to know from president barroso what the limits are and what the real, effective basis is for the defence of human rights and freedom of expression. are we looking at a virtual guantanamo? are we facing the danger of a totalitarian orwellian censorship of the internet? that is the danger and that is what needs to be addressed. we must also check the conditions of assange's imprisonment because in italy even the mafia are not kept in total isolation.
the agenda includes the report by mrs elżbieta jędrzejewska and mrs helga trüpel, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, all sections, as amended by the council (17635/2010 - c7-0411/2010 - 2010/2290 ((bud)) (a7-0369/2010).
i am pleased to note that the commission has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the rules on the free movement of capital are applied in a manner that is consistent with the principles of the treaty of rome. among these improvements is certainly the provision to give the new european authority esma the possibility of directly sanctioning credit rating agencies in the event of misconduct; it was a point i insisted on very much: parliament is thus demonstrating its commitment to building a strong european supervisory structure with real powers. we are also aware that this regulation does not yet address all the problems of a sector which has been characterized in recent years by having a negative impact on the development of the crisis. the remaining problems, which are the subject of a parliamentary report by mr klinz, which is already in progress, concern two main issues: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in the field of employment. the european union must have a clear objective in these matters: we must reduce the dependence of finance on ratings! the references currently contained in the laws and regulations of credit rating agencies should be replaced by alternative standards of creditworthiness. the united states and the g20 have already moved in this direction. at international level, we must have the courage and the ambition to change the regulation on which basel ii is based, namely the imposition of the use of ratings - a mechanism which has in fact produced and is producing a total abdication of supervision by the banking sector - and the consequences are before everyone's eyes. i shall conclude with a quick reference to the question of the valuation of sovereign debt: this is no longer the responsibility of the rating agencies, which have too often exasperated market sentiment with their judgments, adding fuel to the fire of speculation! it is, however, a question of the possible role of a european institution in this field - perhaps an existing institution, such as the european court of auditors. i very much hope that my reflections will be met with the agreement of my colleagues and the attentive and authoritative support of commissioner barnier, to whom i renew my deep respect.
in writing. the european union has already put in place rules which will come into force at the end of the year. the rules for credit rating agencies wishing to operate in the eu and thus obtain a licence include the obligation to register and to comply with certain rules of transparency and 'good conduct'. i think that these rules are not strict enough and i welcome the further intervention that we are discussing in the econ committee. at present, these agencies have very strong power and with a decision they are able to put a state and/or even a system in crisis (decline of countries that can generate chain fears on international markets). their work is important as a guarantee of reliability and stability, but there are doubts about the rules and criteria underlying their assessments. the report by mr gauzès, therefore, which proposes to put them under the supervision of esma, is a step in the right direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am a little concerned about the direction the debate is taking at the moment because it seems to me that one of the great achievements of cancún was precisely the ability to discuss, to reason and to no longer be divided into two factions of catastrophists and deniers, which is perhaps the worst result of copenhagen. in copenhagen, all the great people of the world had gathered, thousands of non-governmental organizations were demonstrating, and in the ice, in the frost of copenhagen, we managed to return with over-excited and over-heated hearts, plus the disappointment of failure. in cancun under the very skilful leadership of mexico, which i think we all have seen and thanked for its ability to manage such difficult negotiations, which started at a stalemate stage we have seen instead that the multilateral process still survives. i believe, however, that we must not waste this new opportunity, which was born in cancun, to be concrete, to discuss, to no longer be football fans, because we are discussing something serious, we are discussing the future of our planet. i would therefore like to leave my thoughts to the words of an italian climatologist, who is also well known abroad. it is franco prodi, the brother of former president romano prodi, who calls for calm, concreteness and not fragmentation in fan clubs, and then states something that everyone should agree on. he says that it will be many years before we have the knowledge of climate that we have today in meteorology. we must therefore help science to accelerate its progress and to enable it to provide reliable forecasts for policy as soon as possible. meanwhile, serious environmentalism requires that the interest of safeguarding the planet's environment be placed at its center. i therefore believe that we can continue to work concretely on this subject, and i thank everyone for the way in which the work in cancun has been carried on.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the 16th climate conference in cancun has concluded, once again, with a non-binding compromise, the so-called 'balanced package'. the green climate fund is being set up, which will cost the most advanced countries $100 billion a year from 2020, while $30 billion will be allocated for fast start immediately, of which $410 million will be borne by italy. meanwhile, nothing has been imposed on the big polluters, and china alone has announced that it will double its energy production by 2020 and consequently, since it has decided to keep the 80-20 ratio between coal and other energy sources unchanged, it will double its emissions. we believe it is unacceptable to continue to ask our companies to make sacrifices for the benefit of those in third countries. it is essential that at cop17 next year, there is a globally binding agreement on the fight against climate change, which provides for sanctions for those countries which continue to refuse to cooperate.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commissioner and the entire union delegation for helping to keep the process going, but we have not solved the real problems: firstly, we must give political meaning to the bali declaration - particularly to what we have already called climate justice in parliament - and we must make the emissions trading system more general and simpler, because it is not conceivable that a market mechanism should have 50% of emissions given away for free. i would also like to stress the need to put forward the instruments for monitoring, reporting and verification, in particular the gmes constellation, the satellites which will provide data which are absolutely essential for this.
member of the commission. − again we repeat here that health care and health delivery are a competence of the member states. the commission has in fact issued its guidelines on breast screening and we have been pushing member states to abide by these guidelines and introduce breast-screening programmes into their countries as fast as possible. i can say that in most countries we do have adequate – and very good – breast-screening programmes which are bearing results; other countries, unfortunately, are still a little slow. i can assure you that, in all the contacts that we have with the member states, this is one of the priority areas that we discuss.
member of the commission. − i am strongly committed to the fight against child abuse and specifically child sexual abuse. on 29 march 2010 the commission adopted a proposal for a directive on child sexual abuse and exploitation and child pornography. this ambitious text covers prosecution of offenders, protection of victims and prevention of offences. to take account of risks brought about by technological developments, the proposal introduces in particular new criminal offences such as grooming, viewing child pornography without downloading files, online sexual abuse or advertising the possibility to abuse children, for example, through internet forums. special investigative tools should be made available, such as undercover operations for the police to infiltrate sex offender circles, and special investigative units should analyse child pornography material to identify child victims. member states should also put in place national systems to block access to internet pages containing child pornography and undertake actions to remove the content at source. we have looked carefully at the european parliament declaration of 23 june 2010, and i would be interested to know about the honourable member’s proposal for an early warning system. i have also taken note of the proposal to extend the scope of the data retention directive in order to retain data about searches made by users for child pornography material and child sex abuse content uploaded on the internet or messages used to groom children online. the data retention directive obliges communication and network service providers to retain traffic and location data and data about subscribers. it does not extend to information about content. content can be obtained and stored in the context of criminal investigations by means of the instrument known as lawful interception. lawful interception is solely governed by national law and differs across member states, but in general it can be used only if a law enforcement authority has indications that a specific criminal activity is being committed and requires further investigation. this investigative tool lies outside of the scope of the data retention directive. lawful interception occurs in the context of a criminal investigation which supposes the existence of a suspect. the data retention directive, on the contrary, obliges operators to retain certain categories of data irrespective of whether the data holders are suspect or not. extending the data retention directive to huge volumes of personal and content-related data such as internet searches for different key words in different languages, content uploaded, messages exchanged and the elements necessary to identify all users would have to withstand a necessity and proportionality case which has not yet been made. such an extension would apply to content uploaded by everyone on every platform, at any given time and on every topic. the proposal put forward by the honourable member raises serious concerns about its compliance with the principle of proportionality, even if its purpose is legitimate and deserves our full attention. the commission believes that its recent proposal for a directive would be a more suitable instrument to achieve our common objective of protecting children from child sex offenders.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall speak for just a few seconds because i am satisfied and i thank the commissioner for that. i am glad that efforts are also being made to combat the phenomenon at its root. with reference to the declaration approved on 23 june 2010, i would just like to clarify that it specifically referred to data resulting from uploading and not from downloading material from internet sites. this is because we objectively believe that the right to privacy of those who consult search engines should also be taken into account. i believe, however, that more can be done and that much more can be done, because if it is true that a citizen, with regard to the right of proportionality, has no qualms about submitting to a search before taking a flight, aware of the superiority of the protection of passengers over privacy at the time of the violation, it is also very likely that a satisfactory compromise for the protection of minors will be reached in this area too.
member of the commission. − as i said at the beginning of my speech, one of the best tools for fighting child pornography and child sex abuse is the swift adoption of the commission proposal of march 2010, the one against child sex abuse. the commission is looking forward to seeing the draft report of the european parliament and to starting trilogues. i count also on the member states and the european parliament to have a final text that will be essential to fight these crimes and i would like to draw your attention again to the principle of proportionality, which i think connects with the latest question on this matter.
member of the commission. − over the last two years the number of young unemployed people in the european union has increased by one million. there are now five million young people under the age of 25 who cannot find a job. the commission is keenly aware of the difficulties facing young people on the job market today. too many are on short-term contracts which offer slim opportunities for improvement, however well qualified the individuals might be. what is more, some groups have special difficulty in accessing jobs and staying in the labour market. they include young people from migrant backgrounds and those from ethnic minorities like the roma. at the same time, demand for highly qualified people is projected to rise by almost 16 million and demand for people with medium-level qualifications by more than 3.5 million. this represents a big employment opportunity for young people and we must make sure that young people can take full advantage of it. the europe 2020 strategy, which lays out the eu’s detailed plans for growth and jobs for the next decade, lays special emphasis on young people and sets clear targets for educational attainment. in september the commission presented a set of policy initiatives for young people called ‘youth on the move’. it sets out an agenda for improving education and employment for our young people over the next decade. the commission recently presented another flagship initiative, an ‘agenda for new skills and jobs’. the commission encourages the introduction of a youth guarantee to ensure that all young people are in a job, further education or activation measures within four months of leaving school. another point is the need to reduce labour market segmentation in line with the common flexicurity policies. we propose that member states with segmented labour markets should consider introducing open-ended contracts with a sufficiently long probation period and a gradual increase in protection rights. we also need to foster greater labour mobility and encourage innovation. two instruments that will help here are the eu job mobility scheme – ‘your first eures job’ – and the european vacancy monitor. your first eures job will promote youth labour mobility and the european vacancy monitor will allow young people and job counsellors to see where there are jobs across the union and what skills are needed. meanwhile, the european progress microfinance facility will provide support for young entrepreneurs who cannot find alternative funding to set up businesses. of course, there is no single solution to the problems facing us but we can learn a lot from each other by exchanging experience. the youth employment framework we propose gives guidance on how policymakers, stakeholders and institutions can help things along. public employment services, the social partners, employers and support services for young people at local level all have a crucial role to play. we will work to encourage more exchanges of experience and good practice among them at eu level. i firmly believe that, by pooling resources at eu level, we can help develop and promote successful policies to support young people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am satisfied with the commissioner's answer. in view of the global economic situation and the crisis which has worsened the labour market, hitting the weakest group, such as young people, i ask the commissioner to give more weight to european instruments, such as the european globalisation adjustment fund, which are needed to retrain workers made redundant because of economic crises and therefore also because of globalisation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr bendtsen's report is positive for at least four reasons: reiterates that energy efficiency is the most effective and fastest way to reduce climate-changing emissions and that a strong commitment of resources and investment in this area will produce economic growth and jobs for small and medium-sized enterprises; makes sound proposals on the financial instruments that can be used and calls on the commission to focus decisively on vocational training, access to information for small and medium-sized enterprises and the renovation of existing buildings; proposes concrete objectives, confirms the energy efficiency contract instrument, under which guaranteed energy savings are purchased, a driving force for job creation and lowering the price of electricity bills for european citizens; finally, the report will be all the more useful if it can set binding emission targets without 'if' and without 'but'. we must make the 20% target attainable, we cannot pass up this opportunity which would be an encouraging sign for europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr bendtsen, for his timely preparation of the report. the commissioner opened this sitting by saying - a statement i agree with - that when it comes to efficiency, today we are talking about the academic world. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a decision on the matter. i would add that there is no culture of saving, of energy efficiency. we are therefore in a climate and at a time when it is absolutely necessary to turn the page. what do you mean, "what"? i believe that we must first of all move towards innovation and new technologies in the two areas of energy efficiency in buildings and, above all, energy efficiency in transport. i would also like to stress the importance of adequate resources to achieve these objectives. i think we should spend to save. today in the chamber, president barroso said that eurobonds would not pass and that he had other financial instruments in store. commissioner, we have recently voted on a report which establishes a fund by using the unspent residues of previous recovery plans to finance energy efficiency as well. although it has a limited financial allocation, it is, in my view, symbolically decisive in establishing a principle which is to attract private capital in a ppp logic, by rationalising the funds we already have - cohesion funds and others - in a container capable of attracting and not giving money for free, but lending it out through the development of important projects; it should be a revolving fund that gives meaning to all this. i think this is the right way to go about finding resources and making efficiency a bit more of a taboo.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the review of the energy efficiency action plan must be carried out in a holistic manner, in a way that brings together the various european strategic guidelines. while investing in energy efficiency is crucial to helping to meet the 2020 emission reduction targets, it is also important to focus on those initiatives that will make better use of the european union's unused energy saving potential. i am pleased that a great deal of attention has been devoted to the energy efficiency of buildings, and initiatives must be taken in this regard at european level too. our companies should rethink their production processes and their products in a more efficient way. finally, it is positive that binding efficiency targets have been set, without which it will be difficult to achieve ambitious results within the union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with the energy efficiency policies that have been put in place so far by the various member states for 2020, we will not be able to achieve the 20% reduction in energy consumption target, but only 10% - a very disappointing result. if energy consumption continues to grow, the 20% renewable energy target is also at risk, as this target is calculated on the eu's final energy consumption. i am strongly in favour of a binding target also on energy efficiency to ensure that europe's climate-friendly energy policies are mutually reinforcing. unfortunately, in the face of this, the strategy of relying on the goodwill of individual member states is not a very rewarding one. the european union has a duty to set the course with clear and effective policies and objectives. let's stop investing in new plants to produce more energy, and instead put our money and effort into the cleanest energy in the world, the one we can avoid using! finally, i would ask you to support amendment no 2 which calls on the commission to launch an initiative in 2011 for the energy efficiency of existing buildings.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, energy efficiency is the keyword for the economy of the future, but it must not be imposed, it must be encouraged: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the efficiency of the community's energy supply. we cannot think of forcing private actors to invest without being convinced or favoured: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is a good one. binding objectives only lead to unnecessary and often ineffective expenditure. it is better to convince citizens, institutions and bodies that saving in this area also means saving in safety and quality of life.
in writing. mr president, the energy efficiency action plan is not a competition, where you set the bar and the constraints, but the beginning of a cultural path, a key objective of european policy designed to influence the behaviour of individuals and businesses. it is a path that is facilitated not by rigid constraints that generate costs that are difficult to sustain for both citizens and businesses, but by concrete incentives and that is concretized by energy infrastructure, changing urban development, products, packaging and transport. i would remind you that energy efficiency is considered the most cost-effective method of managing greenhouse gas and other emissions from energy production. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. i therefore believe that it is essential not only to focus investment in this area but also to ensure that the european instruments available are effectively implemented and strengthened.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating and thanking mr weisgerber for the in-depth work he has done on a complex and complex proposal which has been the subject of a long debate. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the amendments to the proposal for a directive. this decision is certainly an important step in the field of simplification and smart regulation. better regulation must become an increasingly important objective for the community institutions, and the commission fully agrees with the wish to focus on ever better regulation at community level. the proposal, as the rapporteur has pointed out, will repeal eight obsolete directives covering six categories of legal metrology instruments, on the grounds that the instruments covered by the directive are now obsolete and that trade in them is declining. in addition, there are no barriers to trade in substitute products, which are technically more advanced and fall outside the scope of the directives. in the future, member states may wish to have national rules, but this will not create new barriers to trade as there are already international rules which fully cover these old instruments, as well as the majority of the more advanced substitute products. the world trade organisation agreement on technical barriers to trade requires member states to base their legislation on these international standards. the treaty on european union also requires member states to recognise each other's equivalent products legally marketed in another member state. the commission therefore welcomes the compromise at first reading between parliament and the council, which provides for the repeal of one directive by july 2011 and the other seven directives by december 2015. finally, the commission reiterates the joint statement of the three institutions and declares its willingness to re-examine the arguments in favour of harmonisation put forward during the legislative process. as indicated, we will report on these issues by the end of april next year and, if appropriate, submit the legislative proposal in accordance with the principles of smart legislation.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully support the position expressed by the rapporteur on the commission proposal to repeal eight directives in the field of metrology. in particular, i welcome the proposal on whether member states should be given sufficient time to assess the possible consequences of repeal in the context of the review of the mid directive on measuring instruments. while i share the general objectives of better regulation and simplification, which are also promoted by the lisbon strategy, i believe it is absolutely important to give the member states the time they need to ensure that the repeal of the repealed directives does not lead to legal uncertainty. this would help to allay the concerns expressed by the various member states that they would not have a reasonable time to deal with the regulatory vacuum that would result from repeal. this is a good compromise between the commission's position, which is in favour of abrogating the directives outright and opposed to new regulation of the matter in the framework of the mid directive, and the critical positions initially adopted by the member states in relation to this proposal.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we support the report on metrology. it is a very technical text which has been awaiting a vote in plenary for months. the report, which was not opposed by the committee responsible, was rejected last march and dragged on for so long because of the need to reach agreement in the council among the 27 member states on the correlation tables. the real problem is that the european commission has not yet put forward the proposal for a directive on measuring instruments, which should replace the obsolete ones we are now deleting and regulate the matter once and for all. i would like to criticise the commission for having decided to scrap the obsolete directives without having already submitted the proposal for a revision of the measuring instruments directive at the same time. this behaviour is unjustifiable and far from the needs of businesses and citizens. at the same time, i would like to criticise the excessive fears of those who believe that the law of the member states is not able to take over during the vacatio. fortunately, european companies have a system of international rules in this area which goes beyond the union's rules. so the fears of catastrophes in the vacuum of the directive are unfounded. the companies are filling in the gaps of the legislators with their own trade organizations, with their own skills, with the rules they have set themselves to create a dynamic and balanced market. let us remember our companies which are still operating in our territory with great difficulty. we must not continue to squeeze them with taxes, bureaucracy and absurd demands. sometimes parliament's work proceeds in a hurry. common sense and the desire to reach agreements with the other european institutions go beyond political divisions.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, never has the debate in plenary on the safety of toys in the european union been more timely this year, especially in the light of recent events in which countries such as belgium have withdrawn several models of puzzle carpet from the market because of a concentration of formamide, a chemical classified as carcinogenic, mutagenic and toxic to reproduction, in doses considered dangerous to children's health; the commission has also been asked to provide information on the situation in the community, and to provide information on the situation in the member states. we are waiting for the national authorities to notify us of the measures taken and will then immediately evaluate the data provided through our scientific committees. if these checks confirm, on the basis of scientific data, that such a concentration of formamide does indeed represent a risk to the health of children, we will take all the necessary measures to amend the provisions of the directive to that effect by means of comitology measures. the directive - and i want to reassure mr harbour - provides for this mechanism, which allows it to be constantly updated in the light of new scientific data. the commission, for example, has already made such changes for certain chemicals - as mr weisgerber has mentioned - such as lead and cadmium, so that their values are in line with the latest scientific information. these amendments will be examined under the regulatory procedure with scrutiny and parliament will therefore be fully associated with this work. but beyond the mechanisms provided for by the comitology procedure - and i am addressing myself to mr rühle - i am personally committed to keeping you constantly informed of the progress of work on these two substances. as regards the other specific issues at the heart of the question, i would start with the scientific committee on health and environmental risks, which refers to a study carried out by the joint research centre to evaluate the method used in laboratories to detect traces of heavy metals such as lead in toys. these analyses shall be carried out in accordance with en71-3. according to the study, 40 laboratories participated in the evaluation, 15 of which are bodies notified by the member states as being competent to assess the conformity of toys within the meaning of the directive. only 3 out of 40 laboratories misinterpreted the test results. the results of these studies were communicated by the commission to the member states which had notified the names of the laboratories and to the laboratories themselves, inviting them to take appropriate measures. the study was also submitted to the european committee for standardisation for consideration in the ongoing revision of en71-3, which aims to establish a new standard by the deadline for the application of the new provisions on chemicals, i.e. 2013. as regards the new toy directive, adopted in may 2009, it is based on a new legislative framework for the marketing of products and provides for increased market surveillance. member states are required to put in place the necessary tools to ensure that only safe products are available to the european consumer. this obligation concerns both the strengthening of border controls and the efficiency of the inspection services in monitoring products already on the european market. finally, if member states find irregularities in toys, it is important that they immediately notify other countries of this information through rapex, the community's rapid alert and information system. mr harbour, the commission is cooperating closely with the chinese authorities, particularly with regard to the safety of toys. european and chinese experts in the field meet regularly to exchange information on applicable legislation and rules and administrative practices. the personnel of the chinese authorities responsible for controls are trained to improve product quality controls. as regards the limits on chemicals, mr buşoi, it is true that a method based on migration is scientifically preferable, since it is based on the real risk to which the child is exposed. but setting migration limits involves assessing risk and exposure to risk and also admitting the existence of permissible daily intakes for calculating those limits. since there are a considerable number of chemicals over a thousand and not enough information is available on all of them, this method is impossible to implement at the present stage of scientific knowledge. that said, the directive already provides for migration-based limits for certain chemicals for which scientific data are available and allows, again thanks to comitology, the possibility of introducing migration-based limits in the future in the event that additional scientific data are available for other new substances. mr rühle, as regards compounds, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, these substances can be found in various consumer articles and not only in toys. as a result, the possibility of taking specific measures is currently being tested under the wider reach regulation, and this method seems to be the most consistent and effective. toys intended for children under three years of age are subject to stricter rules. children under this age are more vulnerable and need more protection. in case of doubt as to the age for which a toy is intended, the manufacturer must apply the strictest standards. however, it does not seem justified to subject all toys to the same restrictions as those intended for younger children. the risk exposure and the use made of it are not the same. in addition, it would lead to the outright ban of certain categories of toys intended for older children and for which no risks or accidents have been recorded. this approach would be disproportionate and would be contrary to the objective of better lawmaking. the new directive also prohibits the use of substances classified as cmrs, but it was decided in this very house that a total ban without any possibility of derogation would be neither justifiable nor realistic. but if the substance does not present a health risk, for example because it is inaccessible, it cannot be banned. the assessment shall be made on a case-by-case basis on the basis of the scientific information available for each substance. more stringent limits may be adopted through comitology to ensure an adequate level of safety. the commission will not fail to propose this whenever a real risk and precise data make it appropriate. as you know, the new directive will apply to economic operators from july next year. the obligations for chemicals will apply from july 2013. the commission considers that the implementation of the new rules by all those concerned - member states and economic operators - and the incorporation of the necessary adaptations to scientific developments are a priority. in particular, member states have already met twice to discuss changes to certain chemical obligations, in october 2009 and in september this year. a further meeting is planned for april next year to conclude the work. a group of chemical experts was also set up to guide the commission and met last november with good results in defining the issues to be addressed and the options to be suggested. another meeting is scheduled for january 2011. mr harbour, on the subject of market surveillance, i will be brief in my reply to give you the answers you have requested.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the directive on the safety of toys has been a major step forward in the protection of children up to the age of 14. it lays down the essential requirements which toys must satisfy at the time of their manufacture and before being placed on the market. the european standardisation bodies have developed harmonised european rules on the basis of essential requirements: the conformity assessment of toys is guaranteed by the ce marking, which represents a high level of assurance of safety in relation to international standards. i am of course confident that in time the use of the microchip will be achieved as a substitute for the ce marking. i also personally believe that the european union is constantly working to update safety tests, making them more and more compatible with new technologies. let me express my perplexity at having to discuss, just in time for christmas, a study which mentions a non-compliance of the migration limit test for toy chemicals. we should not create false alarms by disguising them as the legitimate need for continuous updating of control systems, because they could also harm the many european companies operating in the toy sector by complying with all the regulations in force and at a crucial time for their production. it is also worth remembering that improving legislation always goes hand in hand with improving its implementation. while our work here in the european parliament will always continue in the direction of raising the quality of toys, my wish for the new year is that non-european countries will take our standards as an example to improve the quality of their products at international level.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, following the revelations in the new york times, the secret club of nine banks - one european - whose executives meet every wednesday to agree on the operations on derivatives is being investigated in the usa. the crisis committee was unaware of this, europe is watching. the fed had to give details on the $13 trillion bank bailout. can you tell us what the fed has asked for the european bank bailouts? is it the critical situation of the banks - and not the public budgets - that should require the doubling of the european bailout fund and the preparation of a 2,000 billion parachute? what do you expect to demand from the ecb a transparency report, as was done in the united states for the fed, with all the details? this would help to dispel suspicions that he has acted and is acting in a discretionary manner and not in the common interest of the peoples and taxpayers of the member states of the european union. why is there no discussion about taking measures to really and effectively separate commercial banks from speculative banks, as in the glass-steagall act? (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we all agree on the need to create a tool capable of intervening in the event of a crisis. this instrument must necessarily be linked to rigorous and careful budgetary policies on the part of the states. i hope that in this way we will not have a repeat of the crisis we have been experiencing in recent months. the debate today revolves around the best way to finance this instrument. as we all know, the private sector has had a share of responsibility in the crisis in some countries and in such cases it is right that it should take responsibility, but any participation must be assessed on a case-by-case basis. i believe, however, that new and innovative instruments must be found to finance the anti-crisis instrument. an example could be given by the eurobonds, which some see as a new burden on national budgets. but that is not the case, quite the contrary, with the issue of eurobonds, the anti-crisis instrument would be financed on the market by drawing on foreign capital and those who want to invest. a mechanism based solely on the contribution per quota in the form of a mere provisioning of reserves would impose a heavy burden on the states, which would have to find means and capital to be deposited without, however, bringing any return or return. in a situation like the present, where on the one hand we are asking the states to implement strict budgetary policies to reduce deficits and debt and on the other hand we are asking for contributions to the anti-crisis fund, there is a real risk of collapse. there can be no revival of the european economy if at the same time the strength of the euro on international markets and the growth of creditworthiness induced by its recovery are not used.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in a democracy, procedure is substance and therefore the implementation of the citizens' initiative was not a mere technical exercise but required crucial choices, on which the possibility of making the citizens' initiative a tool actually capable of contributing to the building of a genuine european political area would depend. parliament has undoubtedly exercised its prerogatives in an exemplary manner, considerably improving the original proposal. the main results have already been mentioned and i do not need to repeat them. i would like to emphasize one more, to which our group has made a special contribution: the european political parties will also be able to promote a citizens' initiative, and this is a very important achievement because it is concerned with the fate of european democracy, because there will be no true transnational democracy until european political parties take an effective role in the democratic process. today we are taking a step in that direction and it is also a good day for european democracy.
madam president, commissioner šefčovič, mr president chastel, i thank all the rapporteurs for the timeliness of their work and the high level of compromise reached. as chairman of the committee on petitions, i would like to thank in particular mr wallis and mr häfner, and the shadow rapporteurs who, in a team of many, have been able to capture all the sensitivities that have emerged in the debate on the committee on petitions. i believe that we worked with full awareness of the high task we were carrying out. the popular initiative is a significant milestone in the process of building a europe of the people, a democratic europe and a europe with real participation. the committee on petitions has worked with this in mind, in cooperation with the committee on constitutional affairs, and in accordance with the procedure laid down in rule 50. as many colleagues and rapporteurs have said, the aim was to make the procedure as user-friendly, as inexpensive, as transparent and as effective as possible. we have worked to impose obligations on the commission and to limit its scope for assessment within the eligibility criteria we have introduced. i would like to reassure my colleagues who have spoken of legitimate and understandable concerns, which we have addressed in the course of the debate and to many of which we have tried to give answers. finally, because of the particular proximity of this subject, i would like to stress the importance of introducing a public hearing of the representatives of the popular initiative, which will be held by the commission together with the european parliament. as chairman of the committee on petitions, i am pleased that, thanks to an agreement between the parties concerned, this task within parliament should be entrusted to the committee i chair.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i rise as chairman of the committee on constitutional affairs above all to thank all the members of my committee who have done a good job, and in particular mr lamassoure and mr gurmai, who have done a great job in achieving the objective of implementing one of the most important innovations of the lisbon treaty. the committee also heard the views of all the national parliaments and experts, working closely with the commission - for which i warmly thank commissioner šefčovič - and with an openness to dialogue on the part of the council, for which i thank president chastel. the application of rule 50 of our rules of procedure has also worked well, enabling us to work effectively with the committee on petitions. i personally supported the need for a one-year deadline for the entry into force of the regulation, not to delay its application but, on the contrary, to allow the first start to be complete and serious, so that all the states, without exception, can comply with the necessary preparation of the instruments of participation and verification. i believe that the greatest positive effect of the new institution will be to increase the awareness of european citizens, who will now be enriched by the power to participate, even in the form of incentives, in the legislative process. i am also sure that the mechanisms provided for will ensure that citizens can easily participate and that abuses are avoided. in conclusion, i believe that the adoption of this regulation, just a few days before christmas, is a good gift for the citizens of europe and for europe itself.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, until the treaty of lisbon, the european union was not open to the demands of its citizens, either because two of its main bodies - the commission and the council - are appointed and not elected, like parliament, or because there was no provision for popular participation. with the entry into force of the new treaty, european citizens can, by collecting an appropriate number of signatures, put forward proposals on their own initiative. we are quite in favour of the regulation because it improves the commission's original text. the procedure for the admissibility of a proposal is combined with the procedure for registration and, subsequently, the collection and verification of signatures. unfortunately, the report is lacking in the absence of a mechanism to verify the authenticity of the signatures. this could lead to the submission of false signatures and thus undermine the democratic popular value of the initiative.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we support the measure and we thank the rapporteur for his timeliness. we believe that this work must, however, require the european institutions to continue to monitor developments in this new discipline in the future, because unfortunately, too many times in the past, unclear situations have occurred, which have had a negative impact on the financial system to the detriment of companies and savers. a new european system for agencies and control of all central bank authorities, so that ratings are, respond effectively to the modern financial system and useful to citizens is extremely important to us. i thank the rapporteur for that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's vote on the 2011 budget marks the end of a new procedure, which has been difficult, but which has shown the budgetary authorities' responsibility and practical ability. this is a compromise solution which has involved concessions from both parliament and the council, but which has prevented a system of twelfths which would have had serious consequences for the financing of community programmes. this parliament is satisfied with the objectives achieved. however, he points the finger at those who have failed the agreement on the iter programme and flexibility. the union is losing credibility with its international partners, risking not being able to finance its commitments and meet the new areas of action resulting from lisbon. from january 2011, priorities must therefore be set and made financially sustainable for the years ahead.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the need to modernise measurement systems while improving regulation leads to the repeal of european directives on metrology. i too am convinced that this is the first step towards a more radical and timely reform of this area. there is also no doubt that there is a need to allow sufficient time for all member states to assess the effects of repealing these regulations on their legislation and to make any corrective measures. finally, the choice of repealing the various directives responds perfectly to the need for greater simplification, which is particularly felt in all sectors. let us hope, however, that the cure is not worse than the disease.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the treaty of lisbon introduced a fundamental innovation in the democratic functioning of the union by providing for this new concrete instrument for civil participation in the debate and in the construction of europe. the european citizens' initiative introduces a new concept of transnational democracy and brings a new form of participatory democracy to the european union. all our citizens will be able to turn directly to the european commission to present a legislative act. we welcome the commission's proposal, as involving civil society and policy-making in decision-making strengthens the democratic legitimacy of our institutions and brings the european union closer to its citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have followed the legislative procedure for the european people's initiative very closely and i am pleased, also on the basis of the statements by the council and the commission, that the first collections of signatures will be launched in a year's time. i am also proud to be able to announce to the european parliament that in italy, following the adoption of the scandalous directive on animal testing, a cross-cutting movement of citizens, associations and committees has been born which will not wait this year but will work to prepare a proposal for the commission. a proposal to give the european union modern and civil legislation which states 'no' to animal testing, a bloody and scientifically ineffective practice, and gives a strong impetus to alternative methods. the 'no' to vivisection must be an objective of the european union as much as it is a wish of the citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the new institutional architecture envisaged by the treaty of lisbon underlines that effective protection and promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms are the basis of democracy and the rule of law itself in the european union. i have supported this report because i am convinced that the union needs a new definition of internal human rights policies which is effective and organic, capable of providing for effective accountability mechanisms, both at national and union level, to deal with the many violations we see on a daily basis. we would like to stress that the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon has radically changed the legal face of the european union. the charter of fundamental rights today has the same legal value as the treaties and represents the most modern codification of fundamental rights, offering a good balance between rights and solidarity, including civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights, as well as third generation rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have decided to vote in favour of this report not only because my political group has decided to do so, but also because i am absolutely convinced that this report is of great institutional importance and is necessary at a time when the powers of parliament are defined but are gradually being structured. as a first time we are approving the budget under the lisbon treaty, we have clearly wanted to attach considerable importance to this event. it was therefore necessary to establish a common position on the part of all the members and hence the rapporteur's effort to find compromise amendments, in order to avoid divisions which would only push a definitive line on the application of the lisbon treaty further away. i therefore thank mr gal for his work and hope that this report will lead to a joint improvement in the activities of the european institutions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that the italian government's activities are in constant violation of the charter of fundamental rights. just think of the italy-libya agreement, which manages to violate dozens of articles of the charter, or the bill-throat that wanted to put the leash on the press and the judiciary. we are talking about a government supported by a parliament elected in an undemocratic way, without the possibility for the citizens to express a preference, a government which yesterday won the confidence of parliamentarians from the opposition parties, the same ones who had publicly denounced that they had been approached with promises of re-election and money in exchange for the vote. (the president cut off the speaker) the evidence of corruption is in the facts. nothing new in the house of the corrupt berlusconi, as the final sentences mondadori and mills prove. (the sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9 p.m.) on 9 december, the european parliament celebrated the day against corruption. yesterday the italian parliament launched the first day in favour of the legalization of the corruption of members.
on 9 december, the european parliament celebrated the day against corruption. yesterday the italian parliament launched the first day in favour of the legalization of the corruption of members.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i apologize for the foregoing, but as an italian i cannot tolerate a certain kind of attitude. i am tired of mr alfano continuing to use minutes of the explanation of vote to tell lies, to distort the facts about what is happening in italy. the vote of confidence in the italian parliament was held yesterday, with a single vote and in absolute democracy. i therefore withdraw my statement of vote saying that i voted for the juvin report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too am convinced of the important role that advertising can play in stimulating competition, in promoting competitiveness between firms and in diversifying the offer to consumers. however, europe must be able to regulate a sector in stricter terms, otherwise it risks becoming more and more invasive, especially as a result of the use of new technologies. increasingly, consumers are providing sensitive data without being aware of the effects. i therefore welcome the report by mr juvin, also because it focuses on the most vulnerable groups, such as children, who are unable to assess the commercial offers resulting from increasingly aggressive advertising.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the european union cannot afford to back down in the energy challenge that will decide the fate of the planet. the myth that the economic development of a country is closely linked to an increase in energy consumption must be dispelled. europe must pioneer a new sustainable economic model based on less resource use, including energy, and greater productivity. economic growth must therefore be based on an increase in energy services that create jobs and energy efficiency, rather than on an increase in the amount of energy sold to industry and citizens. for these reasons, i believe that energy efficiency is the priority path for the future of the eu, both economically and environmentally, and i hope that the commission will immediately take the necessary steps to achieve the binding targets set by parliament today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am of course applauding, and i also take this opportunity to refer to the rules of procedure. mr president, will you also take action against those colleagues who - god bless them - use their time to offend the governments of their own countries? there was a colleague who, in your presence, has just offended the italian government which yesterday had the confidence of the italian parliament, as well as the confidence of the italian citizens. this may not please the colleague in question, but it is his problem, which he can solve with his friends. so this colleague has taken advantage of his time here to insult the government of his country, which is also mine, instead of giving his explanation of vote. mr president, i ask you whether you intend to tolerate these things despite the rules of procedure, because if so i am now joining all the forthcoming votes to speak in favour of the government which legitimately, with the consent of the country and of parliament, leads italy.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the böge report on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument in favour of the lifelong learning programme, the competitiveness and innovation programme and palestine should undoubtedly be assessed positively by parliament. i agree with the need for and the consequent allocation of some additional resources, beyond the ceilings of heading 1 and 4. in view of the current economic situation, this is a vital expenditure in many respects, both to combat the crisis and to maintain our international credibility.
in writing. − the european commission has put forward a proposal to mobilise the flexibility instrument in the context of the new budgetary 'manoeuvre' for 2011, following the failure of the conciliation. i voted in favour mainly because the increase concerns two programmes such as the lifelong learning and competitiveness and innovation (cip) programmes which deserve the most support and the most resources from the eu. the flexibility instrument is provided for in the interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline and allows, subject to agreement by the two arms of the budgetary authority (european parliament and council), the financing, in addition to the ceilings of the financial perspective, of needs not foreseen at the time of the establishment of the multiannual financial framework, up to a maximum amount of eur 200 000 000 per year. the ep has also adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia.
in writing. i support the vote of the european parliament on wednesday 15 december 2010, which adopted the 2011 budget at its plenary session in strasbourg following a debate on tuesday. the budget adopted includes increased funding for most of the priorities defined by parliament, while respecting the overall limits set by the council. in the course of this year's budget negotiations, my colleagues in the european parliament also reached agreements with the council and the commission on a number of political demands concerning the budget.
in writing. − the draft amended budget by the european council does not fully reflect the needs and demands outlined by parliament, but we cannot leave the european union in the first months of 2011 without an approved budget; the commission, council and parliament therefore found the right compromise in the trilogue of 6 december for a budget which can be fully implemented from the beginning of the financial year 2011. my vote in favour reflects a line of responsibility consistent with parliament's commitment to give the union's citizens the appropriate financial resources, as confirmed by the adoption of the joint declaration on payment appropriations.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully agree with the rapporteur, mrs barbara matera, that it is a matter of satisfaction to note that the commission is following up the many requests made in the past by the european parliament by identifying alternative sources of payment appropriations other than unused esf funds. i also agree with the rapporteur that the choice made in the last cases examined (i.e. the budget line for supporting entrepreneurship and innovation) is not satisfactory, given the serious shortcomings the commission is facing in implementing competitiveness and innovation programmes. in a period of economic crisis, these appropriations should rather be increased. the rapporteur therefore calls on the commission to continue its efforts to identify more appropriate budget lines for payments in the future.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the need to establish a clear and comprehensive legal framework on the law applicable to divorce and legal separation arises from the urgent need to deal with the problems arising in the case of 'international' divorces. the disparity in national rules has so far not helped to safeguard equal opportunities between spouses or the best interests of the children involved, but has, on the contrary, contributed to the so-called 'race to the courts'. as the european parliament's ombudsman for children between parents of different nationalities and on the basis of the experience gained in the course of his work, i support this proposal for a regulation which aims to create legal certainty for the couples concerned and at the same time to ensure transparency and flexibility. among the innovative proposals in the text of the regulation is the possibility of consulting a family mediator before, during and after divorce proceedings, not only because this is a very helpful figure in informing the spouses about the different forms and conditions of divorce and in resolving any differences between them, but also because it protects the rights of the children involved, helping the parents to make appropriate and friendly choices to protect the welfare of the offspring.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate mr zwiefka on the preparation of this report, which i have seen with favour. the aim of this measure is to establish a clear and comprehensive legal framework on the legislative matters of divorce and legal separation, introducing a certain degree of autonomy between the parties. the diversity of these rules in the member states may create problems in the case of 'international' divorces. in fact, in addition to the legal uncertainty about identifying the rules that will apply on a case-by-case basis, there may be a so-called "race to the courts" to adopt legislation that best protects one of the spouses. it is therefore necessary for the european union to limit those risks and shortcomings by introducing the possibility for the parties to choose by common agreement the applicable law. i therefore share the need to ensure that the parties are given correct and accurate information as soon as possible so that they are aware of their choices.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report because i believe that we need a clear and comprehensive legal framework on the law applicable to divorce and legal separation. for the first time, the introduction of article 3a gives the spouses the possibility of designating by common accord the law applicable to the divorce proceedings. i also believe that we should ensure that the choice made by the parties is informed, that is to say that both spouses have been duly informed of the practical consequences of their choice. in this respect, the information should be accurate and complete. i think it is important to protect the relationship between the couple so that the moment of separation can be made clear, transparent and consensual by both parties, who thus become decision-makers with equal authority.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, one of the european union's priority objectives is to safeguard and develop an area of freedom, security and justice in which the free movement of persons is guaranteed. in the case of divorce or legal separation in the context of binational marriages, the legal basis at european level is currently as fluid as ever as regards the question of the applicable law. for this reason, there is often a "courtship" in which a spouse begins by seeking a separation and thus ensures that the proceedings will be conducted in a legal system that best protects his or her own interests first. the aim of the proposed regulation is to create legal certainty for the couples concerned, while ensuring transparency and flexibility. i cannot therefore disagree with the rapporteur, mr tadeusz zwiefka, who supports the content of the regulation of the law applicable to divorce and legal separation.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the global financial crisis has shown the need to set up a mechanism to regulate and supervise the credit rating agencies, which are partly responsible for the crisis. to this end, regulation (ec) no 1060/2009 on credit rating agencies was adopted in 2009. that regulation has enabled the establishment at european level of a system for the registration and supervision of credit rating agencies that publish credit ratings in use in the european union. it also lays down the conditions for the use in the european union of credit ratings issued by third-country agencies, applying a dual system of credit rating equivalence and endorsement. i therefore vote in favour of the rapporteur, mr jean-paul gauzes, who proposes that the focus be on the introduction of esma into the system of supervision of agencies and the definition of its new tasks and powers. it is essential that esma is able to exercise its powers from the outset to ensure effective supervision of credit rating agencies operating in the european union as well as of third-country credit rating agencies authorised to issue credit ratings in the eu.
in writing. - repealing european directives is essentially leaving a regulatory vacuum in the community system, but modernising a system such as the metrology directives is certainly a step towards a wider and more modern common system. that is why i voted in favour of the report which repeals the eight council directives on metrology. the principle shared by the council and the commission is, however, a delicate balance because each member state will have to rely on the mutual recognition of national legislation, avoiding creating problems for industry which relies on metrology provisions, until the revision of the measuring instruments directive which will harmonise the legislation on metrology at european level is approved.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with the rapporteur, mrs anja weisgerber, who welcomes the general objective of improving regulation. however, with regard to the proposal under consideration it is not clear which is the best option. in its impact assessment, the commission concludes that the examination of the various options for the eight directives in the field of metrology (abrogation tout court, repeal subject to certain conditions, no action) does not reveal a 'preferred option'. however, in order to improve regulation, the commission prefers the abrogation of all directives (and relies on the mutual recognition of national legislation) to harmonization (i.e. new regulation of the matter under the measuring instruments directive). i would like to reiterate, and i agree with the rapporteur, that she believes that more time should be given to the member states to assess whether the repeal of the directives will lead to a situation of legal uncertainty which will require harmonisation of the rules at european level.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the report by mr lamassoure and mr gurmai on the citizens' initiative. the basic rules for the operation of the european people's initiative, as provided for in the treaty of lisbon, were approved and even facilitated by this vote. a 'citizens' committee' composed of people from at least seven member states will be able to register an initiative and start collecting the necessary one million signatures, on paper or online, after the commission's eligibility check. it is an example of participatory democracy with very positive potential, where citizens are involved in the first place and join our work in a sense. the joint work of the two co-rapporteurs has shown that good work and the interests of citizens can overcome ideological divisions; the epp group is always proactive, open to dialogue and cooperation, but at the same time anchored in solid and indispensable values.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european citizens' legislative initiative is a fundamental element in the process of building a europe based on the rights of its citizens. strict eligibility criteria, accessible and simplified procedures and the representativeness of the member states are the key elements of an instrument which restores the primacy of the value of democratic participation. in line with the union's values, the lisbon treaty gives at least one million citizens representing at least one quarter of the member states a genuine opportunity to have a real say in shaping the rules in line with the expectations of the european people. we hope that this instrument will give a boost to the prerogatives of the citizen and that we can soon reach a moment of positive verification of the results obtained and, where necessary, the necessary corrections in the interest of the citizen, to ensure further flexibility and agility to this truly innovative project. to integrate the union based on the euro with the union based on the right to citizenship of the european people.
in writing. - the text in question fully meets my expectations, particularly on three points. firstly, the minimum age for supporting a legislative initiative has been set at 18 (the minimum age for voting in the ep elections), in line with the rules for participation in direct democracy instruments such as the referendum. secondly, the need to require identity documents from resident european citizens who wish to sign declarations of support, in order to be able to carry out the checks provided for in the regulation in compliance with the legislation in force. finally, there is the need to provide for a period of 12 months for the application of the regulation after its entry into force, in order to enable the competent national administrations - many of which are faced with such an instrument for the first time - to prepare all the necessary legislative, administrative and financial measures.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support the initiative of the rapporteurs, mr gurmai and mr lamassoure, that the organisers of the european citizens' initiative should meet in a citizens' committee composed of representatives from different member states. this will ensure that the issues identified are truly european and will also have the advantage of facilitating the collection of signatures from the very beginning. i share the rapporteur's view that the european citizens' initiative is a new instrument of participatory democracy on a continental scale. as a result, this regulation may not be perfect and practice may present new challenges for european policy-makers. i therefore agree with the rapporteurs that the commission should report every three years on the implementation of the regulation and, if necessary, propose a revision.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report on the european citizens' initiative was voted on in plenary today. this initiative was introduced by the treaty of lisbon in article 11 with the aim of giving citizens the same powers of political initiative as those already enjoyed by the council of ministers and the european parliament. the ice is a new instrument of participatory democracy on a continental scale. on 31 march 2010, the commission presented its proposal for a regulation and on 14 june 2010 the council adopted the general approach on ice. the european parliament's committee on constitutional affairs adopted its report in november, where a negotiating mandate was foreseen. the trilogue of 30 november reached agreement on a number of amendments. the main points of the agreement concern the merging of registration and admissibility, the number of signatures to be received from at least one quarter of the member states, the creation of a citizens' committee; minimum age to support the initiative; the online collection system.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's vote is the first example of democratic participation in europe. the european people's initiative is one of the most innovative provisions of the lisbon treaty, a first step towards direct democracy. the initiative is a tool that allows citizens, with the submission of one million signatures, 0.2% of the union's population, to propose to the european commission to submit a legislative proposal on any issue they consider to be of interest to them. environmental and social issues and disasters caused by the financial crisis are among the most sensitive issues that can mobilise citizens to ask the eu to legislate on these issues.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's work programme for 2011 calls for a further community spirit and greater courage in tackling the eu's main political and institutional issues, especially in the light of and in line with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. the issues to be addressed include: 1. greater respect for the role of the european parliament in formulating proposals, taking due account of the positions it has adopted in its own-initiative opinions and proposals; 2. closer and more balanced interinstitutional cooperation both on budgetary matters and on the financial perspective; 3. greater courage in formulating proposals for the efficient use of community resources which will enable binding objectives and concrete benchmarks to be achieved; 4. effective and efficient community governance of the economy and finance, and financial participation by workers in the success of the enterprise, which allow for more widespread, balanced and participatory economic and social development. although the commission's 2011 programme contains only part of the above-mentioned calls, i still believe it is necessary to support it.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i regret the presence of the president of zimbabwe, mr mugabe, at the tripoli summit on 30 november and the absence of a number of european heads of state or government. i also know that the new us "war minerals" law is a huge step forward in combating the illegal exploitation of minerals in africa. i therefore call on the commission and the council to come forward with similar proposals to ensure the traceability of imported minerals on the eu market and on the african union to cooperate in the field of sustainable exploitation of raw materials.
in writing. − the basis of democracy and of any rule of law is the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. with the adoption of the lisbon treaty last year, the charter of fundamental rights of the european union has become legally binding, outlining a new european legal framework in which the universal values expressed in the charter finally become concrete rights. i voted in favour of the gál report precisely because it approves the effective application of fundamental rights in the european union after lisbon. this is not only an internal step of the eu, but also an external position for the safeguarding and protection of human rights, for the promotion of peace and for the welfare of citizens, in a climate where the law guarantees serenity, security and justice.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report on the effect of advertising on consumer behaviour. in view of the influence of advertising on consumers and the economy, action is urgently needed to prevent certain unfair advertising practices from influencing and shaping commercial choices. the spread of new communication systems, such as the internet, requires even more attention to consumers and in particular to the most vulnerable segments of society, such as children and adolescents. our task is to counter the spread of false and misleading information but, above all, certain practices, such as spam in emails, which invade the privacy of users and their privacy. i agree with the rapporteur when he asks that action be concentrated on the suppression of misrepresentation through the extension of the existing directive. in this sense, i believe that the measure voted on today strikes the right balance between freedom of expression and consumer protection.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the evolution of the media and the development of the internet have contributed to the spread of forms of hidden advertising messages and unfair advertising practices that often invade the private sphere of consumers. it is essential to reflect carefully on the consequences this may have on the most vulnerable groups who must be protected from harmful and uncontrolled advertising. we must not forget that advertising sometimes conveys social stereotypes linked, for example, to an uninhibited conception of sexuality and violence or inappropriate messages that can adversely affect the behaviour of children and adolescents who are susceptible to influence and who do not yet have the necessary critical attitude. it is therefore necessary to update the existing legislation in this area and to ensure better implementation and interpretation of the unfair commercial practices directive. finally, i would like to stress that it is essential that consumers are properly informed about the use and processing of the data collected, especially if they are asked to provide the data in exchange for price reductions and other promotional offers. to this end, it would be useful to promote effective information campaigns on consumer rights in this area and thus try to compensate for the lack of knowledge of the problems related to the use of personal data.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the impact of advertising on consumers is often enormous and can lead to unfair commercial practices. my decision to vote in favour of the report is a consequence of the use made of advertising in the market. it is a tool for the internal market, a lubricant for economic activities and consumers, but above all it is an important economic sector. of course, the negative aspects of advertising must also be considered: unfair practices, encroachment on public and private space, influencing the most vulnerable people, creation of potential barriers to market entry, distortion of the internal market. it is therefore important to strengthen european cooperation in the fight against unfair practices in advertising through a process of co-regulation which can improve the effectiveness and applicability of measures. i also believe that it is essential to protect the most vulnerable groups and to strengthen education and information by increasing the transparency of advertising. it would be highly appropriate to launch information campaigns on consumer rights through the use of educational tools.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i share the rapporteur, mr philippe juvin, in his view that it is important to strengthen european cooperation in the fight against unfair practices in online advertising, as demonstrated by the success of the so-called 'sweep' (systematic and simultaneous checks of internet sites by member states), which are currently limited to three areas: airline tickets, ringtones for mobile phones and electronic devices. i agree with the rapporteur that we should broaden the scope and regularity of the regulation and encourage co-regulation, which brings together the various parties concerned with legislative developments, thus improving the effectiveness and applicability of the measures.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate mr juvin on his excellent work. with the unfair commercial practices directive of 2005 failing to provide the right legal framework to combat misleading and aggressive advertising, a number of new and more persuasive forms of advertising are developing through the internet. the resolution allows european consumers to be better informed about new forms of intrusive advertising on the internet, also calls for greater protection for vulnerable consumers and underlines the role of advertising in promoting positive behaviour patterns. i am particularly concerned about the trivialization of behavioural advertising and the development of intrusive advertising practices, such as reading the content of e-mails, the use of social networks and geolocation and the repetition of advertising targeting, as they represent an infringement of consumers' privacy. i therefore ask the commission to introduce an obligation to include the term 'behavioural advertising' in such online advertising in a clearly legible way.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate mr bendtsen on such an important and timely report on energy efficiency. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that good energy efficiency can help us to reduce co2 emissions in a real way. the advantages of such policy action are diverse: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. to this end, appropriate financial instruments should be provided to strengthen vocational training, research and access to information. i therefore agree with the need to review the european union's energy efficiency policies and to implement concrete plans to boost competitiveness. as regards buildings and eco-design, i agree that it is appropriate to focus on the renovation of existing buildings, which, if properly renovated, would have very high potential for energy efficiency. to achieve these objectives, measures, instruments and funding must be promoted at both member state and european level, for example through the introduction of ad hoc funds.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in her report on the review of the energy efficiency action plan, mrs bendsten rightly points out that national policies are not yet fully exploiting the potential for energy efficiency. the community's strategies in this field must therefore be strengthened. my vote is in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the energy efficiency action plan because i believe it is important to move the eu towards a green and sustainable economy. reducing energy consumption through systemic innovations for energy infrastructure and urban development is the objective that europe proposes in the new action plan that the commission will present in february. i also believe that the objectives should not be binding, because the risk of hurrying the pace is that it will be economically harmful to businesses and citizens. the measures for an action plan shall be consistent with the national plans in order to outline a common methodology for measuring energy efficiency targets.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, even after some improvements to the initial draft, i share mr bendt's view that energy efficiency is the most cost-effective way of reducing co2 and other emissions and that it represents a unique opportunity to sustain and create employment while reducing dependence on energy imports; notes that according to the commission, the energy saving benefits could amount to more than eur 1 000 per household per year.
the agenda includes the debate on - the oral question to the council on economic governance and article 9 of the treaty of lisbon, by stephen hughes, pervenche berès and udo bulmann, on behalf of the s&d group (o-0200/2010 - b7-0660/2010), and - the oral question to the commission on economic governance and article 9 of the treaty of lisbon, by stephen hughes, pervenche berès and udo bulmann, on behalf of the s&d group (o-0201/2010 - b7-0661/2010)
madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, there is no doubt that keeping the threshold of attention high in relation to the question of economic governance is a completely right and proper objective for the european parliament. article 9 cited in the question is entirely consistent with the need to take utmost account of everything that concerns the citizen. today, just a few hours ago, a major piece of legislation was introduced, giving citizens the right to legislate, giving priority to the right of citizenship. more stability means more controls, it means acting promptly and effectively, it means making the most of competitiveness; the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens is a very good one. that is why we must talk about it and talk about it with all the key players.
member of the commission. − madam president, to defend what is called the european social economic model we have to adjust the european model to reality, namely the global challenges and the crisis in europe. if we want to defend the model, it cannot remain the same. a major assumption, which has already been stated, is as follows – this is a basic philosophy: consolidation and the regaining of the confidence of the markets is the basis for stable, sustainable growth and jobs. that is critical to the future welfare of european citizens. referring precisely to the questions from ms harkin and mr de rossa – mr de rossa’s being irish-oriented – we are setting the same rate as the imf in this respect. we are not obliged to make our memorandum to the irish government open to the public. i have to say that there is nothing more anti-social than to produce deficit and debt, which will be charged to future generations of european citizens. there is nothing less responsible than banking practices that are transferring the banking problem into the sovereign debt problem. these are anti-social, irresponsible actions and we cannot blame the commission for them. we recognise that there is a clear tension between the austerity being undertaken in so many countries and its impact upon social inclusion and the level of poverty. we recognise that and therefore we need impact assessments and discussions. such a discussion has been conducted here in the parliament. again, our basic philosophy is that prevention is what is valuable. prevention means that we should influence the policy mix at the national level. the policy mix at national level is mainly responsible for the trade-off between austerity and growth. this is the major responsibility, but we are to influence this policy mix at national level in such a way as to discourage building the future of europe upon debts and deficits because that does not lead anywhere.
president of the council. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as you will have understood from my first speech, the council is well aware of the obligations arising from article 9 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union as regards the need to take account of the overall requirements relating to the promotion of a high level of employment, the guarantee of adequate social protection, the fight against social exclusion and a high level of education, training and protection of human health. these obligations are and will be duly respected in all the council's work. given the universal nature of this obligation, it is also necessary in the field of economic governance. it applies to the results contained in the report of the task force chaired by president van rompuy and endorsed by the european council in october. it also applies to the six legislative proposals which result from the work of the task force and which were presented by the commission on 29 september last. however, compliance with the obligations of article 9 does not imply a formal social impact assessment procedure. our obligation both to the council and to parliament, particularly when it comes to our institutions defining the union's policy and action by adopting legislation in this area, is to take account of these requirements. this will be the case for the council.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by laima liucija andrikienė, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on human rights in the world in 2009 and the european union's policy on the matter (2010/2202(ini)) (a7-0339/2010).
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur for accepting some of my amendments on religious freedom and congratulate her on the success of this report. tragic events are increasingly occurring that affect the freedom of believers around the world: the number of religious freedom violations, assaults and murders is increasing year by year. these criminal acts affect believers of all religions, and christians in particular. religious freedom is paradoxically becoming an increasingly sensitive issue, instead of being one of the most natural and indisputable freedoms. for all these reasons, i reiterate the proposal already made earlier to establish a specific, accurate and annual report by the european parliament to check the state of religious freedom in the world. this report would provide the necessary elements for planning appropriate and preventive policy interventions.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the andrikienė report as a whole is an excellent report, on which the socialist and democratic group has worked very hard and provided us with valuable information. human rights have been one of the founding principles of the european union since its inception and their respect is an essential point which the european parliament must promote every day. a broader understanding of human and fundamental rights, globalisation and the change in our society require a new and different vision that goes beyond the canons hitherto adopted. it is therefore essential to guarantee, among other things, equitable access to natural resources as a fundamental right of every individual. climate change will cause a huge number of refugees to flee the poorest areas of the world in the coming years, and it is our duty to begin to take account of these potential migration flows, so that we can create appropriate policies that allow us to guarantee respect for the dignity of these people. the term 'climate refugee' is not yet recognised in international law. of course, our commitment to combating desertification as an adaptation to climate change remains. these are the issues which i have tried to include in the text of the report so that a serious debate can be opened on them.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as vice-chairman of the committee on development, lady ashton, i am concerned with the problems of many countries, especially in the african region, where human rights are regularly violated, trampled on, if not sometimes even forgotten. i have just returned from an official mission to the democratic republic of congo on sunday, where, in addition to the usual institutional meetings, i wanted to meet the representatives of the ngos operating in the country and visit some of the centres where they work. i must say, they work very well, too! i met the victims in a country where rape is seen as a tool of war, where armed groups continue to repeatedly commit mass rape and other systematic crimes against civil society, especially against women, the elderly and children. i wanted to mention the example of the democratic republic of congo because it was a recent, very recent experience of mine. but the appeal i want to make is generally directed at the need for strong and continuous condemnation of the brutal violations of women's rights. the international community must significantly increase the funds allocated to initiatives to protect women from rape and other forms of violence, such as, among others, genital mutilation, which is also a serious violation of women's human rights and physical integrity.
madam president, lady ashton, ladies and gentlemen, the creation of the european external action service represents a historic opportunity to address human rights and democracy issues. in particular, it will ensure that respect for and promotion of human rights are at the heart of the various areas of the union's external policy. greater synergy between the eu delegations and the embassies of the member states is desirable in order to adopt a country-specific human rights strategy, as the specificities vary considerably from country to country. the death penalty, which is practised in many parts of the world, is one of the most inhumane forms of law enforcement. the use of capital punishment in belarus, the only country in europe still applying the death penalty, is a cause for concern. it is important to put an end to the forms of human rights violations suffered by women, including female genital mutilation. all political means should also be used to support the un general assembly resolution calling for an international moratorium on female genital mutilation. i would like to conclude by urging the commission and the council to intensify their efforts to disseminate the european union's annual report on human rights.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, lady ashton, human rights policy and the european union are at a turning point. the report by mrs andrikienė should certainly be encouraged and supported, as it shows how much concrete work still needs to be done. the european external action service of the european union can carry out its activities effectively, relying on the recognised sensitivity of the member states, but it requires an organic and decisive policy, which in some circumstances is able to dare! we must really protect the human rights of young people, women, the elderly, the disabled, those who have their own religious or political orientation, those who have a different sexual orientation, just as we must protect the joints in which they freely express their thoughts. today, however, important measures have been taken by this parliament, and we believe that only through a strong, concrete dialogue with third countries can a programme genuinely aimed at protecting human rights be developed effectively and effectively.
rapporteur. − madam president, the report that we considered today has been approved virtually unanimously by the committee on foreign affairs of this parliament. it is the result of one year’s work by a team which i led and is based on extensive consultations in kabul and brussels. this report is an attempt to explain a paradox: why has so little been achieved in afghanistan, in spite of nine years of international involvement? since 2001, military operations inside that country have cost more than eur 300 billion and several thousand human lives, and at least another eur 40 billion have been spent on the civilian side: in total, more than 30 times the current afghan gdp. in spite of this huge effort, afghanistan is still the number one producer of narcotic drugs. it is still one of the poorest countries in the world, where – for the majority of the afghan population – life is short, brutal and nasty, as it was in our continent five centuries ago. there are more victims of maternal mortality alone in afghanistan than the war: over 20 000 a year as against 2 300. the answer to this paradox is not simple. the opium problem and the strength of the insurgency must be taken into account, along with the belief in the illusion of a quick military victory, which dominated the early years of the international presence. moreover, the legitimacy of the central government has been overestimated, as has the efficiency of international aid in the reconstruction of the country. this report does not try to simplify all these matters. it accepts the challenge in its full dimension, and this document is an attempt to suggest new directions for our policies. the report approaches the subject from a european standpoint. this means that the afghan crisis is considered from an angle that does not simply mirror the american perspective on it. european values and principles matter. they influence the way the afghan problem is seen by european citizens, and they do not believe in a military solution in principle, because more than 65 years ago we abandoned the idea that war and occupation of foreign lands is good solution. today’s eu is built on an aversion to war, and this report reflects this feeling. on the specific issue of afghanistan, eu citizens strongly support a civilian approach as an alternative to the use of force. our approach is not naive; it is not, as has been said, venus’s softness against mars’s strength. it is instead the power of reason, of human solidarity, applied to a crisis like the afghan one that cannot be approached with a simplistic solution and mentality. this report proposes a strategy that does not exclude the limited use of coercive means. the security of the people of afghanistan from terrorists and criminal attacks is a prerequisite for development, and this parliament believes that the combination of peace-keeping interventions, multilateral diplomacy, domestic peace negotiations, effective poverty reduction measures, the establishment of democratic institutions and the protection of women’s rights are the pillars of a new, winning strategy in afghanistan as elsewhere. i hope that the strategy which is outlined here will be implemented carefully by the new system, and i take this opportunity to invite baroness ashton to join parliament in this endeavour.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i share the rapporteur's view that the enormous problems which remain in afghanistan today require a new approach, that is, a different definition of priorities than has been followed so far. i also welcome the fact that afghan president karzai has set the target of 2014 as the beginning of the period when only the afghan national security forces will conduct the military operations of the various provinces, as well as the commitment of the afghan government to gradually come to the exercise of full authority over its security. but this does not mean that the international community has abandoned the afghan cause. the cooperation with afghanistan must be strengthened in all its aspects, first of all we must promote investment in the economy because it would really mean investing in the stability of the country. this must be done in the right way, namely by establishing a model of cooperation based on inclusive dialogue between social realities and local institutions. but the main issue, as the report rightly states, is that there can be no stability or peace in afghanistan unless the state first ensures the safety of its citizens and takes responsibility. in this connection, i would ask the rapporteur to consider whether it is possible, perhaps by means of an oral amendment, to change the use of drones on the ground, that is to say, in an operational way, in the sense that one thing is to say 'the use of drones is prohibited', another is to say 'let us limit the use of this technological instrumentation as much as possible' so as not to affect the civilian population. let us meet, i believe the rapporteur has the sensitivity and the means to do so. we would be happy to support him in that.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too join in the memory of richard holbrook. i am sure that if this report had been the responsibility of my group, the approach would have been very different from that of mr arlacchi, whom i also thank for the passion with which he has followed the afghanistan dossier for some time. it is a report which today, thanks also to the many qualifying amendments tabled by our political group, appears to be less ideological and certainly able to recognize the critical points that have been identified in these nine years, but also to recognize the positives and the most effective lines of development to be followed in order to contribute to a full re-appropriation of sovereignty by the afghan authorities. it is true that a military response alone cannot be sufficient, but we must emphasize once again that significant military successes have been achieved in recent months - we think of the operations in the areas of almando and kandahar - and that greater force against the insurgents is an indispensable prerequisite for bringing the taliban formations that we would like to bring to the negotiating table to a more peaceful council. this military commitment, and with it the sacrifice of thousands of young soldiers of the isaf contingent - among them many europeans, also many boys from my country - we must claim it with pride, because it is not only a military commitment but also a commitment to reconstruction: we are bringing schools, bridges and civil works to those unfortunate lands that serve the development of this tormented land. in this sense, despite the compromises reached, i believe that there are still some critical points in the report, in particular the one already mentioned concerning the use of drones. i think it is a serious mistake to uncritically deprive ourselves of the possibility of using this instrument which is proving very useful, especially in certain areas of the north-east of the country where it is more difficult to find and defeat the taliban militias. i hope that the rapporteur will reconsider this, otherwise i shall join my group in voting against the report.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with the adoption of several amendments, we agree with mr arlacchi's report and with the priorities which have been highlighted in the report for the future development of afghanistan, in particular a system of transparency of financial aid, the training of the internal police forces and the fight against drug trafficking and the coordination of international aid, which are the essential points of a political and military strategy which has been further strengthened. it is important to stress once again the need to ensure control and stabilization of the territory, so that the taliban's activities are weakened, in order to give life to the peace process. i would like to conclude by stressing the contribution made by the epp group to reaching a consensus on the text. finally, i would like to pay tribute to the action and sacrifice of the soldiers of the multinational isaf contingent for their presence on the ground in defence of freedom and the local populations.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, i will just make a couple of concluding remarks. first of all, i would like to thank the european parliament. this has been an interesting and diverse debate, and i commend you for the continued interest and energy that you put into our engagement in afghanistan. that has been very well demonstrated by the discussion today. as i said at the beginning, i believe afghanistan is important for all of us and for our citizens, and that the european union must rightly remain a key player. i hope that i spelled out at the beginning the priorities and plans for the period ahead, together with the recognition of the balance that needs to be struck between channelling resources through the afghan government and recognising the importance of ensuring that we battle corruption appropriately, in order to safeguard the resources that we have. we remain engaged in key sectors: in health (as i have described), the police, justice, rural development and the sub-national governments – and of course the rule of law is essential. moreover, as i have described, a focus for all these programmes is to ensure that we build up capacity in the local afghan structures and that the government’s priorities in combating the drugs industry and reducing corruption continue to be fully addressed. i also pointed out in my speech the importance of engaging and involving women at all levels of afghan society and, indeed, in the political structures. i took note of mr stevenson’s report and agree that water and irrigation, as in so many parts of the world, are increasingly an issue. mr belder, i promise i will reply to you, as you specifically asked, in writing. i will conclude by again thanking mr arlacchi for the report. i very much look forward to continuing the discussion on the key points at issue in that report and beyond. i end by echoing what was said about ambassador richard holbrooke, and the fact that his final words as he went into his last surgery were on afghanistan. that is very typical of him. how i will miss him.
rapporteur. − madam president, this has been an extremely interesting and lively debate. i just want to make a couple of observations. the first is that i am very happy there has been no criticism by anyone of the four main points of the report. the report asked for reform of international aid, elimination of opium poppy cultivation, better coordination of police training, and support for the peace process. all the observations have been on other issues and i am happy that, after one year of discussion in the committee on foreign affairs, colleagues have confirmed their support for the structure of the report – which is not ‘the arlacchi report’. following its approval by the committee on foreign affairs, this is the committee report that has been approved almost unanimously – with 60 votes for, and one vote against. it also includes several compromises agreed on by all the political groups, so it is very important, too, to refer to the real text of the report, which is the final one. to mr juvin, i would say that there is no mention of occupying forces in afghanistan. that was the original text. the final text says ‘coalition of international forces in place’ in afghanistan. this part of the report has been changed by the amendments. the most important issue is drones. this is not a report on drones. there are just two lines of a compromise between the political groups on the issue of the use of drones. i believe that an agreement could have been reached sooner on that, but i trust my interlocutors and all the different positions, and i trust the compromise we reached. there is no call in the report for prohibition of the use of drones. there is moderate criticism of it, but i believe that an agreement between groups can be found on that. i thank you, and i also thank baroness ashton. i hope she will take full account of the content of the report, which is a very concrete one and calls for an exit strategy from afghanistan.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the new strategic concept developed by nato contains important and positive new elements to meet the challenges of the 21st century in a manner consistent with the values of the atlantic pact. we particularly welcome the relaunch of the strategic partnership with russia, the explicit formulation of the objective of a world without nuclear weapons, the recognition of the importance of a stronger european defence, the reaffirmation of the principle of collective defence and at the same time the affirmation that nato does not consider any country as its adversary. however, there are problems and contradictions which the not new concept does not solve: firstly, there is a lack of a clear and unambiguous commitment to the elimination of tactical nuclear weapons, which are still deployed in europe, despite their being strategically anachronistic and increasingly economically unsustainable. secondly, the role of the european union in the strategic concept still appears to be insufficient and the civil crisis management capabilities planned risk unnecessarily duplicating those of the eu. we are aware of the political problems that are holding back better eu-nato cooperation, but this cannot stand in the way of developing the operational aspect, complementarities and synergies that are commensurate with the ambitions of both sides. helicopters, medical support, explosives are important advances, but they're not enough: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is not surprising that the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what is happening in côte d'ivoire - which observers have observed objectively - is seriously damaging an electoral process which should have been completed by now. the choice of the people was clear and unequivocal, and yet the replacement of the old but still current head of government, gbagbo, by the new ouattara, has not yet taken place. this is unacceptable to the european parliament and to all those who believe in justice! the political instrumentalization of the constitutional council has confirmed the old, which unfortunately still remains the current, representative of the ivory coast. all this is likely to fuel tensions, unrest, not easily controllable. the european people's party cannot accept that the popular vote is subverted by these obscure palace manoeuvres! we therefore ask that the citizens, who have freely expressed their choice by consensus, be able to be governed by the person they have chosen. the united nations is close to this process, we obviously ask that this troubled crisis be brought to an end in a reasonably short time and we trust in the authoritative intervention of lady ashton so that europe, in its highest institution in external relations, can speak its mind with authority and prestige.
madam president, the situation in côte d'ivoire is a test case, and it is one of those test cases which we cannot fail to meet. it is particularly so for the european union, because there is no way in which a stolen victory can be recognised, but there is also no way in which maximum pressure can be withdrawn on the ivorian authorities responsible for this colossal fraud. moreover, it will not be acceptable for a single euro from the european taxpayer to end up, or even pass through, an illegitimate government, in defiance of the most elementary democratic rules. ivory coast needs to know this! the ivory coast is still a test bed for the african union, which is overcoming it in a very interesting way, with a firmness hitherto, and with a unity, unthinkable only ten or fifteen years ago, a sign that the ivorian story must not be used to revive old stereotypes about the incompatibility between black africa and democracy. so far, despite the possibility of widespread violence, which would be catastrophic, ivorian society is also passing this difficult test: the european parliament has given a majority to the reformist candidate ouattara and seems to have taken up the lesson of the great ivorian writer amadu kuruma, who in 1998 published a significant book entitled "in expectation of the votes of the wild animals", which tells this very story from a democratic and entirely ivorian perspective.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as chairman of the committee on agriculture, i am deeply disappointed, for a number of reasons, with the content of the szájer report, which will be put to the vote tomorrow. firstly, none of the amendments voted unanimously by my committee - and i stress unanimously - has been taken into account, even though the common agricultural policy is one of the policies with the most acts adopted under the comitology procedure, and therefore one of the most affected by the adaptation of legislative acts under the lisbon treaty. secondly, with the text of article 10, the european parliament will have no leverage and no room for negotiation with the council on the adaptation of cap legislation to the new treaty. we know that the council has already expressed its intention not to grant delegated acts to the european parliament and that, if this regulation is adopted, the council will have no interest in making any progress in the negotiations, since the automatic adaptation, which excludes delegated acts and provides only for implementing acts, although it is transitional, has no deadline. that is why i have tabled an amendment with other colleagues which makes automatic alignment really temporary and i ask you all to support it in order to strengthen the role of the european parliament. there is no reason to reach an agreement at first reading on such a sensitive dossier, which lays down the rules for implementing the treaty for the coming years. that is why we have the right - and i believe above all that we have the duty - to improve the text as much as possible and to go to the second reading without giving in to the blackmail of the council, which threatens not to want to make any further progress on this important matter in order to make us accept such a negative agreement. i think that this is the most important issue we have to discuss, after the budget, because it redraws the balance of power between the european institutions, and here we must vigorously defend the prerogatives of the democratically elected parliament, which represents all european citizens.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with tomorrow's vote on mr szájer's report we will be launching one of the new instruments - the instrument of implementing acts - contained in the lisbon treaty. this will make it possible to simplify the old comitology system. this measure will ensure greater transparency during the adoption of acts by regulating the way in which member states monitor the exercise of the powers conferred on the commission. the fundamental importance of the regulation has complicated the legislative process, both at interinstitutional level and within parliament, where, however, thanks to the involvement - albeit belatedly - of all the committees, i hope that the proposal will be adopted at first reading. i therefore congratulate the rapporteur on having succeeded in achieving the priority objectives for the european parliament: i refer to the guarantees of alignment of the current comitology procedures with the new procedure, the right of scrutiny by parliament and the council, the creation of an appeal committee chaired by the commission and the inclusion of a review clause which will make it possible to assess the efficiency of the procedure. let me make a final comment on what has been the last obstacle to the negotiations: the inclusion of the common commercial policy in the scope of the future regulation. although the final agreement allows for a transitional period of 18 months for the application of the simple majority voting system for the adoption of anti-dumping measures, measures will be adopted by qualified majority thereafter. i am convinced that this solution, the result of a difficult compromise, meets the needs of both industry and the community executive, by avoiding dangerous politicization of technical decisions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not agree at all with the last few speeches. i personally think that this is a measure which undermines the priorities of parliament and which does not respect the spirit of the lisbon treaty. we are about to conclude 70 per cent of the agreements at first reading with the council, but there is no sense in rushing to conclude at first reading a delicate measure such as this, concerning the implementation of the treaty of lisbon which has extended our prerogatives, especially on trade policy. it is precisely with regard to the opening of anti-dumping proceedings that we move from the objective of the certainty of the right to intervention by the member states, which is likely to be the result of bargaining between the commission and the member states. i therefore believe that this is a step backwards, just as the automatic alignment without time limits from the old comitology to today's agricultural policy enhances the role of parliament. i do not think it is wise to conclude an agreement with the council at first reading so quickly, because we also run the risk of litigation before the court of justice.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome this initiative, which aims to transform the european heritage label into a formal action of the european union to increase its effectiveness, visibility, prestige and credibility. in this connection, i would like to stress the importance of the professionalism of the members of the committee of experts responsible for evaluating sites and the rigour of the procedures for granting and monitoring the trademark for its maintenance over time, as fundamental elements in ensuring the specificity and quality of the trademark itself. however, it must focus on the symbolic and educational value of the site rather than its aesthetic aspect, as is the case with other initiatives to enhance cultural heritage, in order to differentiate itself clearly from them. i therefore also agree that transnational sites should be treated with particular care because of their symbolic importance.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to greet commissioner vassiliou and thank her for having wanted this initiative so strongly, and i would also like to thank the rapporteur and all the shadow rapporteurs for the good work they have done. europe is currently experiencing economic and financial difficulties: we are discussing these days how to help some of the countries in the union which are in difficulty. this is obviously an important action, but europe must not lose sight of the importance of the values which have enabled the union to overcome the countless challenges it has faced throughout its history. the wealth of europe lies in its history, its culture, its art, its people, its landscapes, its symbolic sites, its intellectuals, its philosophers - i dare say - its civilization. and this brand can tell all this, it can highlight european identity in the many forms that the national states have wanted to give it over time. we shall now have to negotiate with the council to resolve certain differences of interpretation on certain points. i think we shall be able to resolve the points of dispute quickly and perhaps easily, given the importance of the subject. i also believe that once this report has been finally adopted, we will all feel more european, in the name of shared values and traditions. i think that through the commission, the work of parliament and the work with the council we are doing a really good job for all our citizens. the speaker agrees to answer a 'blue card' question by mr hans-peter martin (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).
mr president, i am happy to answer mr martin because we know that the question of bureaucracy is sometimes what distinguishes and divides the european citizen from his institutions. from this point of view, the path identified by this report is quite clear. we'll also discuss it with the council. once the national states have chosen the places where they can put the european label, once we have a panel of really such experts who meet, who, with due but not excessive time, are given the opportunity to choose - then we will have to figure out who has the last word on this, but it is a subject that we will have to discuss with both the council and the commission - i do not see excessive bureaucratic problems from this point of view. there are many other measures, but not this one on the brand, which i think is easily followed in certain times and with clear results for all european citizens.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think that at a time in europe's life when it is experiencing a crisis of identity and prospects, it is particularly important to establish a european heritage label to identify those places - tangible and intangible - of high symbolic and educational value for the history, culture and development of the european union. i am very grateful to mrs paliadeli, who has taken up the proposals and additions put forward by many of us in the committee on culture and education, in particular by providing for more certain and respectful procedures for the division of tasks between the member states, the commission, the council and parliament, in accordance with the treaty of lisbon. as other colleagues have already pointed out, it has also worked to ensure that there is no overlap between the labels and other initiatives of unesco or the council of europe, with the historical cultural routes. the member states, in fact, submitting no more than two sites every two years on the basis of well-defined criteria and with their active management this is an important point: the commission will have the role of determining a pre-selection after hearing a panel of experts, but also exercising a monitoring function and every six years will assess the effectiveness of the management of the sites and may also withdraw the label. parliament's role is strengthened not only by the fact that it appoints four of the sixteen members of the european panel, but also by its active interaction with the list of sites pre-selected. i also share the solution given to the complex problem of the trademarks already assigned on an intergovernmental basis to many member states which, however, although they will not be considered suitable for the new system and the new criteria, will remain identified with the old trademark and will not be downgraded. i also appreciate the priority given to transnational sites, which will be a very interesting challenge for europe, and the role recognised for the committee of the regions in a logic of subsidiarity, as well as the emphasis on the need for the member states to be involved in the selection phase, including municipalities and regions, to avoid only partial involvement. but i think that it would also be useful for the member states to make an extra effort, it would be very important that they also launch calls in schools and universities for young people to identify sites, which would also become a way of reconstructing a common history and destiny - the european one - and also contributing to a sense of belonging and european citizenship.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, creating a european identity and increasing the interest of citizens in the union and its origins are two of the challenges that the european institutions must face in order to achieve cohesion and solidarity on a large scale. these challenges are also at the heart of the objectives of the lisbon treaty, which enshrines in article 3 the union's commitment to safeguarding european cultural development. if the european dream is in a difficult phase today, it is not only because of the impasse of europe as a political project or the current economic crisis, but also because of the difficulties of a union based on an identity that has not yet been resolved. in this situation, it is all the more necessary to reduce the distance between the european union and its citizens by transmitting the multinational but at the same time common cultural heritage of the european union to its citizens and above all to future generations. this is the meaning and importance of a european heritage label: to unite europe in its diversity by promoting a common culture and fostering integration between the places concerned within its territory. in order to achieve this, the new brand will focus on the educational symbolic value of a site rather than its aesthetic appearance, and will favour collaboration between sites and support joint projects between them. i therefore commend the excellent work done by the rapporteur and his colleagues in the committee on culture and education, particularly with regard to the procedures for selecting venues and the strengthening of the role of the european parliament in the selection process. i am convinced that the decision of the member states to integrate the mark into the framework of the european union will help to enhance its visibility and prestige, thus achieving the intended objectives of cohesion and solidarity among european citizens.
member of the commission. − mr president, according to the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the conclusion of this agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation needs the consent of parliament before the agreement can come into force. i want to thank the committee on culture and education, and particularly its chair doris pack, for their constructive approach to the agreement. since switzerland refused to join the european economic area, no agreement, until now, has allowed direct or indirect cooperation in education between the eu and switzerland. however, switzerland has, for a long time, shown interest in our education and youth programmes. it has even developed a national support system to encourage partnerships with eu member states’ organisations active in these programmes. furthermore, switzerland has participated in the bologna process and the creation of the european higher education area. switzerland has also followed closely, albeit from the outside, the debate on education policies in the european union. switzerland will be the first country to take part in our programmes that is neither an eu member state nor a member of the european economic area nor a current or potential eu candidate. the commission welcomes the participation of switzerland in the two programmes. the agreement will allow swiss education and youth organisations, as well as individual students, teachers and young people, to participate in the eu’s youth in action and lifelong learning programmes on completely equal terms with eu citizens. projects and initiatives submitted by participants from switzerland will be subject to the same conditions, rules and procedures that apply to projects from member states. switzerland has established a national agency to coordinate implementation of the programmes at national level. it will make an annual financial contribution to each of the programmes and will attend programme committee meetings as an observer for the points that concern switzerland. thank you, honourable members, for the good work you have done in this case.
on behalf of the ppe group. i would like to thank, of course, not only the commission but also the chairman of our committee on culture and education, mrs doris pack, for her work and commitment on this dossier. it is an important aspect that we are discussing today, because we are talking about a tool such as youth in action, which creates contagion, which creates closeness, which creates friendship between the countries of the european union, but also and above all between those who are not part of it, such as switzerland or other countries. it is the great wealth of our multiannual programmes, which, through actions such as youth in action, erasmus, erasmus mundus, lifelong learning, media, media mundus and many others, make it possible to create contiguity between countries of the european union or countries which are not part of the union. you see, with these programmes we have given life to the european union, we have enabled many citizens, especially young people, to meet, to exchange experiences, to know and to be known. we have given teachers, workers in general, the opportunity to improve their skills, and we have given filmmakers, producers, associations from different countries the opportunity to work better. that is why these programmes are important, and that is why we were a little concerned when we did not see them in the commission's work programme for next year. today, therefore, we are taking an important step forward, one which makes the union grow, which strengthens the citizenship of our continent, a step forward - as we have just mentioned in the specific point on the european brand - which helps to create our european identity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is thanks to the determination of mrs pack and the will of commissioner vassiliou that we are able to complete this programme today. as an italian-swiss citizen, i am happy that switzerland is the first non-eu country to participate in european union educational programmes for young people in both higher and continuing education. switzerland, let us remember, although not part of the union, has made a great contribution to the construction of the values and freedoms which are the common heritage of the european continent. it is a sign of the success of programmes such as youth in action that switzerland is asking for the mobility of our european programmes to be extended to its young people, and it is therefore of major importance that switzerland not only asks for an enlarged economic area but also for a wider educational area. i think it is very interesting for the young people of the european union and switzerland to get to know each other better, and i am sure that this will lay the foundations which will also influence the future of the european union.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the participation of switzerland, a country which has chosen not to be part of the european union, in the youth in action programme and the action programme in the field of lifelong learning cannot be excluded a priori, but must be carefully assessed. i therefore agree with the terms of the agreement reached by the commission with the swiss government and i shall vote in favour of mrs pack's report. it is right to grant the benefits of the programmes to switzerland, but it is also right to safeguard all the financial and other interests of the european union.
author of the book. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today is an important opportunity to discuss a strategic issue, namely the protection of animal welfare in agriculture. as from 1 january 2012, the deadlines laid down in directive 74/99, laying down minimum standards for the protection of hens, namely the abolition of conventional battery cages as a breeding system for egg production, will come into force. this method of housing will be banned in favour of systems of rearing which ensure greater welfare of the animals. i have a vivid memory, mr president, of the agriculture council of the european union on 19 july 1999: i am glad that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of animals during transport. now, one year after the irrevocable entry into force of the new legislation, the data indicate that european producers are proceeding with the adaptation of their production system, but not without encountering difficulties. what is needed is a concrete commitment by the commission to safeguard animal welfare, to protect producers who have brought their farming systems into line with directive 74/99 and, at the same time, to ensure that the transition to the new legislation is effectively ensured by avoiding distortions of competition on the market. that is why i and my colleagues in the european parliament have considered it appropriate to include this important subject on the agenda of the committee on agriculture, which i have the honour of chairing. the commission has been working hard in recent months, with the participation of all the parliamentary groups, and this has led to the oral question of 28 october, which raises three important questions for the commission: firstly, information on the implementation of the new legislation within the member states; secondly, measures to be taken in the member states to ensure that the deadlines laid down in the directive are met, if necessary by meeting those undertakings which show a real willingness to comply; finally, measures and guarantees to avert crises on the egg market in the coming years and to avoid unfair competition from third countries which are not obliged to comply with the european union directive on the european internal market. these are the questions to which we expect concrete and definitive answers from the commission. finally, we ask the commissioner to ensure that a more transparent market is created, based on the concept of the so-called reciprocity of rules, in order to promote the prospect of greater international convergence of the animal welfare standards applied by the european union. attention to this issue, which we have discussed several times in committee since the beginning of the legislature, is crucial to preventing european efforts - our efforts, commissioner - on animal welfare from being frustrated by a market which is incapable of recognising the social values embedded in foodstuffs. it is necessary to reduce the distortive effects of the possibility for producers outside the system of community rules to translate the lower constraints on them into greater competitive advantages. the adoption of the motion for a resolution on the welfare of laying hens which we are voting on this morning can be a first and important contribution in this direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the subject of animal welfare has been raised many times in this house and i think it was a choice, i think this parliament, together with the commission and the council, made a thoughtful and balanced choice. i don't think there's any turning back on this one. we therefore have a duty to look for the best ways of applying the theme and in this case we should also decline it with responsibility and responsibly towards all those economic operators who are adapting the production process. it is clear that we cannot extend this date and allow for a further period for the transition to a responsible system in terms of animal welfare. we have to think of all those who have initiated the process of transformation and who are leading it in a time of crisis and difficulty for investment. i would therefore like to draw your attention to the issue of transition itself, that is to say, the issue of all those farmers who have started the process of adaptation to take account of the issue of animal welfare, but who have not yet completed it. and so at such a difficult time, in a crisis, i think that special attention should be paid to these producers too.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, none of us wants to question the need to apply a 1999 directive, nor does the seriousness of this institution matter, none of us wants to question the need to protect animal welfare and health! but the directives must also be based on common sense. i would like to make a few common sense points here today. firstly, since 1999 there has been a deep economic crisis which has bent businesses, the production system and consumption, so many companies have not been able to adapt. do we want to consider it? secondly, strict application from 1 january 2012 would put many farms out of the market, encourage the import of eggs produced by far less animal-friendly methods than those required and implemented in the eu or encourage the relocation of european production facilities outside europe. if that is what we want in a time of crisis, namely to encourage a decrease in employment and an increase in imports of eggs produced outside europe with criteria different from those imposed on our own producers, i think we would be wrong. the idea of a substantial transitional phase is one on which we have worked a lot and which i feel i support, and i ask you, commissioner, to guarantee it.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, directive 1999/74/ec lays down minimum standards for the protection of laying hens in the various farming systems, with the additional objective of protecting against unfair competition between producers in the various member states. while sharing the principles of this directive, it cannot be underestimated that, even today, a very large number of european producers, having started the process of converting their farms, are finding it very difficult to complete this transformation and risk not being ready by 1 january 2012, the deadline for compliance with the directive. furthermore, taking into account the real difficulties faced by many producers in obtaining financing to support conversion processes and the serious economic difficulties they still face today, with serious repercussions on the stability of their businesses and their employment balances, i strongly believe that something must be done and that member states must intervene to promote measures to help those european poultry producers who, in order to adapt to the new european legislation, have started the process of transforming their farms but who will very likely not be able to complete it by the beginning of 2012.
written declarations 0071/2010, 0062/2010 and 0061/2010 have been signed by a majority of the members of parliament and will therefore, in accordance with rule 123 (3) and (4), be forwarded to the addressees and published in the texts adopted by this sitting, together with the names of the signatories.
we now move on to written statement no 61/5010.
mr besset has asked to speak, please.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for details of the vote: see minutes)
madam president, what some of my colleagues are trying to suggest to you - and this is the last vote today, thursday - is that if you say only 'approved' or 'rejected' that is fine, there is no need to say '452 voted; 53 against; 22 in favour; both, third and fourth...'
rapporteur. − madam president, following talks with other political groups, i propose to change the text of paragraph 66 to the following: ‘notes the involvement of the pakistan intelligence service (isi) aimed at making sure that pakistan, too, gets a satisfactory outcome from any peace dividend’.
rapporteur. − i propose to change all the text in the third part of paragraph 71 to the following: ‘and to ensure that drones, special forces and local militias against taliban leaders are used according to general petraeus’ orders for zero tolerance on the loss of innocent civilians’ lives’.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european heritage label is of fundamental importance for a continent which contains the majority of unesco sites and which finally highlights those natural, archaeological, urban and cultural sites which have played an important role in the history, culture and integration of the european union. the approval of the mark is an important step in the process of cohesion of the union and is also educational and formative for cultural dialogue. it is also clear that this choice is a good omen for the new generations, who will increasingly have a common vision of europe's heritage, which can unite them historically and culturally. in thanking the rapporteur for her efforts, i would like to congratulate her most sincerely on the negotiations with the commission and on the successful outcome of this initiative, which is so important for the future of the preservation of european culture.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i abstained from voting today on this report on comitology because once again the anti-dumping procedures, which, as we know, remain one of the few effective means of defence against unfair competition, are being made inapplicable or linked to discretionary policy choices. although the rapporteur has found a compromise with the council, it cannot be avoided to point out that this proposal has not been able to bring trade policy into line with the comitology procedures, especially for the part concerning trade policies, which affects european companies at a time of serious crisis, creating new unemployment and new relocation. without adequate rules against counterfeiting, it is useless to talk about measures to revive the european economy!
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the commission's proposal to use the european heritage label, along with other initiatives, as a tool to reduce the distance between the eu and its citizens, to underline that european history is the result of a common, diverse, rich and complementary cultural heritage. it is a recognition that the eu is rooted in strong values such as freedom, democracy, respect for human rights, cultural diversity, tolerance and solidarity. the decision by the member states to include this heritage label in the eu framework will not only help to increase its visibility, prestige and credibility, but will also make it possible to achieve, on a large scale, the long-held ideals of cohesion and solidarity among european citizens, creating a common european identity and increasing their interest in the union and its origins; the commission's proposal is based on the following two fundamental challenges for the european institutions. the new label will, however, have to focus on the symbolic and educational value of a site rather than its aesthetic appearance, and will have to insist on close cooperation between the sites to which it will be awarded in order to share best practice and initiate joint research and development projects.
in writing. − the choice to include the european heritage label in the eu framework will increase citizens' sense of belonging to the european community by encouraging ideals of cohesion, solidarity and integration. i voted in favour of the report on the european heritage label because the aim of europe is to create a common identity by bringing the eu closer to its citizens through the knowledge of that rich and varied historical and cultural heritage in which everyone can identify with each other and through which young people can learn and search for their own identity by sharing it with other young europeans. the formalisation of the label will also help to enhance the value of those places which have made history in the founding of europe.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate mrs paliadeli on her excellent work. the european parliament today gave its green light to the 'european cultural heritage label', a register of historic sites whose importance transcends national boundaries. the european union has about 500 million inhabitants, most of whom feel primarily citizens of their country of origin rather than european citizens. the lack of a strong european identity can be seen as an obstacle to european integration, but it is not surprising. the european continent is a vast mosaic of languages and customs, and the differences between the countries that make it up are often more obvious than the common features. this initiative will help to strengthen the sense of belonging to europe and to create greater cohesion among citizens of different countries and for this reason it is important to highlight those places that celebrate and symbolise european integration, as well as those that celebrate the ideas and values of the european union. in addition, as with unesco world heritage sites, those with the european logo should attract more tourists, with benefits for the local economy.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the participation of switzerland, a country which has chosen not to be part of the european union, in the youth in action programme and the action programme in the field of lifelong learning cannot be excluded a priori, but must be carefully assessed. i therefore agree with the terms of the agreement reached by the commission with the swiss government and i shall vote in favour of mrs pack's report. it is right to grant the benefits of the programmes to switzerland, but it is also right to safeguard all the financial and other interests of the european union.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today in the plenary we voted on the draft legislative resolution on switzerland's participation in the youth in action programme and the action programme in the field of lifelong learning. although switzerland has decided not to join the european economic area, it has repeatedly expressed its interest in closer cooperation with the european union in the fields of education, training and youth. with this recommendation we concluded an agreement between the eu and switzerland, which allows switzerland to participate in the youth in action and lifelong learning programmes.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this annual report is intended to reaffirm the european parliament's strong determination and its long-term efforts to defend human rights and democracy in the world through the development of an increasingly integrated and effective european policy, capable of ensuring greater coherence and uniformity in all areas of intervention, both through bilateral relations with third countries and through support for civil society organisations active at local and international level. we stress in particular the importance of conducting a comprehensive assessment of the human rights aspects of the european neighbourhood policy (enp), which will examine in particular the coherence and effectiveness of existing mechanisms, such as action plans, progress reports, human rights dialogues and the decision-making process for enhanced relations with non-eu countries. we want to give greater visibility to the european union's future accession to the european convention on human rights, which is an opportunity to demonstrate its commitment to the defence of human rights inside and outside its borders, and we therefore invite all member states to offer their support, to make citizens commit themselves to this.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the report on human rights in the world in 2009 and the european union's policy on the matter is a very important tool for strengthening the role of the european external action service in human rights policy. these have always been the hallmark of the european union in the world. i agree with the rapporteur when she stresses that freedom of religion and belief is, among all human rights, a primary and fundamental right that must be respected, and that the conditionality regarding respect for human rights, provided for in bilateral agreements with non-eu countries, must be able to be imposed with greater force and effectiveness. it is therefore right to call on the high representative to integrate freedom of religion or belief into eu human rights policy and to make a thorough assessment of the situation of freedom of religion or belief in the eu's annual human rights report. i shall vote in favour of the andrikiene report.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate mrs andrikienè on her excellent work. the parliament's annual report on human rights - this year covering 2009 - is a reference point for all those interested in the subject. this is even more important, because it is the first since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which gives the eu greater powers in foreign policy. the greatest hope for human rights is the implementation of the lisbon treaty in foreign policy: the external action service shall reflect the priorities and the spirit of the treaty. one of the priorities of a coherent foreign policy should be the promotion of democracy and human rights. finally, i know that parliament's annual report on human rights does not just provide a long list of problems, it also suggests solutions. we have seen the abolition of the death penalty in some countries, progress on violence against women, on the protection of children, on the fight against torture, on the protection of human rights activists, on the promotion of democracy and religious freedom, and so on.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the andrikiene report because i think it is necessary to stress once again that respect for human rights is the mirror of modern society. all human beings are born free and equal, and it is our clear duty to do everything possible to ensure that this opportunity is valued throughout the world. although the eu's external policy has made important progress in recent years, there is still a long way to go before a shared and coherent policy for the promotion of human rights is adopted. firstly, the council and the commission must improve the european union's capacity to respond rapidly to breaches in third countries. the european union's firm condemnation of the death penalty is a starting point for the daily struggle to win and reassert human rights. in this connection, mr president, i would like to conclude by recalling what mahatma gandhi said: 'the protection of human rights is the necessary prerequisite for peace', and this should never be forgotten.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this report is perhaps the best compromise that can be reached today on the new european strategy in afghanistan, thanks in part to the many qualifying amendments tabled by the epp, which have made it less ideological and more pragmatic, capable of recognising the critical points of the nine years of mission in afghanistan, but also of identifying the positives and the lines of development to make the presence of the international community more effective and to encourage the transition towards a full re-appropriation of sovereignty by the afghan authorities. it is true that a military response alone cannot be sufficient. but it is an indispensable prerequisite for weakening the taliban formations, forcing them to sever all ties with al qaeda and thus to sit down at the negotiating table. the first is that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the use of drones in the border areas with pakistan. enhance the commitment in eupol to continue training a police force capable of managing public order and step up the training of magistrates and administrative officials, in order to foster the strengthening of afghan institutions, reduce corruption and build the conditions for the return of afghanistan to afghans.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the report on a new strategy for afghanistan is to be regarded as a positive one overall and i therefore vote in favour. the enormous problems that remain in afghanistan today, each of a different nature and all of extraordinary importance for the future of the middle eastern country, require to be addressed according to a new logic, with a different definition of priorities than what has been done so far. the primary issue, as it is correctly stated in the report we are going to vote on, is that 'there can be no stability or peace in afghanistan unless the state first ensures the safety of its citizens and takes responsibility'. in this connection, i hope that the rapporteur will reconsider the part where he talks about the use of drones, perhaps through an oral amendment.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate mr arlacchi. the report adopted today proposes to articulate the new eu strategy for afghanistan around four key factors: full support for the peace negotiations between the karzai government and the taliban and other insurgent groups; a major training plan for the afghan police; the elimination of opium cultivation; the european union is also calling for the immediate release of the hostages and the immediate release of the hostages. as for the last point, it is noted that international aid to afghanistan ends up in bribes, forms of 'legalized corruption' and robberies of all kinds, and often finances the enemy. since 2002, the eu alone has paid the beleaguered country €8 billion and yet infant mortality has risen, literacy levels have fallen and the incidence of those living below the poverty line has increased by 130% in the last six years alone. to address the lack of coordination and transparency among international donors, the eu is invited to establish a centralised database of all eu aid and to allocate more funds directly to concrete projects in partnership with afghan institutions.
in writing. the compromise reached allows the commercial policy, including trade defence instruments, to be included in the overall comitology framework. this approach is entirely consistent with the spirit and the letter of the lisbon treaty. in particular, i fully share the need to strengthen the decision-making and implementation process by giving the commission the appropriate tools in the common interest of the eu, the member states and all economic operators. i support the principle that the commission should adopt definitive anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures and that member states should vote by qualified majority.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i repeat what i said yesterday in the debate and i am very pleased that amendment no 12 has been adopted, although i would have included an even more direct reference. new and innovative instruments must be found to finance the crisis mechanism. the issue of eurobonds would allow the anti-crisis facility to be financed on the market by drawing on foreign capital and investors, without any burden on national budgets. a mechanism based solely on the contribution per quota, in the form of mere provisioning of reserves, would impose a heavy burden on the states which would have to find means or capital to be deposited without, however, bringing any return or return. in a situation like the present, where on the one hand we are asking the states to implement strict budgetary policies to reduce deficits and debt and on the other hand we are asking for contributions to the anti-crisis fund, there is a real risk of collapse.
in writing. - i think it is appropriate that the commission has come to parliament today to report on the ban on the use of unmodified cages for laying hens which will come into force from january 2012. the implementation data are not very encouraging and therefore very severe action is needed against member states that have been lax in taking action in time. the banning of these cages has been known since 1999, and the member states that have subsequently joined were fully aware that they had to take steps in this direction according to precise timetables. a postponement is not acceptable. the deadlines must be respected to give credibility to the european union's action. the treaty requires the eu to set its policies with the welfare of animals as sentient beings in mind. let us not always hide behind the problem of competitiveness, which should not be seen as a question of quantity and price but above all of quality, environmental sustainability and also ethics. conscious and critical consumption must be the basis of a new economic model, which the eu must promote. the commission should therefore proceed swiftly and decisively to implement directive 74/99, which protects animals and consumers.
in writing. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as of january 2012 the ban on keeping laying hens in traditional cages will come into force and we are alarmed by the risk that many businesses will not be able to do so. we are also concerned about possible shortages in supply and price increases for eggs, as eggs from farms which do not comply with directive 1999/74/ec will not be marketed. i voted in favour of the resolution because it is not possible to get an extension, but we have supported countries such as spain and portugal in activating an instrument to ensure a 'soft' transition for companies that have started to change their farming systems but will not complete the process before the deadline. it is not my intention to harm animal welfare and ask for an extension, but just to highlight some of the cornerstones that need to be emphasized. first, in the interests of reciprocity, the european commission is asked to implement a control system to monitor the quality of eggs imported into the eu and to ensure full compliance with european rules and standards. the member states are then urged to include measures in their rural development programmes to support the laying hens sector at this difficult stage.
in writing. − directive 1999/74 states that from 1 january 2012 conventional cages will no longer be used. european farmers will have to choose between converting their production to enriched cages (with more capacity, to allow for greater animal welfare), or raising laying hens on land, outdoors or in organic systems. according to recent surveys, 30% of farms in europe are still in traditional cages, and there are real difficulties in adapting to the new system within the time limits laid down by the directive. this is the case in italy, for example. the european commission, as well as the agriculture council of 22 february, has decided that no derogation is foreseen in the application of the ban. but an amendment to the resolution has provided an alternative solution for those producers who have already begun to replace their farming systems with new cages. that is why i voted in favour.
author of the book. - mr president, the situation is very serious. we believe that this matter, which is also being covered by the european media, should be addressed by the union and parliament, and we urge the commission to take an interest in it because it is a real humanitarian emergency. in this case the member states must do everything possible to try to help these refugees to leave that territory and we think they can be adopted by european states. we call on the commission to do everything possible to carry out this operation, including using the funds available through the european refugee fund.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment is intended to make our assessment of egypt's behaviour more penetrating. it is not just a matter of acknowledging that something has been done by egypt, but of demanding that it act quickly and immediately to free these hostages, and also urging it never to use force to the point of death to repel those who are crossing the sinai. it also calls for the unhcr to be able to make immediate contact with the people currently being held hostage. 'urge the egyptian authorities to take all necessary measures to secure the release of eritrean hostages, to avoid the use of lethal force against illegal immigrants crossing the country's borders, to protect their dignity and physical and psychological integrity, and to ensure that detained immigrants have a chance to contact the high commissioner for refugees and that asylum seekers and refugees in custody are granted access to the high commissioner.'
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would ask that a paragraph which is very close to our hearts be added to the resolution, which is not very far from the text, and that is paragraph 9 of the joint resolution. i read it: 'call on the member states to address the humanitarian emergency through the voluntary reintegration into the union of all refugees concerned; calls on the european commission to coordinate this operation and to use the funds available through the european refugee fund;'
mr president, i would ask the rapporteur to clarify one point. the requested intervention, according to the text that has been read, concerns all those who are seeking asylum. i would say rather 'those who have the right to asylum', because 'those who ask' is very dangerous, there is a risk that anyone can apply for asylum. on the other hand, the high commission will be responsible for evaluating this amendment in coordination with the high commission. however, i ask the rapporteur to amend the wording to read 'those who are entitled to asylum'.
