mr president, i would like to draw your attention to the situation at the eastern border of the baltic states. for many years now, before each christmas, there has been a continual blocking of trucks from all over europe at the eu’s eastern external borders. this situation causes serious disturbances both for the carriers and for the eu companies. it places even more strain on relations between the eu and neighbouring third countries. i believe that the newly established european external action service needs to react to this current situation and to cooperate more actively with the third countries involved to resolve this situation.
mr president, in recent days there have been a number of complaints about the ineffectiveness and slowness of the response to the haitian crisis. many point to the increasing insecurity, the growing despair among those who survived the quake, and the appalling lack of food and clothing. it is true that these problems exist and we need to solve them as soon as possible. however, we should applaud the engagement of various international actors, ranging from governments to civil society organisations and to individuals worldwide. the european union is certainly among those who have expressed their wholehearted solidarity with the haitian people. again, many have criticised the supposedly slow reaction of the eu to the crisis even today, but the eu is not only about decisions made in brussels. national governments have already sent thousands of men and women to help the haitians and have allocated millions of euros in aid. the role of the eu should be concentrated more on medium- and long-term aid and aimed at the reconstruction of haitian towns and villages, of their infrastructure, schools and hospitals. the eu can certainly be the forum, the umbrella under which europe’s medium- and long-term aid can be distributed and coordinated. the pledge recently made by the commission and the member states to earmark almost eur 500 million is certainly a big and significant step in this direction, and we should all stand behind it.
in fact, today, after the treaty of lisbon, the most serious problem has probably just happened and we need to understand the situation of the high representative, or high representative, who at the very beginning of his mandate has to face a rather difficult task, one that i would even say has never been a practical one before. yes, indeed, today we see certain shortcomings, that in the future we will need a more prepared joint european union force, capable of participating in rescue operations, and i think that the biggest contribution today would be that the money that was mentioned today reaches the republic of haiti as soon as possible, that it is implemented as soon as possible and spent on the reconstruction of the infrastructure itself, even as the president of haiti mentioned, that it is intended to be used for perhaps also removing those non-smoking fireworks that are lying in the streets today.
madam president, i have a short comment and two questions to put to baroness ashton. it seems that the eu is now faced with a dilemma. on the one hand, we need to support more robust action against terrorists who directly pose danger to the security of european citizens. various islamist extremist groups in yemen have been more active than ever before, and al-qa’ida sees yemen as one of its most important areas to plan attacks on western targets and to train militia and potential suicide bombers. the failed operation against the northwest airlines plane is the most recent example of the threat we face. on the other hand, one should know that the yemeni authorities have more than once been accused by various human rights organisations of torture, inhuman treatment and extrajudicial executions. arbitrary arrests of citizens and searches of homes are widespread, and the need to fight terrorism has been cited as the main excuse for such unlawful actions. in this context, baroness ashton, referring to the council conclusions on yemen, what kind of support has the eu to offer to yemen in terms of fighting terrorism? in addition, the eu considers that there is no military solution for the crisis in the area. at the same time, washington has signed the agreement with the yemeni authorities on closer military cooperation. so, i would appreciate your opinion and the position of the european union on the decision by the americans to engage more actively in yemen to fight terrorists, especially by signing the agreement on military intelligence and training.
i agree with the commission and my colleagues that the situation in yemen is tense. the country is devastated and impoverished by endless guerrilla wars and separatist fighting, and the people are suffering from poverty. such economic and political instability has already caused concern in the neighbouring countries of the arabian peninsula and threatens not only regional but also global security. the recent increase in the activity of terrorist groups is cause for concern. consider, too, the failed attempt to blow up a plane bound for the united states and the threats against embassies in yemen. america has already declared that it will pay particular attention to the situation in this country, and i therefore believe that it is the duty of the european parliament, the european commission and other institutions, especially after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, to take joint and coordinated action with the international community in the implementation of the common foreign policy.
in recent years, the european union has significantly strengthened its links and influence in the middle east. the european union has always paid close attention to iraq and has been involved, together with the international community, in both reconstruction efforts and peacekeeping and security missions. the country is still in the midst of a power struggle between different factions, which is hampering the implementation of reforms in various areas. the ban on 14 parties from participating in the upcoming elections is also a cause for concern. the european union and other states have a duty to demand and, if necessary, to help iraq to respect its international obligations and respect human rights and freedoms. i think iraq is really ready for close cooperation with the european union. the eu-iraq memorandum of energy cooperation signed on monday clearly demonstrates its commitment to developing a long-term and mutually beneficial relationship. iraq is of vital importance to the european union from an energy perspective, but ensuring the security of energy supply is inextricably linked to the economic and political stability of the country, which has been under great pressure in recent times. it is a long process, of course, but i believe that the european union, as high representative, and the international community, must propose measures and solutions to ensure that human rights and the rule of law are the main pillar of the future policy in iraq.
recent events in lithuania, where an organised gang profiting from human trafficking was arrested, once again show that this crime is a widespread phenomenon, which has intensified during the economic and financial crisis. today, nearly 90 percent of trafficking victims are women and children, most of whom are victims of poverty and survival. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. it is also necessary to ensure the safety and full integration of victims of trafficking in human beings. all participants, organizers, sponsors of this terrible crime must not escape responsibility.
i also hope that the spanish presidency will be a success and that, in addition to the priorities set, spain will not ignore the most pressing issue of our time, namely human rights and freedoms. after the lithuanian parliament's investigation into the cia prisons, it turned out that in another country, a european country, the infrastructure for the illegal imprisonment of a person was created. the european union and the united states are like two poles of world politics and economics, equal allies and partners, but that does not mean that in sovereign states, the cia can be the master of its own backyard. i think that the european parliament should reopen its inquiry into the illegal transport and detention of persons in european countries. the outcome of this study should be a document that commits the member states to guaranteeing the rights and freedoms of every citizen unconditionally.
i have only a minute, so i will concentrate on the rights of citizens. the spanish presidency is an opportunity to put our house in order. one example is the canary islands and the people who live there. last summer i was there to take a spanish course. to my surprise, i found out that if i take a spanish course in a school on the peninsula or in the balearic islands, the expenses are reimbursed, but if it is in a school in gran canaria, no, because it is not part of europe. it is part of the european union, but it is not part of europe, and the consequence is that language schools in these islands, even if the quality of the courses is excellent, are deprived of the opportunity... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. spain takes over the presidency of the european union following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. this means that the presidency will have to work even more closely with the european parliament in implementing its ambitious programme. i agree with the main priorities of the spanish agenda on the eu 2020 strategy, on ensuring employment and social progress, on initiatives in the fields of education and innovation and on energy security issues. spain is committed to continuing the implementation of the long-term programmes it has started and it is therefore necessary to draw up a plan of specific measures for the implementation of the stockholm programme. as a member of the european parliament from lithuania, it is very important to me that the presidency continues to implement the baltic sea strategy adopted during the swedish presidency. this year is the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion. i would ask that spain, during its presidency, take the necessary measures to combat poverty and guarantee minimum social guarantees. the swedish presidency of the northern eu was a success, and i would like to wish the southern eu country a fruitful year for spain in the interests of eu citizens.
in writing. − i support this commission proposal for a temporary suspension of the application of the community customs tariff, because i believe that the eu must demonstrate, rather than merely declare, its solidarity with regions struggling with the consequences of the economic crisis. i believe that this measure is in line with the european economic recovery plan, as the economic crisis has affected different eu member states and regions in different ways, and therefore measures must be ensured to meet the specific economic needs of each member state or region. as these islands are dependent on tourism, the decline in tourist flows has created the threat of unemployment and the collapse of small and medium-sized enterprises, which would be particularly painful for the inhabitants of these remote islands. in applying the duty exemption, the community must also ensure that the measure achieves its primary objective of encouraging local entrepreneurship and helping local farmers and small and medium-sized enterprises to survive in this difficult period, and that these principles are also applied to other eu member states.
in writing. − the second revision of the cotonou agreement is taking place in a very challenging environment when the global economy is facing crisis. i believe that the revision of the agreement will allow the major principles of cooperation between the eu and the acp countries to be refreshed and reinforced. the situation has changed since the agreement was first signed and new challenges and problems have arisen. the negotiations on the agreement should encompass such extremely important points as the fight against climate change in developing countries, the practical use of immense renewable energy resources, the food crisis and the acquisition of arable land. a lot of attention should be given to migration problems. in recent years we have witnessed hundreds of young africans drowning off the shores of the eu. massive immigration is a result of failing economies, impoverishment of the people, human rights violations and many other causes. those things should be addressed clearly in the revised agreement.
madam president, i very much welcome the efforts of my colleagues insisting on a strategy for the danube region. coming from lithuania, i am very well aware that member states alone are unable to achieve significant progress in terms of economic development, environmental protection, sustainable transport and tourism, energy and many other areas. i am positive that regional strategies can be more effective and should be promoted because member states are then acting in the common interest. i wish my colleagues the determination to achieve their goals and i believe that their voice will be heard by the new commission, especially because sustainable regional development is among the top priorities on the commission’s agenda.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the european union is now negotiating a new framework agreement with china, which will set a further path for the development of economic relations with the country. those relations are very tight, but we must not close our eyes before repeated human rights violations and with respect for the rule of law. the european union must strengthen the eu-china human rights dialogue. this dialogue, established in 2000, proved to be inefficient. the eu, and especially the high representative, should ensure coordinated and effective eu common foreign policy towards china. respect for human rights must serve as a basis for this policy.
on behalf of the s&d group if the average european is asked about what is happening in the philippines, and he probably cannot answer, and he says that the tv shows nothing, it is probably quiet there. but political killings, clan clashes, burying people alive, chainsaws, warfare - these are the daily realities of the philippines. fifty-seven people were killed recently, half of them journalists, the highest number of journalists killed even on a global scale. we call on the government, we demand that it stop these things, that it unleash its private armies and that it finally put an end to impunity. this is particularly important in the run-up to the election.
i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs tarabella, for her work. investing in human capital and social infrastructure, enabling women and men to reach their full potential, is crucial to overcoming the economic downturn. the european union is now close to the lisbon strategy target of 60% female employment by 2010. however, there is a great disparity in the employment of women between member states. the commission and the member states must therefore take effective measures to implement the directive on equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment and occupation. today, there is a wide disparity between the pay of women and men in the member states and member states should be urged to apply the principle of equal pay for equal work. the commission has not yet submitted a proposal to review the application of the principle of equal pay for men and women. it is necessary to promote equal sharing of responsibilities in personal and family life between women and men, by a more appropriate distribution of paid and unpaid work. member states must take all possible measures to ensure the availability of childcare facilities for pre-school children. the issue of paternity leave is still unresolved and a common solution to the directive on paternity leave needs to be found as soon as possible. in addition, the commission's consultation on the new 2020 strategy does not pay sufficient attention to gender equality issues. gender equality needs to be strengthened and mainstreamed in the new strategy. in conclusion, i would like to thank the commissioner from the bottom of my heart for our longstanding cooperation in the fields of gender equality, employment and social affairs. thank you and good luck!
i also want to support and congratulate the new commission and the new members, but i would like to draw attention to what was not discussed in the political groups, in the parliamentary session, in the plenary session, on the appointment of the members themselves. i have also expressed my support for the appointment of a candidate, with the support of at least two thirds of the national parliaments, to the european union government. that's one. and another, not mentioned very important, i think the new government should pay special attention to, to protect european union businesses from imports that come from those countries that do not have the values that we promote. it is ecology, social security, and ultimately democratic institutions. it's necessarily what we need to spend more money on, what drives up the cost of our services and goods, what makes it difficult to compete with our entrepreneurs...
in writing. − inter-institutional relations between the parliament and the commission are moving in a different direction with the lisbon treaty. we parliamentarians are sending a clear message to the commission that the european parliament never again will be a mere observer but an equal player in the shaping of european policy. policy actions at the community level lack coherence and leave europe totally disabled when unexpected situations come up. and when they do come up we are unable to respond to them in an effective and coordinated manner. the president of the commission has committed himself to engage in an open, transparent and constructive relationship with the european parliament in order to set clear and feasible policy aims together and to ensure high quality legislation. it is now time for mr barroso to remember his promises and to ensure that the requests of the european parliament are clearly reflected in the framework agreement.
in writing. − i support this framework agreement because cooperation between the european parliament and the european commission is of paramount importance in strengthening the sustainability and efficiency of the european union. under the agreement, the european commission will have to respond to a request for legislation from the european parliament within one month and prepare the relevant european union law within one year. if the european commission refuses to prepare the requested act, it will have to give a full justification for its decision. until now, only the european commission could initiate european union legislation, but the treaty of lisbon provides for a european parliament majority to legislate for the european union. parliament and the commission will cooperate closely at an early stage in all cases of requests for legislative initiatives following a citizens' initiative. the european parliament's experts will also be included in the debates when international agreements are signed. the agreement will give parliament the right to participate as an observer in some of the european union's international negotiations, as well as the right to receive more information on international agreements.
in writing. − today we have approved the new composition of the european commission, although it must be admitted that the doubts raised by the commissioners-designate in their hearings have unfortunately not been completely dispelled. the commission's guidelines for action and the programmes of individual commissioners are both the most important social aspects. the impression is given that the main criterion on which the formulation of objectives and targets is based is the consolidation of europe's role in the world, while the rights and expectations of our citizens and social protection are relegated to a secondary position. the s-d group decided to support the commission because, when europe is beset by an endless economic and financial crisis and rising unemployment, and when europe is a disappointment to the citizens, the european parliament and europe in general must not become a place where positions or oppositions are divided. the key now is to focus on the main issues on the political agenda, so that europe can end its state of uncertainty and instability as quickly as possible and tackle the most pressing problems, such as the financial crisis and unemployment, more quickly and effectively.
in writing. − it should be in the interests of citizens and institutions in all eu countries that the best, strongest candidates become commissioners. the responsibility is great, both for the countries that put forward candidates and for the members of the european parliament. unfortunately, some countries have not followed this provision. it seemed that eu governments sometimes sent weak or 'uncomfortable' politicians to brussels to free up space in the capitals. this is a dangerous trend. however, the european parliament is keen to show a 'red card' to weak candidates who have both the mandate of their governments and the endorsement of the president of the european commission, jean-michel barroso, or whose financial interests are unclear. five years ago, there were two candidates, this year there's one. unfortunately, meps do not yet have the right to vote for individual commissioners, but we do vote for the college of commissioners. as most of the commissioners-designate had made a good impression, i voted for the new european commission.
people across the european union face problems with home renovation, but the situation is particularly difficult in the new member states of the european union. the new member states have one thing in common: they all inherited uneconomical apartment blocks, which are very expensive to maintain and which are very slow to be renovated or not renovated at all. it is essential that the application of this regulation is not limited to exceptionally large socially excluded communities, but that its provisions are also applicable to other most socially vulnerable groups, such as the disabled, the poor, young families with limited resources, migrants and others who also suffer from social exclusion and lack the possibility to renovate their housing. i am convinced that this document will enable every region of the european union to invest in social infrastructure, with the help of the structural funds, ensuring affordability of housing, which in turn will not only help to reduce social exclusion but also contribute to the development of sustainable social, economic and environmental policies throughout the community.
madam president, i welcome commissioner füle and i would like to congratulate the authors for three well-balanced reports. there is no doubt that the prospect of eu membership has pushed turkey to change for the better. after all, this muslim country is unique in that it took the first steps to adapting european values almost 100 years ago and despite the various historical winds it did not go off the road. turkey is the most western of eastern states and the most eastern of western states, so its unique role is not only european but also global. ankara must accelerate reforms, more determinedly seek compromise on the cyprus problem and take further steps on reconciliation with armenia. however, i strongly support the socialist and democrats group’s position that the prospect of turkey’s membership of the eu should not be changed by any ersatzlösung or ersatz variants.
madam president, i have a brief comment on turkey. turkey still has some very serious problems in the area of human rights. one of the outstanding issues is setting the rights of ethnic and religious minorities – kurds, christians, alevists and others. these minorities are suffering from constant violations of their rights. cyprus and greece are, and will remain, of the utmost importance to the european union. so, commissioner, we therefore have to make it clear to our turkish partners that it is very difficult to speak about turkey’s european integration until problems related to turkey’s religious and ethnic minorities are solved.
today's debate has shown that, while members of the european parliament have different views on turkey's progress, we all seem to agree on one thing: the key to membership of the european union is the proper and high-quality implementation of fundamental reforms. it is too early to set specific dates, but we must monitor and demand progress from turkey, because the recent events, with the banning of political parties, are worrying and do not reflect turkey's commitment to respecting civil and political freedoms and rights. but we must give it the opportunity to reconsider its actions and to expect turkey to be a democratic and free country in the future.
mr president, i supported this report because i believe that it represents a step forward in combating fraud and tax evasion on a european scale. despite the willingness of member states to cooperate in the field of taxation, tangible results have not been achieved, and tax fraud remains at an extremely high level in the eu and brings far too many negative implications both to our economies and our citizens. i very much welcome the proposed new improvements, which will hopefully produce tangible results in the fight against fraud and tax evasion, especially the extension of the scope of the directive on all taxes, including social security contributions, the automatic exchange of information and improved cooperation between the member states in matters of taxation.
in writing. − the application of the reverse charge vat system is welcome. but i see a flaw in it. for example, entity a sold to entity b. subject b was served by subject c. entity c to the final consumer or to the non-vat payer. in contrast, entity a does not pay vat because it is not the final seller. the vat is paid by entity c only when the goods are sold to the final consumer. the point is that entity b remains completely exempt from taxation despite the essence of its business: buy cheaper sell more expensive. it is therefore proposed that entity b should pay the vat on the price difference to the treasury. there are advantages to this scheme everywhere except for one thing: no one will go to the state treasury for a vat refund, but if entity c is a fraud, it will simply not pay vat as a final seller. this means that there will be no negative balance in the reverse vat payment scheme, since no one will intervene in the vat refund and i think that the administration of this scheme will also be easy, since the difference in the prices of goods will be very easily detected by the state tax inspectorates. if i am wrong, i would be pleased to receive a written reply as to the suitability or inadequacy of the scheme i am proposing.
in writing. − i support this framework agreement because cooperation between the european parliament and the european commission is of paramount importance in strengthening the sustainability and efficiency of the european union. under the agreement, the european commission will have to respond to a request for legislation from the european parliament within one month and prepare the relevant european union law within one year. if the european commission refuses to prepare the requested act, it will have to give a full justification for its decision. until now, only the european commission could initiate european union legislation, but the treaty of lisbon provides for a european parliament majority to legislate for the european union. parliament and the commission will cooperate closely at an early stage in all cases of requests for legislative initiatives following a citizens' initiative. the european parliament's experts will also be included in the debates when international agreements are signed. the agreement will give parliament the right to participate as an observer in some of the european union's international negotiations, as well as the right to receive more information on international agreements.
in writing. − in order to improve the absorption of european union funds for the renovation of buildings, housing and taking into account national practices and the difficulty of co-financing, it should be proposed to national governments to create a common fund to which they could pool funds by covering co-financing with public funds. in other words, until the co-financing is covered by the state, the building managers and the apartment owners have to pay the same absolute amount as before the renovation. the reason is that property managers and landlords often do not have the possibility not only to cover the co-financing from their own money but also to take out a bank loan for this purpose. another welcome element of this initiative is the targeting of renewal funds to rural areas. most private houses in rural areas are heated autonomously, i.e. without central payment for heating, and it is therefore proposed to set an absolute monthly amount that could cover the co-financing of this housing over time. this would make it easier for national states to co-finance the renovation of rural housing legally.
in writing. − trafficking in human beings is one of the most horrific and serious crimes. the fight cannot be effective without a coherent policy approach focusing on prevention, protection of victims and effective sanctions for traffickers. free movement within the eu has brought substantial benefits to our citizens but at the same time has opened many ways for traffickers. tens of thousands of young women and children from new member states become victims of human trafficking every year. the european parliament will have a crucial role to play in combating trafficking in human beings. it will be for us to ensure that prevention, protection and support for victims are put high on the political agenda. we must demand that member states fully implement current eu policies and other instruments on trafficking in human beings and ensure that tougher penalties and sanctions are put into place.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the european union must fight illegal migration and trafficking in human beings. as unemployment rises, many people are at risk of becoming victims of trafficking or exploited for forced labour. first, people who have lost their jobs in their own country, who have lost hope of a better life, will look for success elsewhere. criminal groups can take advantage of this situation. the main trafficking of children, especially girls and women, has not changed for many years. sexual exploitation in slavery is particularly prevalent in eastern europe, which is a transit route for human trafficking to the west. we must develop a strategy of measures to combat trafficking in human beings, with a strong focus on combating and preventing trafficking in human beings, protecting victims and sanctioning them. all member states must take strong measures to combat trafficking in human beings, ensuring a minimum harmonisation of national legislation. it is necessary to pursue closer cooperation between all stakeholders on trafficking in human beings.
in writing. − europe and the world had high hopes for the copenhagen conference. the eu was determined to lead the way and come back with a legally binding treaty, but the assembly ended with very little clarity on how the climate change situation would develop. the copenhagen accord, which lacks ambitious targets and commitments, is a failure. the ambitious eu 20/20/20 goal may remain a distant vision if the issue is not addressed globally. the eu, through its external action service, must start to lead the strategy of climate change diplomacy as soon as possible and to work to ensure that europe, in particular, speaks with one voice and takes a principled position in negotiations with other countries in order to reach a binding international climate agreement as soon as possible.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, in the face of a complex economic, financial and social situation, it is more important than ever to implement one of the most important founding principles of the european union: equality between women and men. each member state must ensure that workers of both sexes are paid equal pay for work of equal value. to promote equality between women and men, it is necessary to ensure that women and men share family and household responsibilities. it is essential that the directive establishes parental leave more quickly, allowing the father to contribute to the care of the children. the victims of trafficking in human beings are mostly women, and i therefore urge those member states which have not ratified the council of europe convention on action against trafficking in human beings to do so immediately.
in writing. − i worked in the delegation for relations with macedonia (the former yugoslav republic) during the last term of office, visited the country and am pleased with its achievements. 2009 was a successful year for macedonia. the eu has introduced a visa-free regime with this country. this is particularly helpful for developing human relationships. last year, macedonia demarcated its border with kosovo, improved relations with greece. in the resolution on macedonia's progress in 2009 towards meeting the eu membership criteria, we highlighted the need for the government to take more sensitive account of national minority issues and to promote greater media transparency. we have called on the eu institutions to help resolve the name dispute between skopje and athens over the name of the macedonian state. we also invited the eu council of ministers to approve the opening of accession negotiations with macedonia in march. the progress made in 2009 was due, among other things, to the eu's magnetism. there is no doubt that the prospect of eu membership is pushing macedonia to change for the better. this country is making remarkable reforms, and i voted in favour of a resolution that praises them but also highlights the way forward.
for the efd group the european parliament must do everything possible to ensure that the secret services do not torture people, create secret prisons and, where this is not the case, organise coups d'état under the guise of fighting terrorism. mr president, i quote the testimony of the british ambassador to uzbekistan, mr c. murray, to the european parliament's committee: 'i have seen many cases of torture in uzbekistan. i found a case of a man who was boiled to death during an interrogation. here's another officer, sir woods, giving his testimony: "we receive intelligence obtained through torture, we do not violate the un convention against torture if we do not torture ourselves". can human rights be more distorted? mr. president, i am addressing you to call for the resumption of the parliamentary inquiry, the resumption of the work of the ad hoc committee on the alleged transportation and detention of cia prisoners in europe.
in writing. while ensuring the security of air transport in the fight against terrorism is undoubtedly essential, we must examine the impact of the measures designed to ensure such security on our health, fundamental rights and freedoms, privacy and dignity. body scanners, as one of the possible technical solutions, are a very serious issue for the safety of citizens in the use of new technologies, and i hope that the commission will finally present an assessment of the impact of body scanners on personal health and fundamental human rights and freedoms. i would point out that the introduction of new technical measures aimed at achieving a high level of security at airports is also essential to establish the boundaries between human rights and security itself, since these measures concern not only the protection of citizens but also the impact on their rights and freedoms. the commission has not yet submitted an impact assessment report confirming that it is the body scanners that will provide effective protection of persons during air travel and therefore there are still doubts as to whether these technical security measures will be truly safe, effective and justified. so, having assessed the current situation, we must continue to work on this sensitive issue.
while this is disappointing, we must acknowledge that the six-year romantic period in ukrainian political life has come to an end. the outcome of the ukrainian presidential election is not a mere coincidence, or even a "mistaken" decision of the ukrainian people. rather, it reflects deeper political problems and failed expectations associated with the orange revolution. commissioner, you said that the new ukrainian president, the new administration, is expected to be active and focused. the country needs serious structural reforms. but we should also say something about the european union. in this situation, if we want to have an impact in the post-soviet space and strengthen the positions of democracy and human rights in this region, we must work with ukraine, and work even more actively than ever before. the european union must give ukraine a vision of a european alternative. this should be achieved primarily through so-called 'soft' measures with a long-term impact, such as promoting economic integration, building more human contacts, and political dialogue with the ukrainian authorities.
today, ukraine is experiencing not only an economic crisis but, in a sense, a political one as well. perhaps this presidential election will help to bring the country out of the political impasse and bring more stability. ukraine is still deciding which civilization model to belong to. should the country cooperate with the east or decide on european integration? choosing is not so easy, especially when the ideological divisions that exist in political life have spilled over into society. the door to europe must be opened to ukraine, and transparent elections are an important step towards consolidating the principles of a democratic state. the ukrainian people have expressed their will by electing a leader of the country. ukraine is a european country which must have the right to decide on europe. the european union must therefore cooperate intensively with ukraine in strengthening democracy in that country and accelerating its integration into the european union.
acting president of the council. - madam president, the internal energy market and the security of energy supply are absolutely linked. this has been gradually accepted in the european union, and in this sense energy security has become a strategic priority for the union. it had its climax, precisely, just over a year ago, with the gas crisis between russia and ukraine. we realised at that time that an internal energy market, an effective market which is fully functioning and interconnected, is an essential condition for a secure energy supply in europe. security of supply is therefore a strategic, essential element which must be improved by increasing energy efficiency, diversifying energy suppliers, sources and supply routes, promoting the union's energy interests vis-à-vis third countries and, ultimately, creating a genuine common energy market which does not yet exist. we shall be able to do so with the help of the treaty of lisbon, which for the first time makes explicit reference to this competence in the union at the level of primary law. it is therefore a matter of making the union stronger in its relations with third countries. and in its relations with third countries, the union must speak with one voice. this was made very clear by the spanish minister for industry, trade and tourism when, on 27 january 2010, he presented the priorities of the spanish presidency to the relevant committee of the european parliament. the linking of the energy islands in the european union to the internal market is therefore an essential objective of the union in the context of the second review of the energy strategy. in july 2009, when the commission presented the baltic energy interconnection action plan, an initiative to foster energy market integration and the development of energy infrastructure in the baltic region, the european council welcomed it as an essential contribution to increasing the union's energy security. the baltic energy market initiative is now part of the wider context of the eu strategy for the baltic sea region, which was one of the major priorities of the swedish presidency. the council of october 2009 then endorsed the initiative, welcomed the progress made in energy infrastructure and interconnections in the baltic area and thus aligned itself with the commission's report.
dear minister, i really want to thank you again for your thought and your answer. however, there was also an aspect of my question which is relevant not only to third countries but also within the european union, namely that some countries of the european union have neither the economic nor the political interest to contribute in one way or another to joint projects. the question i have been asking is whether, under the present presidency, which is the responsibility of spain, it will take on the political role of speaking on behalf of the european union to make these future projects a reality.
acting president of the council. - i have already told you that there is a structured dialogue on this subject and that therefore a series of talks with china on this subject are regularly taking place. we in the council are aware that there are a number of religious practitioners in china who have been threatened or subjected to practices amounting to persecution. this is the case with some tibetan buddhists who practice falun gong; it has also happened with christians, priests and believers and with the lawyers who have defended them on occasion. the council has investigated these cases and referred them to the chinese authorities. we have always stressed that the peaceful practice of religion is a right and can never be regarded as a threat to the state. i would like to reiterate that, with regard to the implementation of religious freedom in china and in the process of evaluating the human rights dialogue, we will look at all ways of increasing our capacity to bring about positive change in this regard.
acting president of the council. - ladies and gentlemen, there is still work to be done, but we are confident in dialogue, in what we can call the impact of dialogue, in its effects. baroness ashton said recently in the european parliament that dialogue on human rights is undoubtedly effective and that we can certainly do so in various fields. we can do this in relation to specific people, for example, the case of the well-known human rights activist liu xiaobo or we can also do it at other levels, political (political dialogues). in any case, we will continue to do so with all our determination in the sense of protecting the totality of human rights - all of them - we must not privilege some over others, because human rights are indivisible and in all cases we will work so that we can deepen and improve the human rights situation in china. the important thing is dialogue and also, of course, to see how changes are made in that direction, and we are convinced that the chinese authorities - our partners - also appreciate the importance of such dialogue.
acting president of the council. - i would like to reiterate, first of all, the european union's support for the united nations global counter-terrorism strategy, which recognises that development, peace, security and human rights are interconnected and mutually reinforcing. the so-called secret detention and rendition programme of the united states, the alleged use by the cia of european countries for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners, has undoubtedly been a source of concern to many members of this house. it was discussed very recently, a few days ago, and, as the presidency said at the time, the council clearly shares the view of parliament that 'it could not be otherwise' that the possible existence of these secret detention centres is not in accordance with international law. and that's still our opinion. that is why it seemed so appropriate to us that president obama should change the policy of the united states with regard to certain arrests or the existence of prisons of the guantanamo type, and we also believe that this change has actually taken place, that there has been a change in the policy of the united states. we have always taken the opportunity to raise our concerns with the united states from the european union. we must welcome the fact that this change has taken place and has been formalised in that joint statement by the european union and the united states of 15 june. so we believe that this is the policy we are going to stick to, and we are going to make it very clear, as long as we have knowledge and evidence that these cases exist. in some cases we have not had such evidence, although it has been discussed, or certain mentions have been made in the media, but in some cases there has been no proven and rigorous knowledge of the existence of such cases. but there is no doubt that the european union has been very clear on this and has always been against such detention centres, whether they are known detention centres, such as guantanamo, or supposedly secret ones, with regard to which we in the european union have always been open to any information which might offer confirmation of their real existence.
acting president of the council. - we - i think we can say it loud and clear - are human rights defenders and therefore have not the right but the obligation to report cases of human rights violations wherever they occur. it is also true that the european union must respect the competences of the member states and therefore certain matters must be investigated by the member states, they cannot be investigated by the european union. the lisbon treaty makes it very clear that, for example, the supervision of intelligence services in the territory of the member states is a matter for the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in any event, the possible existence of such an agreement, of which we do not know all, would in no way prevent the member states from having to fulfil their obligations under international law and under humanitarian law. but of course, madam member, the european union is clearly the place - or one of the places - in the world where human rights are most respected, and the european union has the obligation - and it always has the obligation - to denounce human rights violations, which is a matter for humanity and not just for the individual competent states. that's the line we're gonna stay on and dig deep. and now we have in the european union another even more important reference, the charter of fundamental rights of the citizens of europe.
we ask the media, the media sources, that it was from the media that the conditions for the establishment of a secret prison in lithuania and elsewhere were discovered. how do you see the role of the media in these matters in general, and could there be a wider mobilisation of public opinion to prevent such events from happening again?
madam president, (inaudible) is in a very difficult situation already because of the global recession and the decreasing demand for a number of products worldwide. however, protectionism further hurts international trade and the eu’s interests directly. one of the international trade actors which have enacted additional and counterproductive trade barriers is russia. since the beginning of the financial crisis, russia has imposed a number of so-called ‘temporary’ anti-crisis tariffs on a number of imports, such as meat and milk products, furniture, and also some steel products. another instance which may be recalled is the temporary tariff on drugs that russia has imposed on eu exporters. what is even more alarming is that, on 1 january 2010, a customs union came into existence between russia, belarus and kazakhstan. as a consequence, a total of 30% of the eu’s product lines have seen increased tariffs. the main problem is of course that russia, like belarus and kazakhstan, is not a member of the wto, and is therefore not bound by the wto rules restricting the unilateral increase of import tariffs and other trade-restrictive measures. since russia is not a member of the wto, we do not have a dispute settlement mechanism with them. commissioner, i have two questions for you. how does the commission assess the current eu trade problems with russia, and do we have a particular strategy on how to address the issue of russia’s membership of the wto?
perhaps no one can deny that gambling, like other forms of addiction, causes serious social problems that affect not only the gambler but society as a whole. this is a complex problem. with the rapid expansion of internet access in a global world, a new form of addiction is on the rise, namely online gambling. in the 14 years since 1996, the gambling market has grown dramatically. as the market grows, so does the total income from gambling in the world. until a common european union regulatory framework for online gambling is in place, these figures can only please those in the online gambling business. the european court of justice has held that gambling services must also enjoy freedom of movement and that member states should regulate them themselves in accordance with their own values and traditions. however, lithuania, for example, is among the european union countries that ban online gambling. however, the free movement of services ensures the possibility of gambling, the free access to online gambling, and a ban on gambling throughout the european union will still not protect us from gambling registered elsewhere in the world. it is therefore necessary to establish a common european union regulatory framework for online gambling, taking into account the protection of groups at risk, with particular attention to the protection of minors and the control of cash settlements. for minors, it is not only gambling that is associated with monetary expression, but also games that are addictive, often of an aggressive nature, with aggressive content, that are also a major problem. and this is almost identical to the issue of co2 emissions that we're so often talking about. the internet has no borders, so if we have different rules and regulations for online gambling, it's going to be like the climate change problem, a lot of languages and, unfortunately, little results.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the 2003 hague convention on the international recovery of child and other family maintenance is primarily a child protection instrument, since the vast majority of these claims relate to child maintenance. the purpose of this convention is to help people to facilitate the recovery of benefits and to ensure that claims for maintenance obligations abroad are recognised and effectively enforced. it is welcome that the council has consulted the european parliament and is preparing to take a decision on this convention, given that the free movement of persons within and between eu member states and the increase in divorce rates has led to an increase in crossborder cases of maintenance claims. i would like to emphasise that the adoption of this commission proposal on the recovery of maintenance will make it easier and simpler for a person in the territory of one of the contracting parties to recover maintenance from a person under the jurisdiction of the other contracting party. the adoption of this proposal will therefore provide a legal basis and harmonised framework for relations between the parties to the convention and the member states of the european union in this area.
in writing. − as ordinary eu citizens are the ones who have felt the effects of the economic and financial recession the most, the main challenge for eu policy today is to prevent unemployment from rising, to create more jobs and to create the conditions for economic recovery. the crisis has fundamentally changed european labour markets and it is therefore necessary to ensure that the necessary measures are in place to enable both workers and enterprises to adapt more easily to the changing environment. i support this report because i believe that additional funding is needed for the progress programme to keep people in the labour market and to help small businesses and their development.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is an excellent initiative that will help socially disadvantaged people in europe, including women and young people, who have lost their jobs or who have had no opportunities to enter the labour market during a difficult period, to access financial support and to promote their entrepreneurship. the community employment and social solidarity programme progress is aimed at the most vulnerable groups of people, helping them to create alternative jobs and secure their employment, as unemployment affects the most vulnerable in society in the first place. i am pleased that the european parliament has been able to reach an agreement with the council and the commission on the targeted financing and implementation of this programme in the trialogue. i would like to stress the importance of this initiative, because it is precisely at this time when the unemployment rate is rising that the social exclusion of the most vulnerable is increasing. i would therefore like to note that the successful and effective implementation of the 'progress' programme will achieve the eu's social priorities of creating new jobs and increasing employment, providing more access to the labour market and meeting labour market needs.
in writing. following several exchanges between the european parliament and the european council, the informal trilogue of the last few days resulted in an agreement on the financing of the european microfinance facility. i would like to congratulate all those involved in these negotiations, because the sooner the decision is taken, the sooner the citizens will be able to have this european microfinance instrument at their disposal. i supported today's vote on the joint financing of this european microfinance instrument, which has a volume of 100 million euro: 60 million euro redeployed from progress and 40 million euro from the margins under ceilings. this agreement will, for example, allow european citizens to obtain a loan to buy, via a micro-credit, glasses for their children who have reading problems at school, if their traditional bank does not want to grant them this loan.
in writing. − the eu institutions must act in solidarity to ensure the consistency and integrity of eu policies and to ensure the protection of the rights of our citizens. the debate on the eu-us data transfer agreement has been going on for some time and the institutions are well aware that the european parliament will not agree to terms of the agreement that violate the privacy of personal data and do not ensure effective data protection. the council's decision to approve the agreement with the united states one day before the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon showed that, for the time being, the confidence between the community institutions is only a declaration. as the institution directly representing the citizens, the european parliament must be involved in the negotiations and decisions that directly affect the fundamental rights and freedoms of our citizens. the council itself recognises that the essential issues of the agreement on data transfer have not been properly resolved and i therefore believe that open and comprehensive negotiations with all parties concerned must be opened. the agreement with the us is necessary, but it must not infringe european legal requirements on the protection of personal data.
on behalf of the s&d group in fact, several members of our group have already expressed their views, and i would also like to agree that the issue of venezuela, or freedom of expression, is of great importance not only in latin america but also throughout europe and the world. and if we start looking at violations of freedom of speech with that kind of precision, i think that in some countries of the european union, that's a problem. i really agree with the idea that this issue being on the agenda today is perhaps too urgent, that we have much bigger problems, and greater crime, that exist not only in latin america, but in other countries as well, and so i think this issue is too acute today.
mr president, the democratic and human rights situation in venezuela is in constant decline and we have to fully recognise this. we should also be reminded today that venezuela has been recognised by various human rights organisations as the country with the worst freedom of press situation in latin america. lieutenant colonel chávez has failed in governing venezuela in many respects but he has remained in power only by suppressing the opposition, gaining control of the media and manipulating the electoral process. i would like to react to some colleagues who have already spoken in this chamber before me and to say that our responsibility, our mission, is to support the venezuelan people facing persecution, human rights abuses and arrest by their president.
on behalf of the s&d group like my colleague charles tannock, i would like to say that this is not the first time that we have discussed the terrible human rights situation in burma in this chamber, which unfortunately is always crowded at this time. and i myself, not too long ago, had to talk about it. i hope that after today's debate the european parliament's and the european union's voice will have a greater impact. why would you do that? because for the first time we are talking about human rights in the world, with the treaty of lisbon and the responsibilities that flow from it, among others, the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, catherine ashton, confirmed by parliament. the european union now has a more effective way of directly influencing the situation in burma and in other countries where rights are being violated. and on the eve of the elections in burma, i think the only way we can achieve anything is if we coordinate with the big powers: china, india, the united states, russia.
it is symbolic that 20 years after the fall of the wall that divided europe, we are now talking about 2020 - the europe of the twenty. first of all, i want to support the key priorities of the europe 2020 strategy: knowledge and innovation, a high-employment society, a competitive and sustainable economy. i propose to add two more to these priorities: infrastructure development and an efficient energy policy. while emphasising the strengthening of energy security as one of the main priorities of european energy policy in order to ensure the diversification of energy sources and supply routes, we must not forget the important projects rail batica and via baltica for lithuania alone. i believe that when preparing a new strategy, it is essential to assess the reasons that have prevented the achievement of the objectives of the lisbon strategy. we must not only set the objectives and targets of the new strategy in a realistic way, but also turn the sometimes too long-winded discussions into concrete work with very precise deadlines.
in writing. europe has already learned its lesson in failing to fully implement the lisbon objectives and i hope that it will learn from the mistakes that led to the economic and financial crisis. i would therefore urge that in future more attention be given to job creation first and foremost, and not just to creating jobs, but to working towards high quality full employment, taking into account labour market needs and ensuring social inclusion. secondly, it is essential to fight for gender equality, for the eradication of poverty, especially with regard to the most vulnerable groups, as they are the most affected by poverty in difficult times. i would also like to stress the importance of training systems and the acquisition of new skills, as the dynamic changes in the labour markets of the eu member states require that workers have the skills they need for the labour markets of the future, and therefore investment in internal and long-term training is necessary. the main focus should be on one of the most painful problems facing society - the growing unemployment of young people. if young people are not given the opportunity to enter the labour market, then europe risks losing a whole generation of young people. another very important issue on governance was raised at the informal european council on europe 2020 on 11 february. although the european council is very ambitious in this respect, i would like to call for an even more active involvement of the european parliament, the national parliaments and the various council sectors.
acting president of the council. - mr president, the european union is preparing in geneva, in brussels, in capitals of third countries, the main session of the human rights council this year. the human rights council is a forum for discussion on the human rights situation in all regions of the world and on the efforts of the international community to improve the human rights situation, which is ultimately one of the principles, elements, essential characteristics of the soul of the european union, which gives it its true identity in the world. the presidency of the council has taken very seriously the role it has to play at this very moment. the challenges facing the european union during these sessions of the human rights council have been taken very seriously, and this is shown by the presence of the first vice-president of the spanish government - who, in this case, therefore acts as the representative of the presidency of the council of the european union - maría teresa fernández de la vega, in the so-called 'high-level segment' which will open the thirteenth session of the council. the presidency will therefore be actively involved in the council's work. we will defend the european union's positions on issues with special implications for many member states and, in addition to national initiatives, the european union will present country resolutions. we still think that the council must have instruments to defend human rights, to respond to situations of serious human rights violations, either through a specific mandate/country - as is the case, for example, of burma or the democratic people's republic of korea - or through specific, thematic mandates in a country, as we hope will be the case in the democratic republic of congo. these situations must be monitored by the international community and by the human rights council if we want the council to retain its credibility. one of the items that are going to be on that agenda of the council sessions that are going to start immediately is something that we are going to talk about later, in another item this afternoon, which are the special sessions on gaza and the goldstone report. the european union considers - and we will say this later, too, we will repeat this - that this report is a serious analysis and the european union stressed the importance of proper and serious investigations into possible violations of international human rights law and international humanitarian law. i would like to refer to the problem of the council's review. this year is going to be a crucial year for the negotiations on the review of the council's work, which will take place in 2011 specifically. the european union is just getting started, but it is seeking to consolidate a clear position, a clear strategy of the union so that we have a position that maintains an active participation and commitment to the protection and respect of human rights. in any event, it is clear that the european union will continue to defend, as it has always done, the independence of the office of the united nations high commissioner for human rights, the independence of the special procedures, the participation of non-governmental organisations in the human rights council, the council's capacity to deal with key and serious human rights violations, and the establishment of country mandates. spain, the spanish presidency, is aware that it has assumed the rotating presidency at a crucial moment for the union, for the united nations, to protect, to promote human rights in the world. the lisbon treaty has also opened a new phase in this, as in so many other things, a new phase in the union's external action, and we hope that joint work under the leadership of the high representative will therefore make the european union's voice more visible, stronger, clearer in defending the basic principles of the work of the human rights council, and that this phase towards a more active, transparent and efficient council will also benefit from this transitional phase, precisely because the union is living under a presidency - which in this case i represent - that will do everything possible to ensure that the path of the union and that of the council from now on lead to the same objective, which is the promotion and protection of human rights in the world.
member of the commission. − mr president, i find it very appropriate that i am here today for the first time on the issue of human rights, which fits the priorities of my portfolio so well. the commission very much subscribes to the presentation by the spanish presidency, and i would like to add two sets of remarks to what has been presented here with regard to the priorities of the forthcoming session and how the eu would align with those priorities. the first concerns thematic issues. the eu and the group of latin american countries are jointly working on a draft resolution on the rights of the child, with a specific focus on the fight against sexual violence against children. the commission is very concerned at the increase in sexual violence in zones of conflict and crisis situations and the spillover on the most vulnerable, especially children. the eu will, in accordance with the european consensus on humanitarian aid, ensure that this is properly addressed in the resolution. the eu would also actively participate in a panel on the rights of persons with disabilities. there is a very clear link with our eu internal policies, as we will soon conclude the accession process to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. another thematic area of particular interest is the right to food, which is consistent with the achievement of the millennium development goals, as well as the human rights of internally displaced persons who, unlike refugees, are not adequately protected by international conventions, and we will press on in connection with this point. the second remark i would like to make concerns the support from the eu for the adoption by the plenary of the reports of the universal periodic reviews concerning states that went through this process in december. this is a very important moment, in which the states reviewed can make public the commitments that they make for the improvement of the human rights situation. at the same time, states may choose to request international assistance for the implementation of these commitments. the commission continues to remain very open to discussing with partners ways and means to support the implementation of the recommendations of these reviews. very critical, as already stressed by the spanish presidency, is the fact that the impact of this process depends first and foremost on the transparency and openness displayed by eu member states, because we can only be effective by leading by our own example.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i welcome the fact that the european parliament is going to adopt a resolution on the upcoming session of the human rights council. i also welcome the fact that the european parliament will be sending a delegation to the human rights council, since our recommendations to the eu council are usually tabled on how to improve the work of the human rights council and strengthen the role of the european union in it. this 13th session is the most important one to take place in 2010, and it will include high-level meetings and discussions with government ministers on a number of important issues already mentioned by the commissioner and the minister, such as, for example, the impact of the global financial crisis on the human rights situation worldwide. we welcome the fact that our american partners are heavily engaged in the work of the human rights council. however, we should note with concern that some countries are trying to hijack the whole process and undermine the credibility of the human rights council. iran has signalled that it might run in the elections for a place on the council. it would be highly regrettable if iran was elected, as this would in fact increase the number of countries with problematic human rights records on the council. the human rights council would then risk becoming as defunct and inefficient as its predecessor, the commission on human rights. in other words, the credibility of the human rights council as such is at stake, and we should therefore do everything we can to maintain the human rights council’s authority.
conflicts and misunderstandings concerning polish minority organisations in belarus must be resolved by the authorities immediately and democratically, without the use of force and coercion. at the same time, i would strongly support the view of the honourable commissioner that there is a need to continue to work together and to maintain contacts between people. tomorrow, the first official delegation of the european parliament in many years will leave for belarus. we expect open discussions with both the opposition and the government. the experience gained in minsk from the conflict and belarus' participation in the euronest parliamentary assembly could help to improve the european union's relations with belarus. the more important litmus test for the relationship is the local elections in two months' time. this time, it should not be a no-choice election, with the media in one blow, the opposition silenced and ignored, almost 100 percent of voters supporting one political force after an uncontrolled vote count, and, in the end, mps are actually appointed, not elected.
the principle of gender equality is of crucial importance for the european union in achieving its objectives of growth, employment and social cohesion. the european union has made great progress in implementing the beijing agenda, but we cannot be completely satisfied with the current situation. the report on the implementation of the beijing platform for action showed that the objectives of the platform for action for the european union have not yet been achieved. it is essential that the beijing indicators are used to develop a gender perspective in the national reform programmes as well as in the national reports on social protection and social inclusion. there is still a lack of sufficient reliable and comparable data at both national and eu levels for the identification of social indicators, including women's poverty, violence against women, institutional mechanisms. one of the tasks of the european institute for gender equality is to work with comparable data. the institute's work programme would be particularly useful in achieving the targets set in beijing. i am convinced that institutional mechanisms for gender equality need to be strengthened in times of economic recession.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to refer to the situation of national minorities in lithuania, whose rights are constantly being diminished. in lithuania, in areas of dense national minority population, there is a widespread order to remove bilingual information boards that have been present for 20 years. minority schools have been cut back and are being prepared to close as part of the so-called reform. the original spelling of names cannot be used on identity documents. moreover, the poles in lithuania are having difficulty reclaiming land seized by the communist system, and recently even the cultural minority has been hit. the oldest polish national song and dance team has had its funding cut four times by many government institutions and has lost three jobs, leaving only one. the rights of national minorities in lithuania should be respected as the union demands in its motto 'united in diversity'.
i would like to stress in particular my support for ukraine's democratic elections and the freedom of its people to express their will. i know ukraine well and i see that not only the authorities but also the society itself is actively taking the path of democracy and creating democratic institutions. it is also hoped that these elections will bring ukraine closer to the european union and perhaps even build a stronger bridge between the european union and russia. and i am very pleased that perhaps even a post-soviet country will be more likely to enter into a visa-free zone with the european union.
mr president, i supported the resolution and, as one of the draftsmen of this document, i would like to make a few points on the goldstone report, the issue which is addressed in the resolution. the goldstone report has once again showed that investigations carried out by the warring parties themselves are hardly ever impartial and objective. the report is rather explicit that neither side has conducted adequate and effective investigations of alleged violations of the laws of war by its forces. also, we should welcome the fact that the report has been revised recently and made less controversial, with less bitter language, and is therefore more acceptable. and the main lesson we should learn from this is that we should put effort into making the european union more involved in the process, not only when it comes to the investigation of alleged crimes, but in a pro-active, preventive way as a party to the middle east quartet.
the decision on new rules for fisheries is very welcome. fish, like other animals, have no territorial boundaries and no limits, so whether one country takes better care of them or takes worse care of them is a matter of endless debate. in view of the new scientific research which shows that a significant number of fish species are today on the verge of extinction. and the need for a common solution becomes even more apparent. and not just in the european union, but in the world. this move by the european union is therefore to be welcomed as a good example for other third countries. i hope that this decision, which is also responsible for the overall analysis, will help both fisheries businesses and countries, regardless of their size. and i also hope that this decision will help to save endangered species. and i want to give you my full support.
i voted in favour of the resolution on the guidelines for the green paper on the reform of the common fisheries policy. i hope that today's vote by the european parliament has contributed to the conservation of fish stocks and a healthy marine environment. the reform of the common fisheries policy is also a priority. the european parliament is aware that 27% of fish species are close to extinction and are threatened with extinction without restrictive fishing. we also know that it is possible to increase fish stocks by 86 percent if the fish were not so drastically depleted. we also know that 18 percent of the world's fish stocks are in poor condition, and scientists recommend that we stop fishing altogether. i hope and i hope very much that the european union will have the political will not only to design reform, but also to implement it.
in writing. − i supported this report. the european union has gained new powers on the basis of the lisbon treaty and must ensure that those powers are fully and effectively used. the eu competence is strengthened in the field of energy policy, and the creation of a common energy market is a priority task for the european commission. however, the european energy policy cannot be effectively promoted without having adequate and clear information about existing and planned energy infrastructure and projects in the european union. the new regulation is a very important piece of legislation in the eu energy policy and i very much hope that it can work in practice. the european energy policy cannot be effectively promoted without having adequate and clear information about existing and planned energy infrastructure in the european union. as we know, under the old regulation many member states did not comply with the reporting obligations and this should not be the case with the new regulation. the european commission, as the guardian of the eu treaty, must ensure that all member states comply with the provisions of the regulation and timely submit all necessary information on the expected developments in energy infrastructure.
in writing. − i support this resolution and fully agree with the observations contained therein. i am pleased that the presidential elections reflected the considerable progress made by ukraine and were better than previous elections, in particular with regard to respect for civil and political rights, including freedom of assembly, association and expression. the compliance with international electoral standards shows that ukraine is on the path towards a mature democracy and closer cooperation with the eu based on mutual respect for the eu's core values. ukraine should be encouraged to participate actively in the eastern partnership and its efforts to promote democracy and respect for the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as its commitment to a market economy, sustainable development and good governance, should be supported.
in writing. − i am one of the drafters of this resolution and therefore voted in favour of the objectives set out in this resolution. after the presidential elections, ukraine must move closer to the european union. i am pleased that ukraine is firmly on the path to democracy and that it is aware of its rightful place in the community of european democracies. the door to europe should be open to ukraine. transparent elections are an important step in consolidating the principles of a democratic state. although the observers announced their results, the ukrainian presidential elections met high quality standards and democratic principles, the ukrainian authorities should nevertheless adopt a clear electoral code. the president of the republic of moldova shall be elected by the national assembly of the republic of moldova on the basis of a multi-party system. it is of great importance that ukraine participates in the eastern partnership and the euronest parliamentary assembly, in cooperation with the european parliament. ukraine is a european country today, which has the right to decide on europe. the european union needs to work intensively with ukraine to strengthen the democratic process and its integration into the european union.
in writing. − the presidential elections in ukraine were held in accordance with international electoral standards. the country has taken a step towards european democracy. this is a confirmation of ukraine's growing sense of belonging to the community of european democracies. we hope that the new ukrainian president will be a reliable partner with whom we can work together to promote stability and economic development in eastern europe together with other neighbouring countries. one of the most important practical steps in the eu's relations with ukraine is the simplification of the visa regime, with the ultimate aim of visa liberalisation for ukrainian citizens travelling to the eu. i voted in favour of this resolution because it recognises the positive developments in such an important neighbour of the eu, although there are still many difficulties and tensions between the various authorities in this country.
in writing. human rights are still violated in many countries and it is unfortunate that grave violations are sometimes not addressed timely and properly by the international community. we are lacking a coordinated approach on the international stage . the eu's role as a global player has increased in recent decades and the newly established european external action service under the lisbon treaty could be instrumental in helping the union to act more effectively to meet global challenges and to address human rights violations in a more coherent, consistent and efficient manner. the eu now has a great opportunity to strengthen its role in the un human rights council and should use it fully to increase the visibility and credibility of eu actions in the area of human rights.
in writing. − with regard to human rights at all levels and in all areas of the eu, it is important to stress that our duty as meps is not only to criticise and draft resolutions on third countries, but also to monitor eu member states closely, drawing attention to even the slightest negative phenomena that violate human rights. in the event of a breach of human rights, the ep draws up a resolution addressed to the party concerned. to criticize others, we must first prevent human rights violations within the eu, and then we can criticize others and try to help them as much as possible.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because we need to further develop the gender equality perspective across the european union. the european commission should develop an action strategy for the guidelines on equality between women and men, taking into account the economic and financial crisis, sustainable development, as well as the current priorities of the guidelines, equal economic independence for men and women, reconciliation of work, family and private life, equal participation of women and men in decision-making. the current lack of data is particularly marked in the areas of gender equality, violence against women, institutional mechanisms. it is very important that member states cooperate as closely as possible with the european institute for gender equality, one of whose tasks is to work with comparable data. the institute will produce statistics, will carry out studies to provide an analysis of gender equality issues, will carry out studies on indicator statistics, on data explanations. the objectives set out in the institute's work programme would be particularly helpful in achieving the targets set in beijing.
in writing. - i would like to express my full support for the meps and at the same time my concern that various benefits are being increased, both for meps and for staff, especially in times of crisis. i would like to draw particular attention to those expenditure lines which are difficult to control or not at all controllable. it is these lines of expenditure that should not be increased in times of crisis.
in writing. − the fisheries sector in europe is going through a difficult period. fishermen are losing their only source of livelihood, and this is particularly true in those eu regions where there are few social and economic alternatives. i therefore fully support the commission's proposal in the green paper that a fundamental and comprehensive reform of the fisheries policy is necessary to adapt the sector to the changing market. it is a pity that, more than 27 years after the creation of the common fisheries policy, the sector is not functioning as it should and the way it is dealing with the problems is rather sluggish. the problems that were relevant in 2002 have persisted and have been exacerbated by recent developments in the economic crisis and the impact of climate change on fish stocks. the priorities of the overall reform of fisheries must continue to be the restoration of stocks, sustainable management and the maintenance of fishermen's livelihoods. fisheries are of vital importance to the eu as a whole and should not be treated as an activity but as a sector that is a direct source of employment.
the travel market has developed very dynamically over the last two decades. more and more people are self-completing their trips by purchasing services from different operators and service providers. however, the provisions of the current directive do not apply to these new packages, which means that our citizens are not travelling safely. i believe that the revision of the directive requires that its scope be defined as precisely as possible and that we should not allow rigid rules to leave our citizens without adequate protection. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on the same day. over the past decade, more than 70 airlines have gone bankrupt, leaving travelers in the dark. i therefore believe that this issue must be clearly emphasised in the review of the provisions of the directive.
in fact, perhaps no one today doubts that microenterprises must be fully encouraged and supported, and i believe that the best way forward is to reduce taxes as much as possible in each member state of the european union, as well as simplifying the requirements for registration, deregistration and many other things. there was a thought today that in order to take a loan from a bank, you're still going to have to provide some information and not just statements, but you're going to have to provide some additional information for the banks to know. i am in favour of the fact that the state should also know what processes are going on, and therefore, as far as the reporting itself is concerned, i think it is very important, however, to simplify these reports, but in a way that does not violate the basic requirements of transparency and corporate principles.
as a shadow rapporteur, i would first like to congratulate my colleague sophia in't veld on her excellent report. i think the report has very clearly highlighted the areas to which the commission should pay particular attention. firstly, it is the control of state aid measures. during the crisis, the european commission gave member states the option of exclusive application of state aid measures. as such measures were introduced in a hurry, the commission must examine whether they were used for their intended purpose and whether they were productive, and whether the crisis did not provoke protectionist reactions in the member states, since protectionism and fragmentation of the single market are harmful to competition and only weaken the european union's position in the global economy. i am also pleased that the rapporteur has taken account of the itre committee's opinion on the problems of the internal energy market in the european union, and in particular that it is impossible to ensure the competitiveness and the interoperability of this market as long as there are energy islands and no interconnected and properly functioning energy infrastructure.
member of the commission. − mr president, as the rapporteur pointed out, the aim of this proposal is to facilitate movement within the schengen area for third-country nationals, who are legally residing in one of the member states on the basis of a long-stay or ‘d’ visa. according to the current schengen acquis, third-country nationals who hold a residence permit can travel freely within the schengen area because the residence permit is equivalent to a visa. however, there has been a recent trend in member states not to convert long-stay visas into residence permits upon arrival. that is why we are having this discussion here today; obviously the commission, the council and the parliament had to find a solution to the problem. the legal and practical situation has considerable negative consequences for third-country nationals legally staying in our member states on the basis of a d visa. these persons can neither legally travel to another country nor can they transit through the territory of another country when they want to return to their country of origin. the absurdity of this situation was illustrated by the example that the rapporteur, mr coelho, raised. the best solution would, of course, be that all member states issue the necessary residence permits and that they do this in time. unfortunately this is not the situation today, and therefore we have the present proposal which aims at extending the principle of equivalence between a residence permit and short-stay visas to long-stay d visas. a third-country national holding a long-stay d visa issued by a member state will thereby be able to travel to the other member states for three months in any half year under the same conditions as the holder of a residence permit. this would restore the basic philosophy underlying the creation of an area without internal borders, namely that the person can travel around in the schengen area for short stays with the documents based on which he or she is legally present in a member state. i was very pleased to learn that mr carlos coelho had expressed his support for this proposal from the very beginning and the rapporteur, together with the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the committee on legal affairs, has understood that action needs to be taken in order to facilitate the life of third-country nationals, because we want to encourage people legally residing in our area. i want to thank the rapporteur for his constructive approach to this. i do not need to remind you that we have to find a solution quickly, especially due to the visa code which will be applicable from the 5 april this year and will abolish the so-called d+c visas which were intended to partly remedy the situation of d visa holders. i believe that the final text on the draft regulation satisfied all the parties since the compromise text was agreed between all the institutions. in order to tackle some of the concerns expressed by the european parliament and the member states – for instance concerning security – several amendments have been made to the initial text. to give a few examples, the proposal shortens the period of validity for long-stay visas. they should have a period of validity of no more than one year. after this one year the proposal established the obligation for member states to issue a residence permit. the requirement of systematic checks in the schengen information system (sis) is also reinforced. where a member state considers issuing a residence permit or a d visa, the responsible authority should systematically carry out a search in the schengen information system in order to avoid a situation where we have an alert at the same time as a long-stay visa. in order to give a response to the security concerns regarding biometrics – and this is of course a major issue for many member states – a political declaration has, as you know, been attached to the draft regulation in which the commission is invited to study the possibility of the use of biometric identifiers with respect to long-stay visas and to present the results in the study to this plenary and the council by 21 july 2011. the commission also accepts that a reporting obligation has been included in the draft regulation on the application. to conclude, in order to find a compromise response to the major concern of the european parliament concerning the guarantee for high-level data protection in cases where an alert has been issued in the sis, a joint declaration has been agreed. the commission is invited by the council and the european parliament to present the necessary legislative proposals amending the relevant data-protection provision for the schengen convention if there are further substantial delays in implementing the sis ii that go beyond 2012. i believe that, with these changes, we have reached a reasonable, well-balanced solution that will considerably facilitate the lives of the third-country nationals that are residing legally in our countries. it will also very much correspond to the philosophy of a europe without internal borders. i want to thank once again the libe committee, the juri committee and the rapporteur for their very constructive approach to this.
on behalf of the s&d group i congratulate the rapporteur, mr coelho, on the preparation of this report and also agree with the importance of ensuring as soon as possible the free movement of third-country nationals legally present in a member state on long-stay visas within the schengen area. according to current practice in the member states, the process of replacing a long-stay visa with a residence permit for third-country nationals takes a considerable amount of time for a variety of reasons. i could cite several examples from the european union, including my own country, lithuania, where, for example, a long-distance driver who has obtained a d visa is unable to carry out his direct duties. the current practice in this area infringes the legitimate expectations of third-country nationals coming to the european union to work or study. member states should also take appropriate measures to simplify the procedure for issuing visas. a long-stay visa should have the same effect on the movement of persons within the schengen area without internal borders as a residence permit. the key issue here is not the length of time a d visa holder can travel to another member state, but the possibility of better meeting his or her needs in the schengen area itself. i therefore support the proposal that a third-country national holding a long-stay visa issued by a member state may travel to another member state for 3 months in any 6-month period under the same conditions as a residence permit holder. at the same time, it is essential to ensure that the simplified movement of third-country nationals through the schengen area does not create additional threats to the security of member states. i therefore call for the adoption of this amended regulation without delay.
madam president, i supported this report. effective consumer enforcement policy is central to the functioning of the single market. we need to have a real and well-functioning internal market with a high level of consumer protection, which, unfortunately, is not the case today. we have the legislation in place, but it is not enforced properly in the member states. most importantly, our consumers do not feel safe because they do not know the rules and, in many cases, the compensation mechanisms are not working in the way they should. the commission should increase its efforts, ensuring that member states apply directives correctly and that citizens are informed about their rights and, most importantly, that they are able to exercise those rights in practice.
i'm here to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that i support the good initiative. i am particularly in favour of strengthening and expanding the solvit networks. no funds shall be set aside to disseminate information on the activities and possibilities of this european structure through national media, front pages or prime time broadcasts. i can assure you all, for now, that there is a double standard, unequal application of the law and unequal penalties even for the same activity. thank you, that's exactly what i wanted to point out.
i welcome the initiative, and i believe it can help people who are involved in national businesses. however, without a clear monitoring of the situation in the highly regulated internal market and legal framework, i doubt whether it will be possible to effectively assist the players in this market, irrespective of its size and the level of service consumption. it is necessary to provide for strict penalties where the analysis carried out reveals clear infringements. it is essential to use the practice of handling complaints at international level, as well as to establish criteria. unfortunately, sad statistics in my country show that in eight out of 10 cases of international violations already under consideration, the violations were committed by state institutions or courts. i therefore think that without a clear regulation of penalties, the desired result will not be possible. i'd like to get some attention.
in writing. − today we voted on three applications for support from the european globalisation adjustment fund. i supported all three applications because i believe that the support provided by this fund is particularly needed by our people at this time. in may 2009, the european commission authorised, under exceptional circumstances, a derogation from the regulation and, in the light of the situation created by the economic and financial crisis, the granting of aid to people who had lost their jobs. it is very regrettable that some member states with very high unemployment and poverty levels are unable to apply for aid in time and to take advantage of the fund's opportunities to provide aid to the unemployed in a timely manner. i think the european commission should also look at whether the support from the fund is being used effectively and whether it brings real added value to the people for whom it is intended.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the financial assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) will help redundant workers to return and reintegrate into the labour market. during the financial and economic crisis, the unemployment rate in lithuania increased significantly over 12 months, and it is therefore necessary to adapt to the consequences of the crisis and to provide at least temporary financial assistance in order to provide jobs for the dismissed employees of snaigė. in this case, it is not a few employees who have been made redundant, but a large number of people, i.e. about 651 employees, who form the age group 25-54. i am pleased that the much awaited vote on the granting of temporary financial assistance took place today, as this sensitive issue for the lithuanian company and its dismissed employees was delayed, as some of the employees of the company lost their jobs as early as november 2008. i hope that the funds voted today will be allocated in a targeted and efficient manner.
in writing. − mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome this initiative to support workers in companies who have been affected by the process of globalisation. i am fully in favour of this and i am glad that the lithuanian people will be helped in this case. in general, i think that the total amount of this fund should be increased even several times, with a reduction in appropriations elsewhere. i am convinced that such a fund should cover business owners. and most of the time, they're hurt so badly that they can't recover and start a new business. there are many cases where business owners suffer more than employees: by taking risks in doing business, creating jobs, paying taxes, they are not only mortgaging their shares, but also their personal assets. it would therefore be entirely appropriate to examine, as is the case now, the possibility of providing aid to business owners who have been affected by globalisation and the global economic crisis on a case-by-case basis.
in writing. − i am pleased that today's vote on the allocation of funds from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to provide financial assistance of eur 1 118 893 to redundant workers in lithuania from 128 enterprises in the construction sector took place. the construction sector in lithuania is experiencing difficult times, as the financial and economic crisis has greatly reduced the demand for construction, as during the recession it is very difficult for lithuanian citizens to obtain financial credits for building or buying housing. i voted in favour of this report because this eu financial support will help people who have become hostages of globalisation to find work and to re-enter the labour market, and will help them to break free from the pressures of the crisis. in this context, it is therefore necessary to show solidarity with workers who are made redundant as a result of the changes in the global economy and the reduction in jobs in certain sectors caused by the financial crisis.
in writing. − i fully support this initiative and vote in favour of helping workers in construction companies who have been affected by the current global crisis and the process of globalisation. i'm sure we're all collectively responsible for not being able to stop the real estate and construction companies from bursting. it was clear that this would lead to a crisis. it is the duty of politicians to serve the people and to stop the evils. in voting in favour of this proposal, i would therefore propose and ask for an increase in financial assistance, because for the hundreds of affected companies, employing tens of thousands of people, one million euros is just a drop in the bucket. i hear from people who work in these very companies that people no longer believe in their own country or in the european union. therefore, increasing this type of support would improve the image of the european union itself and strengthen confidence in the nation states.
in writing. − i fully support the two reports by reimer böge that have been adopted by parliament on financial support for redundant workers in lithuania from the european globalisation adjustment fund, and i am grateful to other colleagues who supported them. unfortunately, i was late for this vote because on my way to the plenary chamber the lift was not working. both reports – on the situation in the construction sector and on the company snaigė – represent the most acute unemployment cases in lithuania. the eu financial support will alleviate the hardships lithuanian workers are facing. the construction sector is one of the hardest hit in lithuania. now more than a hundred companies have been forced into bankruptcy. the eur 1.1 million will target almost 1 000 workers in this highly sensitive and hard-hit sector. the situation is very similar with snaigė – the support of eur 258 000 from the egf would target 650 redundancies in a city that has one of the highest unemployment rates – nearing 20% now. even though this might be only the tip of the iceberg of the unemployment problem in lithuania, the financial support will help those in most need.
in writing. − madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that we are trying to take an active interest in protecting consumer rights. but this has been going on for years, and we still haven't been able to put in place a perfect mechanism, to tighten the mandatory conditions for implementing these tasks at national level. sometimes it seems like a game or a hypocrisy. until we have strictly regulated the activities of monopoly organisations in whatever field, so that their profits are clearly limited and the costs, salaries and bonuses of their activities strictly controlled: i.e. the supply of raw materials, production, product supply, then the expectation of cheap and high quality goods or services for consumers is hard to imagine. with my considerable experience in this field, i am prepared to work together on this matter.
in writing. − to enjoy the benefits of the internal market, consumers must have an effective means of redress following misapplication of internal market law. the solvit network was created to guarantee quick redress without having to use judicial proceedings. i believe that this network could be of great use but at the moment it is not functioning effectively and is not using its potential to the full. many of our citizens and small businesses are unaware of such a network. thus i believe that member states should put greater efforts and means into promoting solvit and raising awareness amongst citizens and businesses. moreover, some solvit centres receive more cases than they are able to resolve because the centres are understaffed. i believe that member states need to strengthen the role of national solvit centres by ensuring cooperation among national, regional and local authorities and to engage into an active exchange of views and best practices with other member states in order to fully exploit the potential of the solvit network.
in writing. − mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support this initiative and fully support the strengthening of the solvit networks and the development of their activities. no funds shall be set aside to disseminate information on the activities and possibilities of this european structure through national media outlets on the front page or in the most watched programmes. i can assure you all, for now, that there is a double standard, a disparate application of the law, and even disparate penalties for the same activity.
in writing. − the eu 2020 strategy is a promising document. there has been much talk of an eu economic recovery in recent times, but for many member states the crisis is far from over. public talk of the crisis is limited to the state of public finances, although unemployment is rising very rapidly and has already reached a critical point in some member states. it is strange to hear high-ranking eu officials warmly praise some governments for doing a great job, when every month in those countries the unemployment rate is rising catastrophically, social security is being reduced, and the number of people living below the poverty line is increasing. people in such countries find it very difficult to understand the european union's policy on poverty reduction or poverty reduction in the social field. i think that governments that have failed to solve at least the problem of stabilizing unemployment should not be praised unnecessarily. the european commission should take greater responsibility and responsibly monitor the implementation of national governments' crisis management plans, especially in the area of social reforms, and assess very clearly the impact of such reforms on people.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the new amendments to this regulation, as third-country nationals with long-term visas have until now faced problems with restrictions on free movement. they were unable to travel freely between the member states of the european union and even had difficulty returning to their home countries. this regulation extends the scope of the principle of equivalence between residence permits and long-stay visas issued by member states fully implementing the schengen acquis governing long-stay visas. it should be underlined that a long-term visa should have the same effect on free movement within the schengen area without internal borders as a residence permit. i would like to stress that it is essential that the simplification of the movement of third-country nationals within the schengen area does not compromise the security guarantees in the member states. the implementation of this regulation should not reduce security, as it provides for an obligation for states to check the data of a person in the schengen information system and, if necessary, to consult other eu countries before issuing a long-term visa. until now, this has been done only by issuing a residence permit.
in writing. − i voted for this report. an effectively working internal market is essential for the creation of a stable and innovative economic environment. however, the internal market cannot function effectively without correctly transposed, applied and enforced community rules. unfortunately, the number of infringement proceedings remains too high in the member states. such a situation distorts the internal market and leaves customers without adequate protection. the european parliament in 2008 called on the commission to provide more detailed information on the directives which have not been implemented in the member states, and i very much hope that the commission will be able to present such information in the nearest future.
acting president of the council. - mr president, the debate we have had on the roma population, on the forthcoming cordoba summit, makes it clear once again that the social and economic integration of the roma is a problem of a european dimension and that it therefore requires a european strategy. and that is precisely what we intend to do, after some progress has been made, not enough, at the cordoba summit, which has been mentioned so many times. a strategy which must be based on a work plan which the council intends to follow and which must be based on the overall programme envisaged by the trio - a programme which therefore has a long-range scope - a programme of action, a programme of work, which must have as one of its essential tools, without doubt, the structural funds - the most powerful tool europe has for social cohesion - and which must be projected into specific actions. some of these actions, in my view, should be actions that are designed to address specific problems of the roma population - problems of discrimination suffered by the roma population as such - for example, the problem of access to public services or employment. or the problem of roma women, who suffer particularly from poverty, who suffer from problems of access to housing and problems of discrimination or violence. or the case of young roma, whose lack of qualifications makes it even more difficult for them to find employment in the current economic crisis. or the problem of children: gypsy children - it has been said - have a life expectancy of ten years less than the average of all european children. but at the same time, we must also act from a general point of view with actions that favour the roma population itself, because as one of the most discriminated populations, any anti-discrimination policy will favour them. this is the case with action against gender violence, which is why it is so important to have this directive as soon as possible, the directive on the protection against gender violence, which will particularly favour roma women, or the directive on non-discrimination, which will particularly favour roma people. and all this in a completely paternalistic way, because the first thing to be done with regard to the roma population is to respect their identity and their cultural characteristics.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the house for the many suggestions and proposals that have been made. they will be taken on board by commissioner andor and myself when we present our communication before the summit. in this communication it will also be made very clear that the commission cannot and will not accept that the roma are discriminated against and excluded from our society because of their ethnicity. now, we do have instruments; we do have policies. the question is, how do we utilise them? how do we mainstream the question and the problems of the roma in these instruments and policies? i believe that we do not need a roma directive or a roma fund. what we need is to take roma issues fully into account when we apply eu law and when we implement eu funds. the key to this – and it has been said by many of you – is partnership and the cooperation of all the key actors. the commission pursues this approach in the european platform for roma inclusion and with its internal procedures. but i would also like to underline very clearly that, while, of course, roma exclusion has a lot to do with fundamental rights, mostly it has to do with social and economic issues. for instance, i would like to quote the world bank’s study on the economic cost of roma exclusion and to see that this is a very important piece of evidence showing that we need to find solutions for the sake of our society in general. so to apply the instruments which we have in the most effective way will need a strategic approach, of course – mainstream, as some of you have said. this approach is based on cooperation, on mobilisation of the necessary resources and on a strategy learning from success as well as from failure. what we must avoid doing is creating a strategy which exists only on paper. results are needed; results which lead to the integration of roma into mainstream schools. i have heard many of you speaking about schooling. i am looking forward to seeing the details of our action on pre-schooling, how this has been working out. the mainstream labour market; here my colleague mr andor is going to look for precise targets to be achieved, and the mainstream society which is the responsibility of all our policies.
in writing. i would like to emphasise that the roma issue has become part of european human rights policy as the european union and the member states share responsibility for non-discrimination and integration of roma in society. the second roma congress in cordoba is therefore an occasion to discuss the social problems of the roma and the ways in which they can be solved. i am pleased that spain, as the presidency of the council of the eu, is organising this congress, because it is necessary to raise and acknowledge the existing roma problems. i would like to emphasise that in a democratic and free society it is unacceptable for certain people to be excluded from society and for the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals to be openly violated. roma communities face racist attacks, lack of access to all social and public services, and there is a huge gap in living conditions and education. it is also necessary to take into account that roma face not only direct discrimination but also invisible, indirect discrimination, such as the exclusion of roma from employment and, at the same time, from social life. i therefore agree that it is necessary to call on the european commission to encourage member states, regions and local authorities to better implement eu projects for roma. i would also urge the commission to take concrete actions and initiatives to combat direct and indirect discrimination against roma in europe.
member of the commission. − mrs blinkevičiūtė raises a very important question on pension reform, which is a key issue for the coming years, given the challenges we have to face together: the ageing population, the sustainability of public finances and the mobility of workers in particular. in addition, pension funds are important institutional investors. the financial crisis has revealed vulnerabilities in the design of certain pension schemes and, ladies and gentlemen, in the wake of the de la rosière report, we are going to take a number of initiatives. president barroso announced policy guidelines to the european parliament on this issue. we will present a green paper on pensions in the course of 2010, which will encourage a thorough discussion on the regulation of private pension funds. in this context, a revision of the directive on the activities and supervision of occupational pension institutions could be considered. the commission remains committed to strengthening the internal market in the area of pension funds. the revision of the directive would also cover the solvency rules for pension funds. this, mr president, is in line with a request made by the european parliament during the negotiations on the solvency ii directive. i would add, in order to avoid any ambiguity on this very important subject which affects citizens, that the commission will be very careful to respect, in the name of subsidiarity, the choices made in a large number of member states concerning their attachment to the system of shared retirement.
thank you, commissioner, for your reply and we would really like to see the european commission present a green paper on pensions as soon as possible, because in many countries of the european union this is a particularly pressing issue. because in some countries, like my country lithuania, pensions were cut and so low because that was the reality in the current economic and financial situation. but i would like to ask you, commissioner, one more question: tell me why the european commission pays so little attention in the european union strategy 2020 to the reliability, stability and security of pensions, because we have to assess the current situation on the labour market, the current demographic situation and, indeed, this would be one of the most important questions about what pensions people will receive after 10 years.
member of the commission. − certainly, when i speak about the societal role of sport, matters concerning education and training are very important, and i think that education is even more important for our common european identity. this will certainly be taken into account when we formulate our more permanent programme on sport.
vice-president of the commission. − within the framework of the third european action programme on road safety up to 2010, a number of actions were implemented to combat speeding, drug and drink driving as well as to improve road infrastructure. many of those actions have involved the european parliament under the codecision procedure. but, of course, further efforts are needed. the commission is currently working on the european road safety strategy for the next decade. it will stress the importance of proper enforcement and sanctions for dangerous behaviour, in particular drink driving and excessive speed. citizens of member states cannot understand why other eu nationals are not sanctioned when they violate the law. for this reason it is urgent to resume discussions on the proposals for a directive on cross-border enforcement, which received the full support of the european parliament but was blocked by the council. the commission is determined to move forward with this proposal. besides control and sanctions, education and awareness are areas to which the commission will give strong emphasis. specific actions should be proposed regarding alcohol and speed, such as alcohol locks in certain vehicles or more stringent requirements for novice drivers. drug driving is an increasing problem. the commission expects the ongoing druid research project to provide ideas for concrete action. as far as infrastructure is concerned, the european parliament and the council have adopted legislation regarding safe management and safety requirements for roads and tunnels of the trans-european network. the commission, of course, will closely follow their proper implementation by the member states. but safety of road infrastructure is not limited to the major ten roads; 56% of road deaths occur on rural roads. so the commission will therefore examine the extension of current legislation on safe management to the secondary road network of member states. finally, the commission will also verify that infrastructure projects receiving eu funding or loans take road safety requirements into account. i must also underline that road safety is a shared responsibility between the eu institutions, member states, local and regional bodies, associations and, of course, citizens. to reach maximum efficiency, solutions must respond to concrete problems on the ground. the next european road safety strategy will propose a number of actions based on this principle. its main goal is to establish a common european road safety area which will form part of a single european transport area where all eu citizens will benefit from the same level of safety all over europe.
vice-president of the commission. − of course i can only share your concern. the problem with drugs, as you know very well, is that, although we have relatively developed technology to find drivers who are under the influence of alcohol, it is much more difficult to detect the influence of drugs. we really must carry out research to find the necessary technology, because today it is only a visible observation by the police, who then send people for medical testing, and only then can it become clear that there is a problem. we do of course need more.
thank you for your suggestions on how to solve this problem. i'd like to ask you, do you think that using cell phones while driving is one of the reasons that in some studies, it's been equated to having a slower reaction rate, just like being intoxicated with alcohol and drugs? another issue is heavy goods transport. it's an object of increased risk, especially in the dark, and also heavy transportation, you know very well, worsens the condition of the roads, which also contributes to the number of accidents. do you think that the policy of moving goods from road to rail should be increased and made more efficient?
member of the commission. − mr president, the current gsp scheme expires on 31 december 2011. the commission is already working on a substantive updating and review of the current scheme. later this month, i will launch a wide public consultation on possible improvements and changes followed by a thorough impact reassessment. the commission proposal for a successor regulation can therefore be expected to be ready during the first quarter of 2011. this proposal will of course be subject to the ordinary legislative procedure, which may well last beyond the expiry date of the current scheme, 31 december 2011. you will all agree that we must avoid a situation whereby gsp beneficiaries lose all their preferences on 1 january 2012. we will therefore submit, in parallel with the launch of this essential preparatory work for a new gsp scheme, a proposal to extend the current regulation granting continuity until the new scheme is in place. this should give you the time to work in earnest on the successor scheme whilst ensuring that gsp beneficiaries are not left out in the cold. you should receive this document in april. i have noted your question on all concerns as regards the way in which the commission monitors beneficiary countries’ compliance with the current criteria for gsp+ treatment. the basic criterion for gsp+ is the ratification and effective implementation of 27 international conventions in the fields of human rights, core labour standards, sustainable development and good governance. it is the commission’s task to closely monitor all beneficiary countries’ compliance with these criteria. the commission is obliged and determined to operate gsp in a fair, objective manner. in this respect, we base our monitoring and evaluation of effective implementation of the gsp+ arrangements as much as possible on the findings and reports of international organisations such as the united nations, the ilo and other relevant agencies, as well as on the monitoring mechanisms envisaged in the conventions themselves. this provides for an unambiguous and impartial review process. the monitoring is also supported by the commission’s bilateral dialogue with the gsp+ countries on implementation issues. if such reports contain information that gsp criteria are not being fully respected, the gsp regulation provides for the possibility that the commission undertake an investigation to clarify the factual situation and propose appropriate action. this investigation tool is a serious instrument that should be deployed when the situation justifies it, but launching an investigation is not a step to be taken lightly as it may impact on our wider relationship with the partner countries. think, for example, of the recent case with sri lanka. as the objective of the gsp+ scheme is to incentivise countries to adhere to international good governance standards, gsp+ countries should first be given the opportunity to prove their commitment to the gsp+ objectives, their willingness to cooperate with international monitoring bodies and to address the shortcomings identified. this approach gives credit for the steps already taken by those countries and is in line with the general incentive-based approach that underpins the gsp+. i am eager to engage with you in a debate on the future of the gsp scheme and of the gsp+ in particular. in preparing the review of the current scheme, which will also concern the gsp+ criteria and the monitoring of respect, the themes raised by the european parliament will be carefully looked at. since this review will now follow the ordinary legislative procedure, the european parliament will be in an equal position with the council in determining the final shape of the new gsp scheme.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, following on from what has been said by our colleague daniel caspary, whom i fully support, i would like to stress a few points. first of all, the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon in many ways reshapes the role of parliament in the formulation of eu trade policy. the gsp is one of those areas where parliament will have a bigger say and more leverage. commissioner, i would also like to urge you to look favourably on the increased role of parliament in the domain you oversee. i therefore urge you to consult parliament when it comes to the conclusion or the review of the gsp and gsp+ beneficiaries list. thirdly, parliament should also be drawn into the process of monitoring whether the gsp beneficiaries uphold – not only ratify but also effectively implement – the 27 ilo and united nations conventions. the commission should at least consult parliament on this issue and it is, of course, our duty in parliament to make sure that we develop mechanisms inside our relevant bodies, our committees, to contribute to such monitoring. on a final note, i would like to reiterate the call expressed in the draft resolution we will be voting on tomorrow. the commission should draft the new regulation on gsp as soon as possible. last but not least, i disagree with what has been said by some colleagues on colombia. colombia is a country like many countries in the region and we cannot ignore positive developments, achievements in the field of human rights and on the situation of human rights defenders in this country. there is no need to name and shame this particular country, as our resolution is on the new regulation and the need to have a new regulation.
mr president, i welcome and support both reports and i congratulate both rapporteurs on those documents. now for two points. firstly, on the danjean report, i would like to bring up an issue that has raised a lot of eyebrows in a number of eu member states. i am talking specifically about the exclusive talks between paris and moscow over the possible sale of four mistral warships to russia. the mistral warship is clearly offensive in nature and it is indeed very alarming that some eu member states are engaging in arms sales to third countries, which might have very negative consequences for the security of other eu member states or the eu’s neighbours. the treaty of lisbon outlines common defence aspirations and includes a clause about solidarity in the area of security and defence. therefore, what do you reckon parliament and other eu institutions should push for? a common set of rules inside the eu addressing arms sales from eu member states to third countries. as regards mr albertini’s report, i would like to stress the importance of stability and security in east asia. we welcome the efforts undertaken by both taipei and beijing to improve cross-state relations and to enhance dialogue and practical cooperation. in this context the eu should strongly back taiwan’s participation in the international civil aviation organisation and in the united nations framework convention on climate change as taiwan’s participation in these organisations is important to the eu and global interests.
i want to tell you, madam president, that i support this decision, even though my card didn't work at first, so i want to report it. now for the gist. ladies and gentlemen, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending the provisions on annual reporting by micro-entities. the project is the subject of heated debate at almost all levels, both within the institutions of the european union and those of the national states. i am convinced that common european union rules must be drawn up. however, i would like to emphasise that the reduction in administrative costs for micro-enterprises must not undermine the conditions of fair competition both in the internal markets of the member states and in the common market of the european union. i think there should be a uniform tax for these micro-entities, which exists in some states. if it could be calculated, it could be calculated either on the basis of the number of persons or on the basis of the turnover or on the basis of the area, depending on the nature of the business. this will prevent these companies from being tempted to engage in illegal activities.
ladies and gentlemen, i would like to speak about the european union 2020 strategy 2020. in principle, any initiative that improves the situation of the european union can be welcomed, but this does not mean that there is no room for criticism and improvement. i believe that the same is true of the draft european union 2020 strategy. whether we like it or not, we must gradually blur the boundaries between the economic rules of the national states. of course, in this case i am not talking about areas such as culture, traditions, national heritage. it must nevertheless be stressed that the european union market is a single market in economic terms. otherwise, it would be the same as if different conditions were applied to different regions or districts of the same country, as we have here. the european union must therefore meet the deadline, the general economic conditions, no matter how much the eu member states, large or small, resist. the focus on the development of high technology, the knowledge economy and science is also welcome. but it must be admitted that every european union...
mr president, i supported the resolution on the situation of civil society and national minorities in belarus and today i would like to express once again my great concern at the recent human rights violations in belarus against members of civil society and against members of the national minorities and their organisations. i would like to declare my full solidarity with citizens unable to enjoy their full civil rights. i would also like to strongly condemn the arrest of angelika borys, the chairperson of the union of poles in belarus, and also anatoly lebedko, the leader of the opposition united civil party and the leader of the united democratic forces in belarus, who has been the guest of this house on several occasions. regrettably, the people of belarus are not able to benefit from many projects and proposals the european union is financing as part of our eastern neighbourhood policy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the current social and economic problems cannot be solved at national level and must therefore be addressed at european and international level. in particular, the eu 2020 strategy should be an effective tool to overcome the economic and financial crisis, as it aims at creating jobs and growth. the high level of unemployment in europe is the main issue in the current debate, as member states face a steadily increasing unemployment rate, with more than 23 million women and men out of work, and this causes enormous social and living difficulties. the european parliament therefore focuses its resolution on job creation and the fight against social exclusion. parliament also called on the commission to take account of the unemployment and social problems and to identify effective ways of tackling them, so that the new strategy could have a real impact on people's real lives. i would like to point out that europe has already learned from the mistakes of failing to fully implement the objectives set in the previous lisbon strategy, and the new strategy for the next decade must be based on a strong governance framework and ensure accountability. i therefore call on the commission and the european council, in voting today for this parliament's resolution, to concentrate on the main social problems in europe and to set fewer, but clearer and more realistic targets that can be achieved.
in writing. − the european council stressed the importance of renewing the economic and social contract between financial institutions and the society they serve, and ensuring that the public can benefit from and be protected from risks during the transition period. in this regard, the european council invited the imf to consider all options, including, inter alia, global financial transaction fees, in the context of the review. i supported this resolution and i believe that the european union must agree on a common position on this issue. the european commission is to prepare an impact assessment of the global financial transaction tax and to examine its advantages and disadvantages. i also agree with the resolution that it is necessary to examine at community level how the financial sector can make a fair and substantial contribution to compensating for the damage it has caused to the economy or which is linked to government interventions to stabilise the banking system.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution. undoubtedly, better protection of intellectual property rights and combating counterfeiting and piracy are very important issues in the european union and worldwide, and i very much welcome the opening of negotiations at international level to strengthen ipr and to fight counterfeiting and piracy more effectively. however, i am very disappointed at how those negotiations are taking place. under the lisbon treaty, the european parliament has to be informed immediately and fully by the commission at all stages of international agreements, which is not the case with the acta agreement. moreover, the european parliament will have to give its consent to the acta treaty prior to its entry force in the eu. how will we able to do it if we are kept in the dark? i very much hope that the european commission will fulfil its duty and will provide all necessary information on the state of negotiations.
in writing. − i support this report because i believe that a clear and coordinated common foreign and security policy can make a significant contribution to strengthening the european union's international standing. the eu's increasing energy dependence on supply sources and transit channels and the need to prevent the eu's energy dependence on third countries are undoubtedly among the key issues of the cfsp. i would like to urge the vice-president of the commission, ms ashton, to implement decisively parliament's recommendations for a coherent and coordinated policy, in particular by promoting eu cohesion through a constructive dialogue with energy suppliers, in particular russia, and transit countries, supporting the eu's energy priorities and defending the common interests of the member states, developing effective diplomacy in the field of energy, developing more effective crisis management tools and promoting the diversification of energy supply, the sustainable use of energy and the development of renewable energy sources. i am convinced that only by acting together can the eu ensure the uninterrupted and secure supply of gas and oil to its member states in the future and increase the energy independence of the eu as a whole.
today we are discussing a very important issue. the effects of climate change are fundamentally changing the situation in the arctic. the arctic is opening up new sea lanes and opportunities for the transport of gas, oil and other natural resources as a result of global warming, but at the same time it is becoming highly vulnerable to ecological problems and the sharing of its resources between states, with potentially negative consequences for international stability and european security interests. as regards the impact of the environment and climate change on the region, one of the main objectives of arctic policy must be to mitigate the negative impacts of climate change and to help the region adapt to the inevitable changes. no treaty regime has been applied in the arctic region so far. the european parliament has repeatedly stressed the importance of arctic governance. i believe that the situation has changed and that it is necessary to gradually start to develop an autonomous policy for the european union, and the european commission should play an active role in this regard. the situation in this region has long been a source of tension between the arctic states, and this tension will only increase as the region becomes more accessible. i believe that the european union needs to initiate a comprehensive dialogue with other countries, which would open up new opportunities for cooperation. i think it is time to start thinking about an international convention on the management of this region, the preservation of the arctic environment and the sustainable use of its resources.
the lisbon treaty provides for a stronger role for civil society in the european institutions and for european citizens to initiate a legislative proposal. the right of citizens' initiative would allow at least one million citizens to ask the commission to take a legislative initiative in a specific area. however, it is very difficult to collect such a large number of voters' signatures and, therefore, in order to create an effective participatory democracy mechanism and to ensure that this initiative is accessible to citizens, it is necessary to provide the possibility to initiate a proposal in a clear and simplified manner. unfortunately, the right of citizens' initiative is no longer a practical option after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. so far, all aspects of the citizens' initiative have not been discussed, there is no concrete action plan to guarantee transparency and democratic accountability of initiatives, so that citizens do not become victims of the representation of the interests of large companies. the citizens' dialogue is therefore the most important element and the necessary basis of the european and lithuanian model of democracy, and i would therefore urge the commission to take all measures to ensure that this right of citizens' initiative is put into practice as soon as possible.
mr president, i see that the eu spanish presidency is leaving the meeting room, so i would like to express my deep disappointment that neither the spanish presidency nor the high representative will be present for this discussion and that their seats will be empty. it is a disgraceful move against the european parliament, which is the only eu institution elected by the people of europe, and it sets a very bad precedent, especially having the treaty of lisbon in force. may i ask you, mr president, to forward to those who will be absent that the agenda of the plenary session is decided by parliament, not by the council and not by the eu spanish presidency, and that at least one of them should have been present here today.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank parliament for putting this issue up for debate today, because i think that it is worth discussing and i think we should start by stating the fact that our relationship with china – which we consider to be very important and strategic – has made enormous progress over the last number of years. having such a strong strategic partnership would and does definitely permit us to tackle all issues, including the most sensitive ones. we have constructed an impressive framework of high-level interactions where we regularly address the global challenges that our citizens are facing without neglecting the issues where our views may differ – and tibet is definitely one of them. it is evident that differences with china on tibet remain. we have real concerns about the human rights situation in tibet, about the fact that tibet has remained largely closed to international media, diplomats and humanitarian organisations and also about the lack of progress in talks between the representatives of the dalai lama and the chinese authorities. the eu position does not leave any room for misinterpretation. therefore, let me stress: the eu respects the sovereignty and territorial integrity of china, including tibet. we respect the ‘one china’ policy. however, we have always supported peaceful reconciliation through dialogue between the chinese authorities and the representatives of the dalai lama. this dialogue has to be constructive and substantive, addressing all core issues such as the preservation of tibet’s unique culture, religion and traditions and the need to achieve a system of meaningful autonomy for tibet within the chinese constitution. the dialogue should also address the participation of all tibetans in decision-making. for the eu, tibet is a human rights issue. we have consistently passed this message on to our chinese counterparts and listened carefully to their views, and we make every effort to understand their position in a spirit of mutual respect. but human rights are universal, and the situation in tibet is a legitimate concern for the international community, a point that we regularly make to our chinese interlocutors. in the sino-tibetan dialogue, the tibetan side has recently submitted an updated memorandum on genuine autonomy for the future of tibet. we welcome that the tibetan side has reiterated its firm commitment not to seek separation or independence. we are also pleased that the dalai lama remains committed to the middle-way approach and to dialogue as the only means for achieving a mutually acceptable and lasting solution. the eu welcomes the fact that both parties continue to hold talks even if we note with regret the lack of results and the lack of momentum. let me conclude by appealing to the representatives of the two sides to continue and intensify the dialogue with an open spirit and with a view to achieving a durable solution in tibet. from our side i can guarantee the eu’s wholehearted support to such a process.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the ninth round of sino-tibetan talks failed to produce any concrete results and has not improved the situation of the tibetan population on the ground. we regret the absence of any statement by the eu before the end of the talks, and hope that the european union will release a statement on the evaluation of the outcome of the talks. the european parliament would like to know in what way the eu council could help create a mutually acceptable solution to the tibet issue and ensure basic human rights and genuine autonomy for tibetans. my second point is to remind you that the european parliament insists on the importance of the european commission supporting development and civil society projects in favour of the tibetan population in tibet and of tibetan refugees in exile – in india, nepal, bhutan – in economic and social fields such as health and nutrition, livelihoods and education, access to jobs, gender issues, environment and the revitalisation of settlements. on this last point, the tibetan revitalisation plan for refugee settlements, drawn up by the central tibetan administration in dharamsala, presents the needs of the tibetan community in exile and could be taken into account and supported by the european commission. finally, president obama recently met with the dalai lama in the white house. we look forward to seeing baroness ashton inviting the dalai lama and meeting him in brussels. this would create an opportunity to start coordinating national positions on tibet and to define a unified and clear eu position and policy on this issue. the appointment of an eu special coordinator for tibet, which is mentioned in the eu budget, could be a useful tool in helping to define a common european position and strategy on tibet.
the european union's economic recovery has been the talk of the town lately, but the crisis is far from over in many member states. in public, the talk of crisis is limited to the state of public finances, although unemployment is rising very rapidly and has already reached a critical point in some eastern european union member states. it is strange to hear high-ranking officials of the european union and the european parliament warmly praising these governments for their excellent work, even though the unemployment rate in those countries is rising catastrophically every month, social security is being reduced, and the number of people living below the poverty line is increasing. people in these countries no longer understand the european union's social policy of reducing or increasing poverty. i think that governments that have failed to solve at least the problem of stabilizing unemployment should not be praised. the european commission should take greater responsibility and responsibly monitor the implementation of national governments' crisis management plans, especially in the area of social reforms, and assess the impact of such reforms on people.
i am pleased that the european union and the member states have committed themselves to fighting poverty by declaring this year the european year against poverty and social exclusion, as almost 80 million europeans are already below the poverty line. many europeans, even those who have a job, struggle daily with poverty and lack the opportunity to enjoy a decent life. the budget for the implementation of the actions foreseen for europe 2010 is eur 17 million and will be used to organise information seminars, working groups and public consultations to overcome the stereotypes of poverty management. this is a very good initiative, but how can we ensure that these funds are used efficiently and transparently and reach directly the citizens who need them most? i want to emphasize that it is not possible to prevent the increase in poverty in one year. i would therefore suggest that the european union's structures and the member states take concrete action and make long-term commitments at all levels of government to ensure that funds allocated to help those directly affected by poverty are allocated in a transparent and targeted manner.
in view of the difficult economic situation in the member states, the budget for the coming year should be planned with the utmost care. the main focus should be on preserving and creating jobs. supporting and promoting the activities of small and medium-sized enterprises, which employ the majority of the citizens of the european union, would help to achieve this. more flexible and accessible financial support instruments are needed to ensure the survival of start-ups or firms in financial difficulty. areas that add value not only to individual member states but also to the community as a whole should not be overlooked. such areas could include transport, which should give priority to the development of a sustainable, safe and sustainable transport system, and the development of trans-european networks. adequate financing of energy interconnection projects ensuring energy independence must also remain a priority in the 2011 budget.
the products of the agricultural sector of the european union are known and appreciated on the world market for their high quality. as regards the future prospects of the cap, i am convinced that product quality must remain a key objective in the future. high-quality agricultural products are not only our business card on a global scale, but also a very important part of the economic and social life of the european union region. the quality policy should be developed by providing greater clarity in product certification and labelling, which should be understandable to every consumer in the european union. in order to preserve the production of quality agricultural products, it is necessary to clearly specify the labelling of products which may contain genetically modified organisms. this problem has become particularly acute following the commission's decision to authorise the use of genetically modified potatoes for animal feed. until labelling and certification standards are established for such products, the future of the european union's food quality policy and the health of all of us are at risk.
it is a matter of great pleasure that the g20 labour and employment ministers are meeting for the first time. at the 2009 g20 leaders' meeting in pittsburgh, heads of state agreed that national recovery plans should focus on job preservation and job creation. unfortunately, the situation has deteriorated since that meeting, both in the european union and globally. the daily rise in unemployment has reached a critical level in some member states, and the crisis plans of some national governments are making people's lives significantly worse by cutting pensions and other key social guarantees. small and medium-sized enterprises are closing down en masse. i believe that the g20 should focus on agreeing on concrete measures to stabilise unemployment, because people's frustration and fear will not help our countries' economic recovery any faster.
first of all, i really welcome the fact that for the first time the g20, the ministers of the world's most powerful countries, the ministers of labour and employment, are meeting to discuss the most important issues. it is how to tackle unemployment and how to increase employment. indeed, this meeting will take place in a very difficult environment, with some 5.5 million young people out of work in the european union alone. the number of long-term unemployed is also growing. in my country, lithuania, there are already 300,000 registered unemployed this week. this has never happened in 20 years of my country's independence. it is therefore essential that the ministers of the strongest countries meet to identify the concrete measures that should be taken to ensure that people in the european union have not just any job, but the right job, a job of quality, a job with normal pay, from which they can live, rather than living in poverty. i would therefore like to see such concrete decisions taken at this meeting.
we have to fight tb, because every year, a lot of people die from tb, and almost a third of the world's population is infected. i would like to point out that tb is the most widespread infectious disease in the world, and is strongly linked to social and economic problems, i.e. poverty, unemployment, alcoholism, drug addiction, hiv/aids, as well as to the inadequate health care system in poor countries and to delayed diagnosis. to overcome these causes of tuberculosis, the european commission, the member states of the european union must take concrete and urgent action to develop common measures to combat this terrible disease, to find a common political dialogue on financial support and to adopt a common action plan to combat it. despite the inclusion of tuberculosis in the list of priority diseases, the fight against tuberculosis is still underfunded and it is therefore necessary to review the allocations of the european union budget in this action programme. i would also call for greater investment in research to combat tb.
in writing. eu responsibility to help developing countries overcome the difficulties of the global economic crisis and poverty that have not been their fault. it is essential that the commission should pursue the reform of international development cooperation with determination in order to improve, together with the council, the coordination of bilateral and multilateral development cooperation, as weaknesses in this area are a major factor that can affect the effectiveness of development aid. aid to alleviate poverty and exclusion, measures to contribute to development and measures to help developing countries emerge from the crisis, which is particularly acute at this critical time. we will be able to deliver on the broad commitments made by jointly implementing better coordinated and more efficiently and transparently administered actions, with a view to achieving broad-based agreements with key donors, partner countries, financial institutions and civil society. the european union must take the lead and act more decisively in this respect. to this end, all the institutions of the european union must make greater commitments, and parliament has clearly expressed its unequivocal opinion on this issue.
the recovery from the complex economic and financial crisis has not been as effective as might have been expected. when the crisis began, the member states' bank support programmes were not aligned with the common european conditions and some banks used the additional funds provided by the ecb to cover their losses. the aid for economic activities, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises, was also not harmonised. the consequences of these actions are obvious: the massive closure of small and medium-sized enterprises due to the lack of timely access to loans from banks. the euro area countries that have been provided with liquidity by the european central bank have been better able to overcome their difficulties. if we believe in european solidarity, if we operate in an open market on equal terms and if we all want to get out of this difficult situation as quickly as possible, i believe that the european central bank should have ensured the supply of liquidity to the non-euro area member states, which have been particularly hard hit by the crisis.
i voted in favour of the resolution on the priorities for the 2011 budget for a number of reasons, but the issue of youth unemployment was the most prominent. the current economic and social situation in many countries of the european union requires a special approach to the growing gap between the youth and the labour market, even though it is recognised that investing in young people, in education, is an investment in the future. experience shows that in times of economic downturn, young people prefer to stay in education or go to college rather than look for work. similar trends are now being observed in our own countries. so i would say that the measures that are envisaged, the more active link between the labour market and the education system, are very important. entrepreneurship skills development, specific programmes are very much needed both for the first job in erasmus and for other measures. i hope and i hope very much that the european union will have the political will not only to adopt very important documents but also to implement them.
i voted for this document because i believe that organic and clean farming is our future and that we must promote it. we also need to promote people's interest in organic farming and organic products, both in the european union and in the member states. on the other hand, in order to ensure and promote organic farming, we must not rush to legalise genetically modified organisms. some countries have set a very good example by strictly limiting the cultivation of genetically modified organisms around organic farms. there should be a clear path. the commission is also required to make available to consumers all information and research results concerning gmos and the environmental and human health effects of gm feed, without concealing anything from them. only then will we be able to create a genuine single market for organic products, which is very important in the lives of each of us.
in writing. − i supported both reports on the allocation of funds from the european globalisation adjustment fund to unemployed workers in lithuania. the economic and financial crisis in lithuania has affected many different sectors and left many people without jobs and livelihoods. the rules on the allocation of the globalisation adjustment fund have been simplified in view of the difficult situation on the labour market and the increasing number of unemployed people, and lithuania must therefore use all possible means of the requested funds to help the people who have lost their jobs to the maximum extent possible. it is also essential to ensure that these funds are used efficiently and that they bring real benefits to the people of lithuania.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the european union's globalisation adjustment fund (egf) will provide financial support to the unemployed in the furniture industry, as a result of the large number of redundancies caused by the decline in exports from the furniture industry. eu support will be used to help people to retrain, find a job or set up their own businesses. i am pleased that the european commission has assessed lithuania's application for eu funding, as the chances of workers in furniture firms being made redundant during a difficult period of time to return to the labour market are very low, and the massive redundancies in 49 companies have a very negative impact on the country's economic situation. i would urge the eu institutions to ensure a smooth and rapid decision-making process when considering issues of financial support, as the delay in such decisions can only worsen the already difficult situation of workers. i would like to note that this eu financial assistance will help workers who have been affected by major structural changes in the economy and trade to reintegrate into the labour market.
in writing. − i am pleased that today's vote on financial support for the lithuanian clothing industry took place, as this sector has suffered particularly badly during the difficult period. i would like to point out that the clothing sector is predominantly female and that the impact of the crisis-induced redundancies has doubled the number of unemployed women in lithuania in the year to july 2009. i voted in favour of this report because the financial support from the eu globalisation adjustment fund (egf) will be used for employment promotion measures to recruit redundant workers as soon as possible, training and retraining allowances, as well as allowances for the care of young children under 8 and disabled family members. this financial assistance is therefore very much needed in the clothing industry, as the sharp drop in demand for clothing in lithuania and in the export sectors has significantly reduced the volume of clothing sewing. i would also like to point out that this redundancy not only has a negative impact on the national and local economy, but also has a very painful impact on the lives of individual workers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of two reports by barbara matera on financial support for redundant workers in lithuania from the european globalisation adjustment fund. i would also like to thank those colleagues who voted in favour as a qualified majority and three fifths of the votes cast were necessary for the adoption of the reports. both reports on the situation in the furniture manufacturing sector and in the wearing apparel manufacturing sector represent one of the most acute unemployment cases in lithuania. the sums are not big for the eu but they will alleviate the hardships lithuanian workers are facing. this is the case for those who worked in the 49 enterprises in the furniture manufacturing sector, where redundant workers will be paid eur 662 088 from the european globalisation fund, as well as for those who worked in the 45 enterprises in the wearing apparel manufacturing sector, where the sum is eur 523 481. even though this might be only the tip of the iceberg of the unemployment problem in lithuania, the financial support will help those most in need.
in writing. − i have endorsed this report because i believe it sets out in detail the main problems of the euro area and public finances. employment in the member states of the european union continues to decline and is projected to continue to do so. the stability of the eu as a whole is threatened by the chaotic structural reforms in some member states, which are being carried out without a concrete plan. small and medium-sized enterprises are experiencing a particularly difficult period, as both the member states and the european central bank have failed to control and monitor the allocation of funds to banks for the primary purpose of providing preferential credit to small businesses. it is also essential to support the development of the euro area and to take appropriate measures to create the right conditions for member states aspiring to join the euro area.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the european parliament drew the commission's attention to the fact that, as the developed countries gradually emerge from the global crisis, the situation of the developing countries continues to deteriorate. the european central bank (ecb), the commission and the euro area member states therefore have a role to play in promoting the process of economic and monetary integration within the european union and in supporting the development of the euro area. i agree with the call for the ecb to support the efforts of non-euro area member states to adopt the euro, in particular where member states demonstrate the ability to maintain sound and stable fiscal discipline. i would point out that in order to prevent future financial crises, it is necessary to call for greater coordination of the eurogroup, the council and the ecb in their exchange rate policy. thus, despite the crisis, little progress has been made in the transition to a common international representation for the euro area. the most worrying aspect is that, despite all efforts to stabilise monetary and fiscal policies, employment in the eu continues to decline, unemployment and social exclusion to increase.
in writing. - i have endorsed the candidacy of rassa budbergytė for the european court of auditors. her candidacy is very well received in lithuania and in europe, as she has a lot of experience and has developed a high-quality, independent audit system in lithuania. the nomination of rassa budbergytė was very well received by the committee on budgetary control almost all members supported her nomination. she is a competent professional and her professional experience and personal qualities will enable her to perform all the duties of a member of the european court of auditors properly. in addition, rasa budbergytė has publicly promised to organise her activities on the basis of independence and audit standards and in compliance with ethical requirements if she is appointed to this position. it promises to do its work according to two principles. first, it is the strict adherence to international standards on auditing and the audit practices and procedures established by the european court of auditors. secondly, productive work in the performance of her direct personal duties as a member of a group or small college and as a representative of the european court of auditors as a collegiate body. it plans to strengthen the interinstitutional cooperation of the european court of auditors with the ep, and in particular with the committee on budgetary control. i am convinced that the auditor has demonstrated her competence and professionalism in the field of auditing. i am sure that her impeccable work will make a great contribution to the european union as a whole.
in writing. − mr fazakas's candidacy for the european court of auditors has led to a heated and controversial debate in the committee on budgetary control. although his candidacy had been known since november, it was only a few days before the hearings that information about mr fazakas' possible collaboration with the ss secret services was circulated in the committee of candidates. i am surprised that the question of mr fazak's competence is raised only now, when hungary is preparing for elections, when for five years, during which mr fazak was a member of the european parliament, chairman of the committee on budgetary control and quaestor, there was no question of his competence and ability to perform his duties. i am convinced that the european parliament is not the place for opaque political games, and that is why i supported mr fazakas's candidacy. i believe that there was sufficient time between november and the hearing for interested parties to provide properly reasoned information on the circumstances that could have affected mr fazakas' appointment as eio and to ensure a thorough parliamentary assessment, but this was not done.
in writing. − i fully endorse these recommendations. i think that the eu’s strengthened external role should be used to enhance dialogue with key partners and to build a stronger eu. the eu and its member states are significant contributors to the un’s budget. in order to ensure that the union’s values and interests are represented in a coherent and effective way in the un system, it is necessary that the eu speaks with a single voice. the eu should play an active role in supporting the reform process of the un system and especially the reform of the security council. i believe that an eu seat in an enlarged security council should remain a goal of the european union.
in writing. − the majority of european roma became citizens after the 2004 and 2007 enlargements and they and their families enjoy the right to move and reside freely within the territory of the eu. however, in some member states with a significant share of roma population, the roma are still faced with numerous problems such as segregation in education, housing, very low employment rates and unequal access to health care and public services. the eu and member states share a responsibility to promote and ensure the inclusion of roma and to uphold their fundamental rights as european citizens and to increase their efforts to achieve visible results.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the roma of europe continue to suffer from severe discrimination and, in many cases, from extreme poverty and social exclusion. i would like to point out that the situation of the majority of roma living in many countries of the european union is different from that of other european national minorities and that it is therefore necessary to take the necessary measures at eu level and to develop a common strategy to combat discrimination against roma. i support the european parliament's calls for the new commissioners to give priority to roma issues in their areas of competence and to give due attention to the roma inclusion strategy. i would like to stress that in a democratic and free society we must respect the fundamental rights and freedoms of all people. the commission and the member states must therefore coordinate and find a common dialogue on the situation of the roma and take measures to combat discrimination against them. only when a common european approach to european roma issues is found will the strategy be actively implemented. i also support the parliament's position that representatives of the roma community should be included in the process of developing eu roma policy.
in writing. − i support this report because the circumstances in which the 2011 budget will be adopted will be exceptional, due to the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and the continuing economic and financial crisis. the budget will need to be carefully balanced to ensure the successful achievement of the objectives set out in the lisbon treaty, such as the creation of a single internal energy market. budgetary planning should also focus on the effects of the financial crisis, which are still being felt in many countries, and on efforts to address them effectively. the main priority must remain the preservation and creation of jobs, which is closely linked to the need for financial support for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the main creators of jobs. the adoption of the european parliament's budget for 2011 must pay particular attention to the ep's priority high-level legislation and provide all the necessary means to this end. the question of the efficient organisation of the ep's work, including the allocation of one mep's place of work, must also be properly addressed.
in writing. − i fully support this report. the global financial and economic financial crisis caused great disturbances in developed economies but it had even more profound effects on emerging and developing countries. the achievement of millennium development goals is now at stake because the progress that has been made in those counties over the last decade has stalled. financial aid alone cannot ensure economic progress in developing countries. thus the commission should urge the reform of international development cooperation. moreover, i believe that assistance to developing countries should be constantly adapted to the circumstances in those countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because we have a duty to help developing countries, especially in these difficult economic times. in many developing countries, particularly in the least developed countries, the sharp decline in export earnings has slowed down growth and development in the southern regions. it is of particular importance to agree on an economic partnership to enhance eu policy coherence for development purposes, and in particular to promote decent work, prosperity and job creation, and to ensure that trade commitments are properly implemented and that there is an appropriate transition period for those commitments. aid to alleviate poverty and exclusion, measures contributing to development and measures necessary to overcome the crisis in developing countries. the european union must take the lead and act with greater determination in implementing these actions and all the institutions of the european union must make greater commitments to this end. we cannot allow the crisis to stop the progress these countries have made in sustainable economic growth over the last decade, and i believe that more development assistance is necessary.
in writing. europe is currently facing a steady rise in unemployment and almost 17% of europeans are already below the poverty line. many europeans, even those who have jobs, struggle daily with poverty and lack the opportunity to enjoy a full life, as the recession has pushed many people, even those with middle incomes, into poverty. the problem of working poverty should therefore be given special attention in the first place. employment must be increased by creating new jobs not just any jobs, but by ensuring full employment of high quality, taking into account the requirements of the labour market. the main focus should be on one of the most painful problems facing society: the rise in youth unemployment. if young people are not given the opportunity to enter the labour market, then europe risks losing a whole generation of young people! the demographic situation in europe has long been a cause for concern about the employment of older people. it is necessary to provide employment-friendly employment relationships and to ensure lifelong learning opportunities. i would like to point out that the employment of disabled people should also be discussed. it is important to enable them to integrate into the labour market not only because of demographic change but also because of their own dignity and self-esteem. so i would like to ask the commission how europe will create new jobs. what are the real opportunities for people to enter the labour market? how can we ensure quality employment to reduce the poverty of the working population?
in writing. − i supported this report because i believe that the provisions on the fight against fraud need to be strengthened. tax evasion has serious implications for national budgets, violates the principle of fair taxation and can distort competition, affecting the functioning of the internal market. the current rules do not ensure effective cooperation between member states, although vat fraud is often organised across several countries and therefore requires cooperation between member states to prevent it. the new wording of the regulation is to be welcomed as it will strengthen the existing community database of vat payers and their transactions, giving member states access to information, improving administrative cooperation and making it possible to combat vat evasion more effectively.
in writing. − the events of recent weeks have shown that security at airports is an important task for the member states and that all essential precautions must be taken. each member state shall decide on the means of financing aviation security and the application of aviation security. it is essential that the directive establishes the basic principles and procedures governing the relationship between the safety authority and the air carriers. the legal requirements for airport regulation vary widely between member states, but the operator must provide air carriers with sufficient information to make consultations between airport and air carrier representatives meaningful. the directive therefore sets out the information that the airport managing body must provide on a regular basis. air carriers should, in turn, provide information on their flight forecasts, expected fleet utilisation, current and future specific airport requirements in order to enable the airport managing body to optimise its capital and capacity allocation.
in writing. - eu: 5 million km of roads (62 000 km of motorways), 215 000 km of railways and 41 000 km of inland waterways. by 2020, traffic between member states is expected to double. a united europe is not possible without a coordinated and efficient trans-european transport network (ten-t). under the eu agreement, the ten-t investment will amount to some eur 500 billion. it is therefore important to ensure european cooperation and to select priority projects carefully. the ten-t is designed to link the land, sea and air transport networks across europe by 2020. the main objective is to ensure the rapid and easy movement of goods and people between member states. lithuania's largest port, klaipėda, is connected to vilnius by a european highway and a railway line to the east and moscow. in order to remain competitive, the port needs to modernise its existing infrastructure and remove administrative barriers. railways and inland waterways should be used in particular for long-distance transport and roads for short-distance transport. increased efforts for transit of goods and inland waterway transport (more cost-effective and energy efficient, cleaner environment, safe). the safety and security of passengers is of the utmost importance. the financial crisis has affected transport policy. however, the ten-t can be used for job creation and monitoring of social and economic cohesion. the importance of transport policy for the european economy is recognised in the europe 2020 strategy. the free movement of people and goods is defined by the eu. this is only possible with a good ten-t.
in writing. − it is important to note that the burden on national financial resources is increasing and calls for further action to reduce it better use of community funding, mobilising all available funds and promoting their activities in order to overcome the crisis, in particular by using the european social fund (esf) to implement the measures for rapid economic recovery as provided for in the abovementioned communication. it is particularly important to increase efforts to facilitate the management of community funding in order to accelerate the allocation of funding to beneficiaries most affected by the economic downturn. it is important to pursue the overall objective of accelerating co-financed investments in member states and regions and increasing the impact of funding on the economy as a whole, in particular on small and medium-sized enterprises and employment. small and medium-sized enterprises are the driving force of the eu economy and a key driver of sustainable economic growth, creating many quality jobs. further simplification and refinement of the rules governing cohesion policy will undoubtedly have a positive impact on the speed of programme implementation, in particular by providing national, regional and local authorities with clearer and less bureaucratic rules, which will allow for greater flexibility in adapting programmes to new challenges.
in writing. − the global financial crisis has affected all eu countries. i think the baltic states have been hit the hardest. the financial hurricane has led to severe measures and job losses. but we have a unique opportunity to turn this crisis into a tragedy. the intention to give young lithuanians a promising lietuvos ateitį, to avoid the growing brain drain. this task is not possible without the eu structural and cohesion funds in particular the european regional development fund (erdf) and the european social fund (esf). the structural funds account for a large part of the eu's funding of 277 billion for the 2007-13 budget. the erdf promotes economic development and economic recovery in lessfavoured areas of the eu. it helped to finance measures such as the rebuilding of industrial areas affected by the decline of urban and rural areas. the scope of important regional programmes, such as the baltic sea region programme, is to strengthen recognition of the identity of the region. cohesion funds are important in reducing disparities between eu countries. the trans-european transport networks are a special case. the esf also has a crucial role to play today (2007-2013) in helping businesses and workers adapt to new market conditions by supporting innovation in the workplace, lifelong learning and increased mobility. lithuania's esf programme addresses labour shortages by mobilising human resources to develop skills and qualifications. since joining the eu, lithuania has experienced a huge outflow of money". the best way to do this is to invest eu structural funds in young professionals.
in writing. − the competitiveness of european maritime transport should remain one of the strategic objectives of the european union's maritime transport policy. to achieve this objective, it is necessary to ensure the necessary support for innovation, research and development, which will accelerate the modernisation of seaport infrastructure and ensure the application of the latest technologies in the shipbuilding industry. reducing administrative burdens and red tape would increase private and public sector investment in the seaports and shipping sectors. the development of trans-european transport networks, the provision of motorways of the sea and the development of vehicle intermodality would create a competitive and innovative european maritime transport system. it is also necessary to address the issue of the harmonisation of the taxation of crews flying the flag of the european community.
in writing. − more than 80% of world trade is carried by sea, and maritime transport remains the backbone of international trade. the eu is the world's leading exporter and second largest importer. shipping and related services are therefore essential to enable european businesses to compete on a global scale. coastal shipping is an important part of the european transport chain, carrying 40% of intra-european freight. more than 400 million passengers use european ports every year, and maritime transport has a direct impact on the quality of life of european citizens. the ep is one of the defenders of maritime policy in the eu. the eu's maritime transport policy also supports other policies, in particular the integrated maritime policy. the global financial crisis has also affected the maritime transport sector. it is therefore now time to unlock the economic potential of european shipping in a special way. to promote economic growth and social and environmental stability. the cornerstone of eu maritime policy is the long-term competitiveness of european shipping. this strategy promotes safe, clean and efficient shipping, and creates jobs in the european maritime policy industry. the strategic vision, looking at the development of shipping, ports and similar sectors, is important for simplifying the eu's maritime policy to meet future challenges such as the fight against piracy and reducing the environmental impact of shipping. an integrated, cross-sectoral approach is needed, covering fisheries, transport, environment, energy, industry, research and innovation policies. the era of competing european neighbours is over. this applies to lithuania as well as to the rest of europe.
in writing. − i supported the report, as i believe that access to cultural and educational information must be a priority in order to improve educational and living standards in europe. in view of the benefits for all eu citizens of accessing ‘europeana’ library, its availability in all the official languages should be envisaged as soon as possible. as also people with disabilities should have the benefit of digital technology and enjoy easier access to education and information through accessible formats and adapted technologies. the availability of ‘europeana’ should be improved ensuring free-of-charge access for pupils, students and teachers in secondary schools, universities and other educational institutions. therefore it is essential to guarantee and simplify universal access to european cultural heritage and to ensure that it be promoted and preserved for generations to come.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is essential to pursue a european animal welfare policy and to legislate for common animal welfare standards in the european union. good animal health and good livestock conditions are important not only for the welfare of animals but also for public health in general. given that all animals are considered sentient beings under community legislation, it is necessary to strengthen animal welfare checks and to ensure that animal protection standards are respected. unfortunately, the commission did not develop a specific strategy on animal welfare standards during this period and limited itself to a report submitted in october 2009. i support the european parliament's call for the commission to draw up a new action plan for the period 2011-2015 and to provide the necessary funding for it. the eu budget must provide sufficient funds to enable the commission to monitor, support producers where necessary and combat the decline in competitiveness resulting from the adoption of new and revised animal welfare standards. member states must also ensure that effective penalties are applied for breaches of eu animal welfare legislation. it is therefore only by strengthening animal protection legislation and its implementation that the protection of animals and the avoidance of non-compliant livestock products on the internal market can be ensured.
in writing. − i gave my full support to this report. the upcoming cap reform will have to take into account many issues, including climate change. it is already clear that climate change will have a negative impact on eu agriculture, especially in the south and south-east regions. the new cap, thus, will have to meet growing public demand for a more sustainable agricultural policy. for the time being, the cap does not address environmental issues in a consistent manner. the new challenges of climate change, water management, renewable energies and biodiversity were not fully taken on board at the time of the cap health check. i am certain that the cap must be turned into an agricultural , food and environment policy with fairer and more sustainable farmer support systems while ensuring the preservation of rural areas, biodiversity conservation , carbon capture and food security.
in writing. − climate change can affect agriculture, including water shortages, new diseases and heat-related deaths. agriculture can help to slow down climate change, but it should also be prepared to adapt to the effects of global warming. the cap must recognise the impact of global warming and take action to mitigate climate change. this can be achieved by promoting sustainable and renewable energy, carbon storage in the soil and limiting greenhouse gas emissions. however, the costs associated with cap adaptation and climate change mitigation are still unclear. a detailed cost-benefit analysis is required. climate change is a real threat, but better management of resources is needed in the near future. eu enlargement has had a major impact on eu agriculture. the then 6 million eu farmers were joined by 7 million farmers. rural areas cover 90% of the eu's territory, and more than half of them are used for farming. this fact alone underlines the importance of farming for the eu's natural environment. at the warsaw meeting in february 2010, lithuania and the other 8 eu countries signed a declaration on the new cap, thus continuing to show solidarity and fairness. europe must not be divided into 'new' and 'old' member states. a strong european agricultural policy is needed to guarantee european farmers a stable and fair income beyond 2013 and to mitigate climate change.
in writing. − i voted for this report . i am convinced that europe will only reap benefits of the digital revolution if all eu citizens are mobilised and empowered to participate fully in the new digital society. this requires many challenges, such as commitment to long-term investments, confidence by the governments to move more strongly to e-government and confidence by citizens to use the digital services. to attain those goals it is necessary the significantly reduce digital literacy and competence gaps by 2015 . i especially welcome the proposals which seek to ensure that all primary and secondary schools have high speed connections by 2015 and that all adults of working age should be offered ict training opportunities. in order to have a competitive digital agenda we must start from the people.
in writing. − progress has been made in implementing the 2008 budget, but the number of errors detected in the structural and cohesion funds, rural development, research, energy and transport remains high. the amount of the wrongly paid amounts to 11%. this results in complex rules and regulations that member states must comply with. therefore, in the implementation of the budget for the coming years, particular attention should be paid to simplifying those rules and regulations, improving the mechanism for the recovery of undue payments and introducing more effective supervision and control systems. the implementation of these measures is likely to improve the implementation of the community budget, to ensure more effective control of budgetary resources and to provide greater added value for the development of the various economic and other sectors for projects carried out by the member states.
in writing. − the european union is a partner of latin america. we must tackle today's challenges and global problems together. these include the economic and financial crisis, climate change, security threats, the fight against terrorism, drug trafficking and organised crime. we must work together to protect the environment, conserve natural resources, and also fight poverty and inequality and migration. i voted in favour of this report because it proposes the right measures to combat poverty in the region: education and reducing the gap between the richest and poorest countries in the region. the eu has solidarity funds and also promotes integration projects, whereas latin america does not. i agree with the rapporteur that following latin america as an example of eu integration will make the region stronger. and it will bring greater security and prosperity to its inhabitants.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution, as i believe that the ongoing negotiations towards a comprehensive economic trade agreement could strengthen eu-canada relations. it is expected that the forthcoming eu-canada summit would focus on reinforcement of the political relationship between the two partners, in particular addressing such shared challenges as negotiations on a comprehensive economic trade agreement, foreign and security challenges, a coordinated response to the financial and economic crisis as also climate change and energy. as the eu and canada are committed to build a low-carbon global economy that is safe and sustainable, also to invest in clean energy technologies and become the leaders in green job creation in order the capacity to adapt to the impacts of climate change would be strengthened.
in writing. − i supported this resolution, since it is important to have an agreement which would help both europe and the united states strengthen the fight against terrorism in the interests of the security of the citizens, without undermining the rule of law. fundamental principles still need to be laid down by the eu stating how it will generally cooperate with the us for counter-terrorism purposes. therefore it goes under the responsibility of the commission and the council to explore ways of establishing a transparent and legally sound procedure for the authorisation of the transfer and extraction of relevant data as well as for the conduct and supervision of data exchanges. such steps are to be taken in full compliance with the principles of necessity and proportionality and with full respect for fundamental rights requirements under eu law, which would make it possible for relevant european legislation to become fully applicable.
in writing. − we must seek to strengthen transatlantic cooperation in the fields of justice, freedom and security, with respect for human rights and civil liberties. the system for the protection of personal data shall be implemented in a transparent and unambiguous manner. european legal requirements for the fair, proportionate and lawful processing of personal information are of paramount importance and must be respected at all times. the exchange of target data is not possible at present. the decisions should provide for limitations on the volume of data to be transmitted, the types of data that the designated suppliers may filter and sample, and the list of data that may be transmitted. it is therefore of particular importance to encourage the council and the commission to examine ways of establishing a transparent and legally sound procedure for the authorisation of the transfer and the selection of the data concerned, as well as for the exchange of data and the supervision of data exchange. the eu-us agreement must provide for strict enforcement and oversight safeguards regarding the selection of data transferred on a daily basis, the access to and the use of data transferred under the agreement by us authorities. provision should be made for an appropriate eu-designated authority to monitor the implementation of these measures.
in writing. − i supported this resolution. whereas in our digital age, data protection, the right of informational self-determination, personal rights and the right to privacy have become values that play an ever increasing role and must therefore be protected with special care. in order to protect these rights in an appropriate way it should be ensured that all transfers of personal data from the eu and its member states to third countries for security purposes are based on international agreements with the status of legislative acts. even more the use of pnr data should be based on a single set of principles that would serve as a basis for agreements with third countries and must be in line with european data protection standards.
in writing. − i agree with the suggestions in this european parliament resolution that a privacy impact assessment and a reasonable proportionality approach should be followed before adopting a new legal measure, as it is necessary to assess whether existing legal measures are inadequate. in today's world, where technology and mobility are essential, individual rights and the right to privacy have become values that need to be safeguarded and carefully protected. i agree with parliament's call for the examination of the measures for advance passenger information and passenger data recording, since the fight against crime must at the same time ensure that the existing measures are proportionate and do not infringe the fundamental rights of the individual. the transfer of passenger data must therefore comply with european union data protection standards and the data must be used only in relation to specific crimes or risks. given the use of passenger data records for security purposes, the conditions for data transfers need to be established in international agreements with the eu, ensuring legal certainty for eu citizens and airlines. the new eu agreements also need to provide for appropriate supervisory and control measures to coordinate the transfer and use of passenger data records.
in writing. − i did support this resolution as raised many concerns both in the european parliament and outside it. cyanide has been recognised as a highly toxic chemical used in the gold-mining industry and which qualifies as a main pollutant and can have catastrophic and irreversible impact on human health and environment. this chemical has caused the largest ecological disaster in the history of central europe. it is unfortunate that no clear rules are being established at the eu level and cyanide continues to be used in gold miming putting the workers and environment at a great risk. i believe that only a complete ban on cyanide mining technologies can protect our water resources and ecosystems against cyanide pollution.
today we are talking about what we would like to see in the european union in ten years' time. unemployment, especially among young people, is one of the european union's biggest problems today, and this unfortunately leads us to speak of today's young people as the lost generation of our times. we talk about creating jobs, we talk about protecting the environment, we talk about promoting youth entrepreneurship, we talk about supporting the education system, we talk about many other important elements, but we often talk about these as separate things, without seeing the big picture. the current proposals for the european union's europe 2020 strategy, unfortunately, leave a feeling that they may once again be empty words if we do not take into account the views of those who will have to implement this strategy, namely young people. the europe 2020 strategy is intended to be a bridge between the economy and the environment, which young people should help to build, so that it becomes an opportunity for young people to offer their knowledge and shape the future of the european union. as i am a representative of the same young people who are implementing the strategy, i have a few specific suggestions. in particular, let us encourage the creation of so-called green jobs, i.e. allowing for greater support for businesses that create and recruit young people for green jobs, whether in agriculture, manufacturing, transport or services. secondly, we should focus more on environmental protection, more specifically environmental education, both by integrating it into curricula and by developing new disciplines. by taking these two steps, we will attract more young people to the green economy, young people who have the knowledge, the skills and, i believe, the determination. it would be very desirable if there were as little scepticism and unremembered comparisons as we have heard today in this parliament as possible, and as much determination and optimism and focus as possible.
in writing. europe is experiencing a difficult year caused by the global economic crisis and the recovery remains fragile, with member states paying different prices to emerge from the crisis. the european union needs a new strategy that focuses on creating new jobs, investing in education, providing lifelong learning opportunities and improving living conditions. i would like to highlight one of the commission's key commitments to reduce poverty in europe and increase social inclusion. however, i would point out that in order to implement this commitment, it is necessary to take concrete measures, such as the establishment of mandatory minimum social standards and minimum incomes throughout the eu, and to develop additional measures to ensure social protection for the most vulnerable groups in society. i would also like to point out that the objectives set out in the new strategy are one common european objective to be pursued by both national and eu-wide action. i therefore urge the commission to engage in dialogue with the member states to ensure that national decisions are in line with the eu's main objectives, because only then will the strategy deliver concrete results and not just a set of pretty slogans.
mr adamkau, the european investment bank's support for small and medium-sized enterprises has become particularly important in the wake of the financial and economic crisis in europe. i welcome the bank's decision to increase lending to smes by 42% in 2008 compared to the previous year, as they represent 99% of all enterprises in the european union and employ more than 100 million people. given that the economic crisis is not yet over and the unemployment rate is still rising, it is necessary to seek further support from the european investment bank to increase lending opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises, improve their access to capital and simplify complex bureaucratic rules in order to finance projects more quickly and efficiently, especially in the member states and sectors most affected by the crisis. in addition to the support for the companies i have mentioned, the eib should continue to pay close attention to financing the development of sustainable, competitive and secure energy and sustainable transport infrastructure.
mr president, we should applaud the important role the european investment bank plays in the reconstruction of our economies in the difficult times most of our countries are facing. my country, lithuania, is a case in point. the eib plays a role in the national stimulus package, especially when it comes to enhancing financing for small and medium-sized enterprises, but also financing renewable-energy and transport projects. i would nevertheless urge european governments to provide the eib with a more significant lending capacity to our neighbours, especially those in the east, that are also suffering from the effects of the crisis and are highly in need of loans and investments. especially needed are investments in the hard sectors, such as transport, environment and, last but not least, energy. the last one is of particular importance, especially knowing the energy infrastructure problems that... (the president cut off the speaker.)
mr president, i would like to express my deep regret at the violence that broke out in the area of jos and caused the deaths of several hundred people. this has been just another example of the importance of the reconciliation process that has to be enacted to enable peaceful coexistence between the northern muslim population and the southern christian population. i would like to let you know that, in large part, the atrocities take place because of the hardships and the oppression of those inhabitants that live in the oil-rich areas and do not benefit from the overall development of the country. we urge the nigerian authorities to make sure that more equitable and democratic development of all social groups in the country is ensured and that basic human rights are protected and enforced. finally, especially today, my sympathy goes to the nigerian people on the death of their president.
a number of countries have experienced really big shocks during this economic downturn, and a number of european union countries have seen falls of over 10%. the european union's attention is therefore crucial not only to the old member states of the european union but also to those that have recently joined the european union and benefit from the structural funds and the social fund. the structural funds are an important instrument to help member states recover from a severe economic downturn. so by simplifying the requirements for the absorption of the structural funds, i think we can do this much more efficiently.
it is very gratifying that this document was adopted by a large majority, i.e. almost without opposition. and this is understandable, because health affects us, each of us, and our loved ones. and i congratulate the european parliament and all the citizens of the european union, as well as the rapporteur, on the fact that today's decisions should lead to more concrete and targeted action, not only to treat cancer but also to prevent cancer. unfortunately, the prognosis for cancer is actually very scary, and we need to focus our efforts to beat it. i voted in favour of this document because i believe that an integrated approach to cancer and the fight against it should be considered as a crucial part of the health strategy of both the european community and the member states. collective and coordinated action by member states is needed to reduce the risk of cancer.
mr president, i support the commission’s white paper and the report by mr prodi. i think that such a white paper is especially needed in the aftermath of the copenhagen climate change talks. the results that we saw in copenhagen are definitely not enough. the non-binding document that was agreed in copenhagen to halt global warming at +2°c would still mean a warming scenario for europe, something that would be marked by extreme regional climate changes. we need to pay special attention to the way we produce our energy. we need to make stronger efforts to set up a tangible common energy policy. we must support research into environmentally friendly technologies, but also set up clear policy frameworks on how renewable-energy technologies can be introduced and mainstreamed in our economies. i hope this white paper will push the eu in the right direction and will result in some tangible policy action.
mr president, i welcome the fact that the total amount of irregularities in the way european funds are being used is declining. the fact that the amount of irregularities in the agricultural sector fell so dramatically by 34% is especially encouraging. a strong and competitive role for olaf is among the factors that helped to improve the situation. i welcome the proposal enshrined in our resolution to increase cooperation among eu member states in the area of taxation. however, i want to express my deep concern about the fact that fraudulent activities increased in the new member states, especially romania and bulgaria. in eu-10 they grew by 8% while debt for the eu-2 increased by 152%. i want to express my strong support for the calls on romania and bulgaria to build up their administrative capacity to manage eu funding and improve the supervision and transparency of public procurement procedures at all levels.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr deutsch for his excellent report. today’s substantive discussion and our resolution, which i supported, is an excellent starting point for the future activities of the european investment bank, especially taking into account the eu 2020 strategy. in addition, i would like once again to urge the european governments to provide the eib with a more significant lending capacity to our neighbours, especially those in the east, who are highly in need of loans and investments, and who are also suffering from the effects of the crisis. compatibility between the policy goals of the european neighbourhood policy and the lending directions of the eib should be ensured in the future even more than before.
mr president, in january and march we witnessed mass atrocities in nigeria which caused the deaths of several hundred people, including women and children. what is necessary for nigeria is first of all a reconciliation process and the peaceful coexistence between muslims living in the north and christians living in the south. secondly, taking into account that, despite nigeria being one of the biggest oil producers in the world, most of its people still live in poverty. they do not benefit from the overall development of the country so corruption, which is widespread, has to be challenged and fought effectively and seriously. thirdly, european union assistance to nigeria should address the most important problems, the most sensitive issues in order to achieve at least some visible progress in this country.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the european partnership against cancer, proposed by the european commission for the period 2009-2013, is an excellent initiative to take a more active role in the fight against this terrible disease. the fight against cancer is one of the main areas of community action in the field of public health, with 3.2 million europeans diagnosed with cancer each year, the second leading cause of death after heart disease. the aim of the partnership proposed by the commission is to support the member states of the european union in the fight against cancer and to enable the identification and sharing of information, capacity and knowledge in the field of cancer prevention and control. i would like to point out that only by involving all eu stakeholders in collective action to fight cancer can we significantly reduce the number of cancer cases in europe. i agree with the european parliament's call for the commission and the member states to further develop and consolidate initiatives providing support directly or indirectly to people suffering from cancer. i also agree that the commission and the member states must ensure that cancer medicines are equally available to all patients who need them in all member states. this partnership launched by the commission to fight cancer is therefore a major step towards a pan-european social and political partnership to reduce the burden of cancer in europe.
in writing. − cancer is the biggest health problem in europe and even worldwide. sadly, cancer is still an epidemic today. over 3 million people are diagnosed with cancer in the eu each year and 1.7 million die from it. it is the second-largest killer in terms of mortality and morbidity. currently, one in three people in the eu will be diagnosed with cancer in their lifetime, and experts predict that the burden of cancer will increase dramatically as a result of an ageing population. urgent action is needed to improve cancer control and prevention in the eu. the situation in lithuania is particularly bad. statistical indicators of the incidence of various cancers are among the worst in the eu. i therefore particularly welcome the ep resolution on the fight against cancer, which, in the context of the enlarged eu-ec european partnership against cancer for the period 2009-2013, is a new attempt to bring together stakeholders to work together. cancer is not only a health problem, but also a social and political problem. it requires joint action at european, national, regional and local levels. i would like to stress that the treaty of lisbon clearly defines the union's competence to support, coordinate and complement the actions of the member states. our collective objective is to help member states fight cancer by providing a system for identifying and sharing information, capacity and knowledge in the field of cancer prevention and control.
in writing. − i support the ec's initiative to use information and communication technologies (ict) to improve the union's energy efficiency and increase the competitiveness of european industry. according to the ec's calculations, ict is a great tool for reducing energy consumption and, crucially, for reducing carbon emissions by up to 27%. so the damage to the environment would be reduced. i fully agree with and support the rapporteur's position that the use of ict will stimulate european industry and the market for new technologies, which should contribute to the revival of the market or the creation of new jobs. i believe that every effort should be made to introduce ict both in those member states where it has not yet been introduced and to improve it where it is already in use. i would like to stress in particular the importance of ict in planning the new european transport policy. logistics is an important factor in streamlining transport and reducing co2 emissions. it is important to recognise the need to increase public and private investment in ict tools in order to create an advanced energy infrastructure in transport. advanced transport systems for road and other modes of transport can reduce congestion and its negative environmental impact. as a member of the regi committee, i would like to emphasise the need to encourage the exchange of good practice between member states and to encourage local decision-makers to be more aware of the potential of information and communication technologies that must be exploited.
in writing. − i would like to emphasise that the fight against fraud and corruption is an important responsibility of the european institutions and of all states. however, i would like to draw particular attention to the fact that in some countries corruption in the allocation of european union funds is directly linked to the discrediting of policies within these countries. separate political and financial clans are emerging in these countries, seeking to control the distribution of eu funds. the european parliament, the european commission and the other major institutions of the european union should therefore be alert to the discrimination and discrediting of politicians, political organisations, political opponents and opposition leaders at national level. as a promoter of democracy, the european union must first and foremost ensure that its member opposition parties are able to work, express themselves and monitor anti-corruption actions. it would also be good to point out that the european union's money should be used to improve the infrastructure of the member states, to educate people, etc. investing european money only in infrastructure would benefit both the country and its businesses. there would be no more desperate businessmen asking for help but not getting it. moreover, this would not have to control the distribution of eu funds to thousands of beneficiaries, which would mean that thousands of racketeering entities would disappear. so all the focus would be on the public use of that money.
on 24 february, together with the representatives of latvia and poland, i submitted a written statement on equal treatment for agricultural workers, which highlighted the unequal funding of farmers in the community countries. the level of benefits varies from one community country to another by up to seven times, with an average of four times, and many of the new member states are below the union average. such a situation is contrary to one of the community's most important principles, the principle of solidarity. i call on the council, the commission and parliament to harmonise direct payments or at least to reduce the disparities, and at the same time to put an end to the disparate treatment of farmers in the member states. i would ask my colleagues in the european parliament to support the aforementioned written statement no 11 on equal treatment for agricultural workers in the european union.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. in politics, there is rarely an opportunity to present proposals and measures as a win-win solution. today we have such an opportunity: the forthcoming adoption of the revised directive on the energy performance of buildings. buildings account for 40% of energy demand and 36% of carbon dioxide emissions in the eu. implementing economic measures to reduce energy consumption in homes can make a significant contribution to achieving our 2020 greenhouse gas reduction and energy saving targets. we are also strengthening our energy security and creating growth and jobs in the construction sector. the newly adopted directive on the energy performance of buildings is helping to raise national building codes to a more ambitious level in terms of energy consumption in homes and is helping to reduce consumers' energy bills. energy efficiency is the cheapest way to combat climate change. i would like to highlight three elements of the new directive which we consider to be a major step forward from the situation as it stands. firstly, the national building codes for new construction and renovation will result in buildings that are significantly more energy efficient. this directive also covers smaller buildings of less than 1 000 m2 and minor energy-related renovations, as well as the replacement of boilers or windows. secondly, the new version will improve the information available to our citizens. homeowners and tenants are well informed with concrete information on the energy consumption and energy saving potential of a building. the aim is to stimulate the market for the construction of low-energy houses and for large-scale renovations. third, all new buildings must meet the ultra-rigorous low-energy building standard from 2020. the commission also proposes that member states draw up national action plans to increase the number of buildings in the eu to the lowest energy building standard. for all these reasons, the new directive is a success of european energy policy. i thank the members of this parliament and you, mrs ţicău, for the good cooperation you have shown in the past few months and also for the unusually rapid adoption of the directive. they have already stressed that the new approach can only achieve its full energy saving potential if it is implemented effectively and rapidly and if there are supporting instruments. to this end, we must make better use of existing financial instruments, such as the european regional development fund, where the possibility of calling up 4% of the budget for energy efficiency measures has so far been little used by the member states. we also want to support the efforts of the member states to transform the building stock. we are preparing these days - as already announced in the committee on industry - to redistribute at least eur 150 million of uncalled funds from the european economic recovery programme to projects in the field of renewable energy and energy efficiency. i am sure that with the support of this parliament we are taking an important step today. thank you all for your cooperation.
on behalf of the s&d group first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleague silvia ţicău on her hard work in preparing this important report. the agreement reached with the council is, in my view, very ambitious, representing a new leap in quality for the whole sector. it is therefore essential that member states now implement the provisions of the directive properly and in a timely manner. the issue of energy performance of buildings is of particular relevance in the context of the overall internal energy market. the building sector is one of the sectors with the greatest potential for energy savings in the european union. this is particularly relevant for residents of the new countries of the european union, as these countries have the highest number of old and energy-poor residential buildings, and residents living in them and earning the lowest incomes are forced to pay the most for utilities. the approach to near-zero energy consumption in buildings means that the cartel for builders is set even higher than has been the case in the past in the discussion of passive house technologies. it is indeed very important, and i repeat, very ambitious, and it is to be hoped, commissioner, that it will be put into practice.
as many have already said, the most cost-effective way to achieve energy security is to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by saving energy. i would like to join in congratulating all my colleagues, especially the rapporteur, and all the other colleagues, on the successful revision of the directive. the building sector, as a whole, has a great deal of untapped potential not only for energy saving but also for creating new jobs and new technologies. for example, in lithuania, my home country, over 80 percent of the buildings are more than 20 years old. and it's very uneconomical to do that. the revision of this energy performance of buildings directive is therefore very timely and necessary in the current crisis. the agreement reached with the council on the new wording of the directive was well balanced full account was taken of the principle of subsidiarity. the minimum requirements for new and renovated buildings laid down in the directive will help to optimise the use of energy resources and save money for citizens and the state. meanwhile, stricter building certification and information rules will encourage citizens to change their consumption habits. mr president, it has been said many times, but i would like to stress once again that the success of the directive will depend on its rapid implementation in the member states. this requires the provision of effective financial support measures at both member state and european union level. energy efficiency, one of the priorities of the european union, should also become a policy priority for each member state.
i voted in favour of this report and i think it is important to note that women in the european union are still paid on average 17.4% less per hour than men. over the past 15 years, this gap has narrowed only slightly, and in some countries it has even widened. i support parliament's calls for regular reports on pay disparities in the european union and i support all measures that help reduce discrimination against women in the european union.
madam president, i would like to express my concern regarding the situation of banana producers in the canary islands, guadeloupe, martinique and madeira, which the treaty include among the outermost regions. their situation has been made more difficult especially since the eu, within the world trade organisation, concluded an agreement with latin american countries on lowering tariffs for banana imports from that region. i would like to draw attention to the fact that in 2006 the eu reformed its common market organisation for bananas. it committed budgetary funds for aid to banana producers in those regions. since the reform, the eu has committed eur 208 million each year to supporting banana producers in the canaries, the french antilles, madeira and, to a lesser extent, in the azores. although we should welcome such support, for many banana producers this support will not be enough. so i would like to urge the competent institutions to adopt the necessary measures to ensure that traditional branches of the economy in the eu are not compromised for more strategic trade goals.
in writing. − the eu has identified the building sector as one of the most promising areas for energy savings. energy-efficient buildings save on average 30% of energy compared to conventional buildings. in the new eu countries, as well as in lithuania, many apartment blocks waste about 60% of their heat energy. there are over 35,000 of these apartment buildings in lithuania alone. not only do their residents pay huge sums for heating, but they are responsible for tons of co2 emissions. the conservative government in lithuania is unable to start heating the buildings. after nearly two years of promises that renovations would soon begin, not a single building had been renovated. i voted in favour of this recommendation on the energy performance of buildings, as it sets the objective of achieving near-zero energy consumption in buildings. this will ensure that eu buildings become energy sustainable over time. implementing this directive will help the eu to reduce its energy consumption by one fifth by 2020. investments in energy efficiency will create millions of jobs and contribute to eu economic growth.
in writing. − the stockholm programme provides for the establishment of a robust and sustainable common asylum policy in the european union. however, the implementation and safeguarding of the objectives of the reception policy requires the encouragement of the voluntary participation of member states in the eu refugee resettlement scheme, and the european parliament therefore seeks to give as many member states as possible the opportunity to participate in eu refugee resettlement schemes. the european parliament supports the commission's proposal and considers that the resettlement of refugees should be one of the key aspects of the eu's external asylum policy. it should be further developed and extended to become an effective safeguard measure for the eu.
in writing. − the purpose of this proposal is to ensure the transition from the schengen information system, which is currently in its sis 1+ form, to the second generation schengen information system (sis ii). it is indeed regrettable that the start of the system is delayed. the european parliament has made every effort to ensure that the system is operational as soon as possible and that the implementation process of sis ii is fully transparent, but it is necessary to seek the agreement of all the institutions. it is important to note that the commission should apply an alternative programme in the event of the failure of the sis ii project and that parliament should be involved in the decision-making process on the transition. the commission should inform the european parliament in detail of the results of the tests before the transition to the new sis ii system, while giving the parliament the opportunity to express its opinion.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the issue of refugees remains of great concern to the community. currently, the resettlement of refugees in the european union is not properly coordinated and only 10 member states resettle refugees annually, which reduces the strategic use of resettlement as an eu external policy instrument. i welcome the commission's decision to set up a european asylum support office, which will be able to provide support to member states in implementing relocation initiatives while ensuring policy coordination at community level.
in writing. − i supported this report because i believe that the eu needs to improve the quality of education and training. unfortunately, the guidelines set out in the lisbon strategy will not be implemented before the end of 2010. despite the progress made in recent years, many european citizens still lack the necessary skills and one third have very low levels of education. another concern is the growing number of young people who leave school early and do not acquire any qualifications later on. i think it is very important to start implementing policies to raise the quality of education and training in the member states as soon as possible. the european commission, together with the member states and employers, should work closely with the developers of education and training programmes, ensuring higher levels of education and a wider range of applications and meeting the needs of the professional sectors and the labour market.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it is a very good time to review the education and learning objectives set out in the lisbon strategy and to assess what has failed in this area. it is good to see that the new europe 2020 strategy has among its main objectives the improvement of education levels, the reduction of the number of out-of-school children and the increase in the proportion of people with tertiary education or equivalent. first of all, i would like to point out that the rapid development of information and new technologies is making the educational environment increasingly complex and diverse, and that it is necessary to adapt to the new needs of a changing world. it is therefore necessary to reform and improve curricula in schools and universities to meet the changing needs of the market. secondly, i call for greater efforts to increase literacy and skills training for the socially disadvantaged. one of the main objectives of this programme is to modernise vocational training and higher education. this means that it is necessary to maintain contacts with the business world and to provide new, more attractive prospects for qualifications and mobility for those in vocational training. i am pleased that the european parliament has given great attention to the need to facilitate the integration of people with disabilities in education and learning. i also agree that adequate funding is needed to ensure the integration of people with disabilities in learning.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the european seatbelt law is taking effect as a painful, strict measure. sacrifices and compromises are already commonplace in most eu sectors, but it is important (especially in times of economic difficulty) that we do not abandon our commitments in key policy areas such as education. education is something worth fighting for, as history has shown - whether it's in the nazi-occupied european underground educational institutions or the dissident "flying university" of stalin's time. the global economic crisis means that we are again forced to adapt. vocational education and training must be adapted to the needs of the labour market. the european literacy rate needs to be improved in this area, europe lags far behind the us and japan. we have to fill the void. it is important not only to raise the literacy, numeracy and digital skills of young people, but also of unemployed adults from the lower socioeconomic class. lifelong learning from cradle to grave also known as 'second chance' programmes for adults with limited capacity are important not only for accelerating the economy and the labour market, but also for social inclusion and active citizenship. our duty is to raise the standard of quality in education across europe and to create a more attractive image of education. it's a long fight, but it's worth it.
in writing. − i support this resolution because we all have a great responsibility to young people and future generations as policy-makers today. the european union has important instruments in youth policy, but member states are under-using, transferring and integrating them. concerns about the increase in the number of young people who are unemployed, underemployed and without employment guarantees, especially in the context of the current economic and financial crisis. it is essential that the youth dimension is included in the post-2010 lisbon strategy and in the eu 2020 strategy. i also support the proposal to include appropriate measures for young people in national economic recovery plans, as part of the economic and financial crisis response plans, and to ensure better integration of young people into the labour market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the development and implementation of an eu youth strategy is of great importance, especially at a time when the economic and financial crisis has had a negative impact on youth employment and continues to put their future well-being at risk. as the future of europe is young, it is our duty to help it by implementing a well-designed youth strategy. first, therefore, member states must ensure that all children and young people have access to public education and that everyone has equal educational opportunities, regardless of their social background and financial situation. i would like to draw attention to the urgent need to take measures to reduce the number of out-of-school children, as set out in the new europe 2020 strategy. only by improving the learning conditions for all young people and ensuring the right to education and training for all will we be able to give young people a foothold in the labour market. i would also like to stress the need to develop specific policies in the field of employment policy and the fight against youth unemployment. it is essential to promote youth entrepreneurship and to facilitate access to micro-credit and micro-finance instruments for young people.
in writing. − i voted for this document because i am part of the same young people who are shaping the future of the eu and i do not care what the future holds for me and my peers. one of the main problems facing young people in my country, lithuania, and in other eu countries, is unemployment, which is already causing the youth of today to be referred to as the lost generation of our times. another existing problem is the mismatch between the educational system and the needs of the labour market. while we welcome the commission's communication on a youth strategy, i am concerned that it, like many of the other strategies we adopt, may remain mere paper orders. we, the european parliament, the other eu institutions, the member states and the non-strategies, must realise that if we do not take care of young people now, all our other strategies, including the eu 2020 strategy, may not be implemented because there is simply no one left to implement them. i therefore call on the commission, the other responsible institutions and the member states to take concrete action as soon as possible to make this strategy a reality.
in writing. - the global economic crisis has dealt a severe blow to us all. the sad thing is that the people who have suffered the most are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are going to have to take our future. the financial tsunami of the past few years has left many young people unemployed or underemployed. according to the report, in most eu countries, the unemployment rate among young people has risen to almost double the rate of the working population as a whole. now we have the opportunity to turn this crisis into an opportunity. we owe it to the next generation of europeans. it is important for my country, lithuania, and for most of its neighbours, to prevent the increasing outflow of skilled workers, 'brains'. as the title of the report suggests, this can be achieved through investment and opportunity. education and employment are key areas from an investment perspective. a smoother transition between education and the labour market needs to be facilitated. but these essential investments will have limited impact if we do not provide opportunities for our young people. we need to encourage our young people to become more active citizens both socially and politically. the low voter turnout among young people in eastern europe requires a renewed interest in the political process. civil society and relevant ngos can support eu interests, for example the project 'my voice' has contributed to the political awareness of young people through innovative internet technologies. it is also necessary to establish a constructive dialogue with young people and youth organisations in europe, freeing them from bureaucratic knots and technical jargon.
in writing. − investing in human capital and social infrastructure is crucial to overcoming the economic downturn, enabling women and men to reach their full potential. the european union is now close to the lisbon strategy target of 60% female employment by 2010, but there is a great disparity in female employment across the member states. the commission and the member states must therefore take effective measures to implement the directive on the application of the principle of equal treatment between men and women engaged in an activity in a self-employed capacity as soon as possible. maternity protection for the spouse or cohabiting partner of a self-employed woman and, accordingly, of a self-employed person is of particular importance. it must be recognised that they require an allowance to enable them to cease their activities for a sufficient period of time to ensure the normal course of the pregnancy and the physical recovery of the mother after a normal birth, in order to provide women with an adequate maternity allowance. i therefore particularly welcome the rapporteur's opinion on the proposals for the second review of this directive. in addition, the commission's consultation on the new strategy 2020 does not pay sufficient attention to gender equality issues. the gender dimension needs to be strengthened and mainstreamed in the new strategy.
in writing. − i voted for this report not only because it is important and because i believe it will affect millions of eu citizens. i know a lot of artists, lawyers and other people who are going out on their own, and i know that very often they have family members who help them, usually their wives and children. the fact that they now have the right to social protection will undoubtedly improve their material situation, their mood and their motivation to work. this is particularly important for lithuania, as many families are now on the verge of extinction, especially as the crisis has hit the baltic states particularly hard. we cannot continue to watch from the sidelines how women or men in self-sustaining families suffer social injustice. the adoption of this report is a clear signal to eu governments to support the spouses of self-employed people, to guarantee their right to a pension, to paid leave, to maternity or paternity leave, and to help them reintegrate into the labour market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this regulation because i believe it will bring more clarity to both textile producers and consumers. the choice of the form of a regulation, which will bring together the separate directives currently in force, is welcome and will thus reduce the administrative burden on member states for the transposition into national legislation of the technical amendments required when a new textile fibre name is included in the list. however, i believe it is time to start talking about a revision of the labelling system for textiles that does not impose an additional burden on producers and is clearly understood and acceptable to consumers, i therefore support the proposals adopted in the regulation that the commission should examine in its report issues such as the labelling of clothing and footwear with uniform sized labels at eu level, the indication of components with dangerous or allergic effects, and the issues of eco- and social labelling.
in writing. − i have supported this document. the relations between the eu and ukraine have always been very close and based upon a constructive dialogue. the ukrainian economy, as the economies of the eu member states, has been hit by the international financial crisis which dramatically declined output, deteriorated fiscal position and raised external financial needs. union macro-financial assistance of eur 500 million should not merely supplement programmes and resources from the imf and the world bank but should ensure the added value of eu involvement. however, this assistance can only contribute to economic stabilisation in ukraine if the main political forces ensure political stability in the country and establish a broad consensus on a rigorous implementation of the necessary structural reforms.
in writing. − macro-financial assistance to ukraine is of particular importance at this time. this assistance can thus help to increase the eu's influence in shaping ukrainian policy and help ukraine to overcome the current deep economic crisis. the community's financial support demonstrates ukraine's strategic importance as a potential candidate for eu membership. the macro-financial assistance would be provided at a time when the eu is also helping to mobilise funding to support ukraine's energy sector reform. the commission and other relevant authorities shall prepare a package of support to the ukrainian authorities to help find a sustainable solution to ukraine's medium-term gas transit and gas payment obligations. while the proposed macro-financial assistance is not intended to be linked directly to this package, it would support the stabilisation of the ukrainian economy through reforms. i support this decision to grant exceptional macro-financial assistance to ukraine. without this support, ukraine would not be able to continue its full integration in many economic sectors and to achieve its further objectives.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the simplification of cap regulations and provisions that started in 2005 must be continued. the burden of red tape for farmers and other economic operators in the agricultural sector should be reduced and requirements that are not necessary to achieve policy objectives and ensure the proper management of taxpayers' money should be abolished. if we want to improve the competitiveness of the agricultural economy, create or maintain jobs and develop rural areas properly, the cap must be simplified. in some member states, there are a high number of errors in the application form, which hamper the timely receipt of aid by farmers. member states should establish schemes for potential beneficiaries that are simple, clear and transparent, and i would therefore urge the commission to include this issue in bilateral discussions with member states.
in writing. − i supported this report because a well-functioning and transparent public procurement system is essential for the internal market to promote cross-border competition, innovation and optimum benefit for public authorities. the objectives of the 2004 revision of the procurement directives, in particular the simplification of procurement rules and the provision of greater legal certainty, have not been achieved so far. the very high number of cases before the european court of justice for irregularities in the field of public procurement shows that the public service directives are not being properly implemented in the member states. e treaty of lisbon recognises for the first time in the primary law of the european union the right of regional and local authorities and strengthens subsidiarity. taking into account that the purpose of public procurement law is to ensure the sound and efficient use of public funds and to enable interested companies to participate in competitions on the basis of fair competition, i would urge the commission to simplify public procurement procedures in order to help local authorities and companies avoid the high costs of time and money associated with dealing with purely bureaucratic issues and to ensure greater opportunities for smes to participate in public procurement on a more equal and fairer basis.
in writing. − public procurement accounts for a significant proportion of the member states' budgets and i therefore agree with the rapporteur that all measures must be taken to ensure that public funds are used transparently and are available for public scrutiny. public contracts must be concluded on transparent terms, with equal rights for all interested parties and with the price-performance ratio as the main criterion in order to award the contract to the best tenderer rather than to the lowest bidder. to increase the transparency of public procurement, it is necessary to simplify procurement procedures in order to help local authorities and companies avoid the high costs of time and money associated with dealing with purely bureaucratic issues. this will also give small and medium-sized enterprises more opportunities to participate in public procurement and to participate on a more equal and fairer basis. the commission's attention to the procedure for applying social criteria is particularly important in the context of globalisation processes and therefore guidelines or other practical assistance are needed to provide particular information to public authorities and other public institutions in preparing sustainability-related public procurement.
in writing. − the sanctioning systems in the eu member states vary widely, making the legal situation difficult for operators, especially drivers in international transport. the current regulations and the directive on social rules for road traffic leave a wide margin of interpretation for the member states, which has led to a heterogeneous implementation of these laws across the member states. the lisbon treaty provides for the possibility of harmonising the provisions of national criminal and other laws. i believe that the commission must take this opportunity to develop and promote harmonised approaches to control and regulatory action to remove obstacles to the european internal market and to improve road safety. in order to ensure the most effective implementation of social rules in road transport, the commission should develop a uniform and binding interpretation of this regulation on driving and rest periods, which should be taken into account by the national control authorities.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, the review conference of the international criminal court (icc) is a long-awaited and important event in the evolution of the court itself and, more broadly, international criminal justice. the review conference is a good opportunity for the stakeholders to consider the existing deficiencies of the icc and propose possible changes or directions for reform. i would like to mention several issues that eu member states, as well as the ep delegation, should have on the agenda. one of the issues is certainly the position of our transatlantic partners on the icc. i would like to point out that the lack of participation of the united states in the icc is the single most important factor reducing the relevance and authority of the icc. it would therefore be very useful if our american partners could express more clearly their current position and commitment to the icc. i would also like to urge the eu to insist on discussing – and hopefully revising – article 124, also known as the transitional provision, of the rome statute, which allows states to choose not to have their nationals subject to the icc’s jurisdiction over war crimes for a seven-year period after the ratification of the statute. this is a regrettable loophole that should be removed from the rome statute. last but not least, i would like to point out that the eu should strive for the widest ratification and implementation of the rome statute in relations with those countries that have not yet done so. it must be an objective of the eu during the enlargement negotiations and accession phases of the new eu member states. it should be high on the agenda in our dealings with russia as well, especially taking into account the fact that we are currently negotiating the modalities of the partnership agreement with our russian partners.
madam president, the treaty of lisbon recognises the importance of the availability and accessibility of social services and the roles played by local and regional authorities in providing these. the issues of social housing are of extreme importance to people with low incomes, and it is a reality that the crisis has left a large number of people unemployed, who are in need of social housing. currently, member states apply different standards when deciding their criteria for social housing. it is understandable that the economic and social situations differ significantly in the member states. in order to implement the right of access to universal services, i believe it would be reasonable to define general principles and to set the recommended upper income limit at eu level. however, we need to allow broad discretion for the member states to make this lower, taking into account economic and social differences.
i think the whole world is really confused and watching these events that are going on today on the gulf coast. no one could have foreseen or predicted that such a great nation, the leading nation in the world, america, would not face what at first glance seemed like the possibilities. and i think we, and europe, are putting a lot of money, a lot of human resources into solving the climate change problem. but nature still makes its own demands. and i think it is very good that we will have the opportunity to learn from the mistakes of others, but i would also like to remind you once again of the problem of the northern gas pipeline, and i think that we, europe, will be politically responsible for the operation of this gas pipeline, and therefore i would certainly encourage the commissioner to review the operating conditions of this gas project once again, and i also welcome the opportunity and the desire to strengthen the european, european rescue force.
for the efd group i will not repeat the thoughts expressed by most of the speakers on the consequences of the icelandic volcano, the closure of airspace, the losses to airlines and consumers, i.e. passengers who were trapped in airports. it is good to hear today that decisions on the creation of a single european sky are coming and that the airspace coordinator has already been operational since may, as we heard from the commissioner. however, while we are not sure today that we will be able to coordinate such or somewhat similar volatile situations in the future, i think we should consider how to develop and give more attention to other, alternative modes of passenger transport and mobility, such as the railway, mentioned by the german representative. in our region, the baltic region, which is represented by lithuania, latvia, estonia (which is on the periphery of north-eastern europe), this situation with the volcanic eruption has particularly highlighted our need for good rail connections, and i am referring to the rail baltics project. i understand that other regions in europe may have the same problem, not much better (or what?), but i am talking about my region today, and therefore i would like to see that in such cases we have the possibility, through poland, of connecting our railway line with poland, to connect with western and central europe. otherwise we will be cut off from the european union's communications system. other countries have railways and perhaps mobile trains, but our three baltic states do not yet have them. i would therefore ask the commission whether it will pay sufficient attention in the near future to the proper implementation of alternative mobile projects. with the assistance of the european union, will the necessary political will be achieved and mobilised and will alternative means of transport for passengers be provided to avoid such consequences in similar crisis situations?
the consequences of the volcanic ash crisis have had a negative impact on the transport system across europe, with the ash of the erupting volcano causing the cancellation of more than 100 000 flights and disrupting the journeys of 10 million passengers. the crisis has particularly affected the eastern european union, which has remained completely cut off from the western european part and, unlike the other member states of the european union, has had no alternative transport options. this is further proof of the importance of developing transport infrastructure, developing trans-european transport networks and creating a system of alternative means of transport for both freight and passengers. the commission therefore considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted in accordance with the rules on state aid. it is essential to develop a transport system that ensures not only efficient passenger transport but also the smooth functioning of the economy. i agree with the suggestions made about the implementation of additional links and would therefore call for support for the project of a competitive european rail freight corridor, which would link the baltic states mentioned above with other western european countries and create added value for the community as a whole. the project would also provide an alternative to air transport for the region's inhabitants.
i also voted in favour of this important document, the human organ transplantation quality standards. and it would be really good to have a system of organ transplantation that is transparent and clean, that is quality and safety at the european union level, and that is developed and regulated at community level. this is one of the more important goals. there are 56,000 citizens waiting for donors, and this shortage of organs for transplantation is causing other problems, criminal activity, criminal problems. i therefore believe that this document will contribute to the development of an appropriate framework to ensure safe and reliable organ transplantation.
mr president, i voted in favour of the resolution on the transplantation of human organs. many people die every day because they suffer from organ failure and because organs are unavailable. the eu can help patients waiting for organs across europe and as a consequence save lives. what we need is a well-coordinated system of organ donation and transplantation. i would like to stress once again a very important point, which is a political point: namely the principle of voluntary and paid donation for human body parts. reports from the world health organisation and the council of europe say that in several countries in the world people are given a great deal of money to donate an organ. there are even reports that people are deliberately killed to get their organs: for example, practitioners of falun gong in china. we are also aware of cases in some countries where the medical risk for the donor is high and the transplantation is often done under very bad medical conditions. so, finally, i would like to thank those who initiated the resolution we adopted today, and especially our rapporteur mr mikolášik.
this is a rather sensitive subject indeed, and one which has generated a lot of debate in the european parliament and, of course, in the public. i do not think that banning a product or additive is the answer, and i would perhaps have to agree with the argument that perhaps it is the consumer who has the right to choose, with all the information he has, what he wants to buy and what he wants to consume. on the other hand, it would be quite difficult to control the process. and in this age of public knowledge, in this age of information, we haven't yet formulated a socially acceptable, clear, un-speculative formulation where the person buying a product can actually get the right information and understand what the ingredients are in a product. so i think there's a lack of consultation with the same public, with their education, and maybe some additional consultation with scientists.
i voted in favour of the resolution on the conference on the revision of the rome statute of the international criminal court, which will begin at the end of this month in kampala, uganda. in 1998, 138 states agreed to establish the international criminal court and adopted the rome statute, which has been the basis for the court's work for seven years, since 2003. it is time to review the rome statute, in particular the so-called 'interim provisions' which were not agreed in 2002. all eu member states have ratified the rome statute. but some of our partners, such as the united states, russia and china, have not joined the icc's work. today, in its resolution, the european parliament again called on these countries to ratify the rome statute and to cooperate with the international criminal court. in the 21st century, those responsible for genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes must not only be morally condemned by the international community, but also be held to account in a legal sense. there can be no impunity for such crimes.
in writing. - i have supported this important report. the energy labelling directive plays a crucial role in achieving the eu's 20% energy efficiency target by 2020. to this end, it has a key role to play in the fight against climate change, in the transition of the eu towards an efficient, sustainable and competitive economy and in strengthening europe's energy security. our aim is to create conditions and conditions that benefit both the market and consumers by ensuring that each consumer has access to the right information and that each person fully understands the impact of the choice. the agreement reached on the energy labelling directive has important added value in this respect. i welcome the european parliament's position on maintaining the a-g scale model, which the survey has shown is the most acceptable and understandable to consumers. all advertising for energy-related products must include information on the price and energy consumption of the product or object.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the labelling of electricity-using products and the provision of basic information to consumers. we talk about citizens' rights in this house a lot - the right to choose, the right to accurate and truthful information. i think this is especially important in all areas of life. in this case, the issue is related to the electricity used and its efficiency. people actually want to save energy, and they usually do it for two reasons: economic and environmental. today, with technological progress, people can choose electrical household appliances according to their energy efficiency, the labelling we have endorsed will contribute to making people make a conscious choice, to saving energy (thus making people choose more economical solutions) and to preserving the environment. i am sure that europeans will take advantage of the opportunity to choose more efficient and environmentally friendly products and equipment as they become aware of the energy they use. i welcome once again the european parliament's position on this issue and hope that such decisions will be a real incentive and opportunity to fulfil its commitment to reduce energy consumption by 2020.
in writing. − i support this report on the setting of standards for the quality and safety of human organs for transplantation. with the growing demand for organ transplantation in the european union and the imbalance between the number of patients waiting for transplantation and the number of organs donated, it is necessary to avoid the commercialisation of donation and to prevent the illicit trade in organs. it is therefore necessary to apply strict legislation on living donors, to ensure the transparency of organ waiting lists, to establish strict confidentiality rules to protect the data of donors and waiting persons and to define the liability of medical practitioners. the adoption of common quality and safety standards would allow for cross-border organ exchanges, which could lead to an increase in the number of transplants performed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which aims to limit the use of food additives that are harmful to health in foodstuffs, thus protecting the health of consumers. the legislation in force in the european union provides that food additives may be used if they are of benefit to the consumer. as the benefits of thrombin (meat glue) for consumers have not been demonstrated and the process of assembling individual pieces of meat increases the risk of bacterial contamination of the meat, thus threatening the safety of the final product and the health of consumers, i did not support the proposal to authorise this food additive in beef and pigmeat products. it is also necessary to prevent meat products treated with such meat glue from reaching catering establishments.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree that the use of food additives must be moderate and justified only if it provides an additional benefit to consumers. unfortunately, i do not think that food glue called thrombine meets this requirement. the widespread use of 'food glue' would make it difficult for consumers to distinguish between real meat and meat glued together from small pieces. as mentioned in the report, this increases the risk of meat becoming infected. the only benefit of thrombin would be to producers who could market parts of the meat that would otherwise be useless. the european union is committed to combating counterfeiting and falsification in all other industries. i think the food industry should be no exception.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the statistics speak for themselves. according to this report, there are now 56 000 patients waiting for a suitable organ donor in the european union. every day, 12 people die waiting for an organ transplant. unfortunately, due to the severe shortage of organ donors and the lack of cross-border coordination, many people are simply dying. this sensitive issue involves a variety of legal and cultural aspects. but the situation is further complicated by the different national policies in the eu member states and by the substantially different rates of organ donation. some of these shortcomings can be mitigated by the eu database and certification system, which would provide information on the supply of organs and guarantee their quality and legality. it is also important to mobilise and inform the public. most eu citizens are generally not opposed to donating, but they are afraid to put their name on the register. donors should therefore be made as accessible as possible incentives can often be effective. for example, i welcome forms where citizens are given the opportunity to add their name directly to the organ donor register when applying for a driver's licence. the shortage of transplantable organs is also a powerful incentive for organ trafficking and human trafficking. the eu should develop better coordination of donation and transplantation, as we see europe's poorest regions becoming fertile ground for the illegal organ trade.
in writing. − the lisbon treaty provides the legal basis for eu accession to the echr the main instrument for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in europe and the heart of europe. the eu's accession to the convention will further strengthen the eu's framework for the protection of fundamental rights. i support this proposal because it is a historic opportunity to enable citizens of the european union and the member states to enjoy equal protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. the european court of human rights in strasbourg will be given the power to examine whether acts of the eu institutions, bodies and agencies, including judgments of the european court of justice, are compatible with the provisions of the european convention on human rights. it is very important that individuals have a new opportunity to defend their rights. by exhausting all national remedies, they will be able to bring actions before the european court of human rights for violations of fundamental rights committed by the eu this will encourage the development of a more coherent system of case law in the field of human rights. the uniform and full application of the charter of fundamental rights at eu level is also essential to ensure trust in the european union. as accession to the convention will have a major legal impact on the creation of a coherent system for the protection of human rights, i would urge the commission and the member states to consider the possibility of drawing up guidelines which clearly set out all the implications of accession to the convention, the impact on citizens' rights and the complaints procedure.
in writing. − as you know, respect for human rights is a fundamental value of the european union, enshrined in the ec treaty. there is no doubt that the eu's accession to the european convention on human rights could - if all goes well - become a historic opportunity to strengthen the human rights situation in the eu and across europe. this could be our chance to guarantee human rights and fundamental freedoms for eu citizens. the eu's accession to the echr would provide europe with a great opportunity to act as a moral beacon, to set an example. this would not only enhance the eu's credibility in its relations with non-eu member states, but also improve public perception of eu structures. but that is what would happen if we made a concerted effort to eliminate double standards in our political program and our legal system. sadly, as events in recent years have shown, often the blame has been purely political. the courts - both in my country and in the rest of europe - are still very often vulnerable to political manipulation. this must change if we are to prevent promising developments such as the eu's accession to the echr from being a waste of time. i therefore wholeheartedly support accession to the echr if it is a genuine defence of fundamental human rights and freedoms, and above all within the eu itself.
in writing. in recent months, in my country, lithuania, a study has been carried out on the adaptation of higher education institutions to the new needs of the labour market and the creation of employment opportunities for graduates immediately after finishing higher education. unfortunately, the survey found that many universities are producing professionals whose market is already overcrowded. this means that higher education institutions do not always take account of the needs of the market and that the young people who have just finished their studies are the most affected. i therefore fully support the initiative to provide a specific strategy or framework in the future, with a strong commitment and a strong commitment to strengthen university-business relations at local, national and international level. i would like to point out that the lack of jobs and the harsh working conditions affect the lives of every individual, and young people are particularly vulnerable in this situation. i would also like to emphasise that the dynamic market, the rapidly changing working environment and the increasing development of new technologies also require higher education institutions to adapt to new developments. it is necessary to improve and reform curricula in order to ensure a high level of education and to address the issue of graduate employment. the contribution of universities alone is not enough, but also the contribution of business and public authorities.
i would like to congratulate my colleague, rebecca harms, on her well-written report and i support the document under consideration and the proposal to provide eur 300 million in aid to bulgaria for the closure of the four units of the kozloduy nuclear power plant over a period of three years, while, of course, strengthening control over the use of the funds received. it can be said that equal solidarity is being demonstrated, as other new countries - lithuania and slovakia in a similar situation - have already received such financial support. the four nuclear power plants have been out of operation for some time and logically they must be closed. this will reduce environmental risks and help to make better use of the knowledge and professional experience of the staff. the closure of part of the plant will put new challenges on the plant's staff. lithuania's experience has shown that unforeseen obstacles arise, and it is difficult to focus on the established timetables. the fact that the bulk of the funds should be devoted to the closure of the blocks inevitably raises the question of the installation of storage facilities. but it is no less important to care for people. i believe that the bulgarian government, with the help of the european union, will help the workers and the community around the power plant to adapt to the changed conditions, and it is very important to help them to retrain and apply their knowledge in other areas, to promote the creation of new sustainable jobs and to transition to new energy, which is environmentally friendly.
some central and eastern european countries that have joined the european union have made politically and economically complex commitments in their accession treaties to close nuclear power plants and ensure safe management of radioactive waste. they are nuclear power states and inherited nuclear power plants that do not meet the safety standards and requirements of today's european union and obviously could not raise the necessary funds to close them themselves. the strict requirements in the european union for the decommissioning and safety work, the financial and economic crisis, and the additional obstacles to the timely and proper execution of the closure and fuel burial work by the countries closing nuclear power plants. the community is understandably concerned about the recycling of spent nuclear fuel outside the european union, which could also threaten our future generations. i therefore welcome the commission's decision to provide additional support to bulgaria from the european union budget, as it is clear that without community support, as in the case of lithuania, it would not be possible to ensure the implementation of the necessary decommissioning works, the common community security policy and the necessary measures for the safety of european citizens and the protection of the environment.
i would like to thank my colleague, yevgeny kirilov, for a very important and carefully prepared speech. the european union calls on armenia, azerbaijan and georgia to do everything possible to make these countries stable, peaceful and genuinely democratic states, where human and minority rights are guaranteed, where there is a civilised competition between opposition and position. it's not easy to talk about regional cooperation when you know all three countries are affected by frozen or fresh conflicts. and yet, european experience - especially when we look back at the origins of the european union after the bloody wars - speaks volumes: there is no other way but to talk, to talk, to heal wounds, to act by looking to the future rather than the past. the south caucasus countries will gain a brighter european perspective if they are able to cooperate with each other and with the wider region. of course, this will also depend on the behavior of neighboring countries. the european union has the potential to play a more active political role in the south caucasus, to ensure, inter alia, the implementation of poverty reduction programmes, the reduction of social exclusion, gender equality and women's rights, investment in education and health. it is important to develop direct contacts between the citizens of the south caucasus and the european union countries even more rapidly. in particular, the number of students, teachers and researchers participating in mobility programmes should be increased. it's in all of our interests.
in writing. − i voted for this report which addresses the current shortcomings of the internal market. the economic and financial crisis has substantially damaged the single market integration process. it is unfortunate to witness the re-emergence of economic protectionism at national levels which might result in fragmentation of the internal market. a large number of smes are leaving the market because their access to finance has been severely restricted in the times of crisis. it should not be forgotten that smes form an essential part of the backbone of the european economy and are main drivers of economic growth and social cohesion. member states should put greater efforts in implementing the small business act and removing red-tape and other administrative and bureaucratic obstacles for smes.
in writing. − i support this report on more active university-business partnerships. universities play an important role in the successful transition to a knowledge-based economy, but the active involvement of other stakeholders, i.e. business, public authorities, is also necessary. to achieve effective results, it is necessary to restructure and modernise the education sector, to update the curricula and to reform the curricula to meet the needs of the labour market. enabling graduates to enter small and medium-sized enterprises would close the gap between the demand for young professionals and the demand for labour.
in writing. − perhaps no eu member state doubts that cooperation between education and business is necessary. in a time of crisis, when the problem of unemployment is highlighted, and when the importance of education meeting the needs of the market is also highlighted, it is gratifying that the european parliament, by endorsing this document, is seeking to stimulate a dialogue between academia and business. this should be seen as a long-term perspective from the very beginning of higher education: encouraging various exchange programmes, internships in enterprises, perhaps even consulting universities and enterprises in the development of curricula. if future employers are involved in the education system from the outset, they are more likely to produce professionals who are better able to respond to employers' needs in the labour market.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, the closure of the bulgarian kozloduy nuclear power plant and the lithuanian ignalina nuclear power plant was one of the conditions for accession to the european union. the closure of the ignalina nuclear power plant in 2009 had a strong impact on lithuania. since lithuania regained its independence in 1991, the ignalina nuclear power plant has made a significant contribution to our economy and has covered more than 70% of our country's energy consumption. the closure forced us to abandon our status as an electricity exporter and become a broadband importer. the ignalina nuclear power plant was a source of cheap energy for industry and consumers, as well as a source of export revenues. like the closure of kozloduy, the disappearance of ignalina will result in the loss of businesses and jobs for the local economy. the full eu financial assistance to kozloduy and ignalina is important in order to remedy some of the economic and social consequences of the closure of the nuclear power plant. the financial turmoil of recent years has hit lithuania and most eu countries hard, temporarily dashing hopes of building new state-of-the-art nuclear power plants in the near future. but it would be foolish on our part to abandon the nuclear power plant altogether. nuclear technology is by no means an antidote to our energy security and natural disasters, but the efficient and safe use of nuclear energy could contribute to overcoming long-term strategic challenges.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, lithuania and several of our neighbouring eu countries almost reached bottom in 2009. the griffins may not be rolling over our heads, but we still don't feel safe: lithuania's gdp fell by 4.1% from quarter to quarter and in the first quarter of 2010. most lithuanians understand that the need for painful sacrifices and drastic measures will not disappear overnight. the long-term sustainability of public finances is essential for stability and growth. reducing the budget deficit is the way to go. the report rightly notes that high debt and deficit levels threaten sustainability and could have a devastating impact on employment, public health and pensions. the decision we have to make cannot be taken lightly the growing government deficit is becoming a heavy burden for future generations. financial stability is important for the recovery of the lithuanian and european economies. i therefore support the measures discussed this week, such as the proposals for a european systemic risk board and a european system of financial supervisors. now more than ever, we need smoother markets and risk insurance funds, and better coordination and supervision. we must also continue to take our international commitments seriously. the most important thing is to restore public confidence and economic self-respect in each of our countries. this can be achieved by ensuring the long-term sustainability of public finances, speaking out and being transparent in all activities.
madam president, the constitution of pakistan differentiates between muslims and non-muslims, thereby enabling discrimination on the basis of religion. in this context it is important to recall that in december 2009 president asif ali zardari reiterated the pledge of the ppp (pakistan people’s party) to uphold the rights of minorities to be treated as equal citizens. unfortunately, reports and surveys done by independent agencies reveal that minorities in pakistan are deprived of basic civil liberties and equal opportunities in jobs, education and political representation. so the overall picture concerning religious freedom in pakistan even without going into the details, is controversial and gives a lot of ground for concern. i would also like to stress the contradiction between the pakistan government’s commitment to freedom of religion and its leading role in the organisation of islamic countries in endorsing their ‘combating defamation of religion’ agenda at the united nations. in this context i would like to recall the eu council conclusion of 16 november 2009 on the relationship between international human rights law, which protects individuals and groups of individuals, and the concept of defamation of religion.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i hope my colleague, michael cashman, and our colleagues will regard my remarks as a supplement and as a token of appreciation, rather than a revision. the mdgs allow us a unique point of entry into the human condition at the beginning of the 21st century. therefore, it is critically important to come up with a new and fresh perspective, instead of offering that of the 20th century. it is a fact of our time that no development is possible without security, and vice versa. this is why we have tried to offer a more balanced approach to the mdgs, paying more attention to such regions as central asia, where poverty goes hand in hand with a lack of safety, insecurity, instability, forced child labour and even slavery. in addition to the autocratic regimes in uzbekistan and turkmenistan, ethnic violence recently broke out in kyrgyzstan. dire straits, combined with instability and violence, may lead to a humanitarian catastrophe in the region. if we need proof that no durable and sustainable development exists without security, we have it here. in addition to that, we cannot forget about extreme forms of poverty in such european countries as moldova and albania. let us take, for example, some grave problems relating to health care. in ukraine and moldova 300 out of 10 000 people suffer from tuberculosis. the aforementioned countries do not fall into the category of least developed countries but they certainly fall into that of developing countries. if the mdgs do not embrace the least stable and least secure countries, we will never achieve a viable, social and moral order there. therefore, the time has come to expand our horizons. although sub-saharan africa is crucial to us, we cannot confine the mdgs to this sole, familiar context. we are facing new challenges and we have to react to them. last but not least, the mdgs are inseparable from the necessity to empower the least developed, developing and least secure countries so that they can shape their future themselves.
in fact, i also join in congratulating all of you on the leadership of estonia today. lithuania was also on the same path a few years ago, but was one tenth short of the inflation rate. in fact, each country has its own unique history. we have different economic structures and we have different decisions that have been made about certain things in the past. estonia is different in that there were probably less populist decisions because of the past, i think in my time there was very strict central bank policy and many other things. this is indeed an example for all of us, especially the baltic states, and we will hopefully have the same pleasant moment in a few years' time. i would also like to congratulate the current member of the european parliament, the former minister of finance, who also contributed to this process, and i would like to congratulate the whole estonian government on the really very good implementation of certain principles of economic and monetary union. good luck with that.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, thank you very much for this debate. i listened with great interest to all your contributions. there is a great temptation to go into detail and to have a debate on the details of this discussion, but i would like only to say that i still confirm the commission position, which is built on facts. we do not have the studies mentioned here that self-employed drivers are regularly working 90 hours per week, and we think that the driving time regulation, which we would like to enforce, will harmonise practices between member states and will fulfil this task to ensure and improve road safety. road safety has improved very largely due to the use of the driving time directive. we do not have the information that they are more sick, and why do we sometimes think that small and medium-sized enterprises are behaving irresponsibly, that they do not care about road safety or about their own health, so they must be more regulated than others? the commission cannot support legislation which limits the freedom of entrepreneurs in the road transport sector to organise their working time, while in other sectors entrepreneurs are not subject to similar working time restrictions. however, if the vote in this house confirms the rejection of the commission proposal, then the commission will review all possible options, including withdrawal of the proposal, and if parliament decides to include self-employed drivers in this directive, we will enforce your will. we will immediately inquire with member states how they apply the working time rules on self-employed drivers and how they monitor compliance with these rules.
in writing. i agree with the position of the committee on employment and social affairs on the rejection of the commission proposal and agree that it is necessary for the commission and parliament to work together to present a new, improved commission proposal in the future. i would point out that the commission's proposal to exclude self-employed drivers from the scope of the directive would be a major step backwards in eu social policy and transport policy. i would like to point out that 'fictitious' self-employed workers weaken the common labour market, and the main problem is that it is difficult to prove a 'fictitious' situation in practice. without concrete action and legal measures, the problem of self-employed drivers will become one of the biggest problems in the labour market and unfair competition will not be avoided. in order to improve the working conditions of all drivers and to ensure their social rights and guarantees, to improve road safety and to avoid unfair competition on the european road transport market, we cannot accept the commission's proposal as it stands today.
in writing. − on 2 september 2009, spain submitted an application to the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for the redundancies of workers in 181 enterprises producing other non-metallic mineral products in a region of the comunidad valenciana. i consider that the application meets the requirements for establishing the financial contribution as laid down in article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. i therefore supported this report and the commission's proposal to mobilise eur 6 598 735, as the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) only funds measures that help unemployed people to integrate into the labour market, and the egf funds also enable displaced workers to take up permanent or fixed-term employment, to participate in vocational training programmes and to acquire the necessary skills to meet the needs of the labour market, to obtain business certificates or to start self-employment. lithuania has also already benefited from the fund.
in writing. − ireland submitted an application to the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) on 7 august 2009 for the redundancies in the company 'waterford crystal' and three of its supply or downstream businesses. i consider that the application meets the requirements for establishing the financial contribution as laid down in article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. i voted in favour of this report and the commission's proposal to authorise the mobilisation of eur 2 570 853, as the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) only funds measures that help unemployed people to integrate into the labour market, and the egf funds also enable displaced workers to take up permanent or fixed-term employment, to participate in vocational training programmes and to acquire the necessary skills to meet the needs of the labour market, to obtain business certificates or to start independent activities. lithuania has also already benefited from the fund.
in writing. − i welcome the decisions to mobilize financial assistance to redundant workers who lost their jobs due to the global financial and economic crisis in three particular instances – in the comunidad valenciana and castilla-la mancha regions in spain, as well as in the crystal production company waterford crystal in ireland. the total amount of support in these cases amounts to eur 11 million and will target 3 663 redundant workers. although the assistance from the european globalization adjustment fund will not solve all the problems caused by the financial and economic crisis, i urge eu institutions to perform effective and timely evaluation of applications, as well as the member states to participate actively in this fund. in my home country, lithuania, financial assistance has recently been allocated for workers who lost their jobs in construction, furniture, clothing manufacturing industries, as well as for workers at snaige factory in alytus city. this support has been highly appreciated among those most severely hit by the global financial and economic crisis.
in writing. − an application was submitted to the commission on 9 october 2009 for the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 950 000 from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for spain. this concerns the redundancies of 585 workers in the nine-month reference period from 1 november 2008 to 31 july 2009 in 36 enterprises operating in the sectors classified as 'production of wood and wood and cork products, except furniture; production of straw and plaiting materials' in the region of castilla-la mancha. i supported the commission's assessment that the application met the eligibility criteria set out in the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) regulation and the commission's recommendation that the application be approved by the budgetary authority, as the egf only funds measures that help unemployed people to integrate into the labour market and enables redundant workers to take up permanent or fixed-term employment, to participate in vocational training programmes and to acquire the necessary knowledge to meet labour market needs, to acquire business certificates or to start a self-employed activity. lithuania has also already benefited from the fund.
in writing. − i agree with this report, as more than half of the technical assistance allocated to the commission will be used to finance and implement the studies and evaluations of the existing european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) cases, drawing on success stories and learning for the future, and part of the technical allocations will be used to develop a database on long-term reintegration into the labour market. i would also call for at least part of this appropriation to be used for technical measures which can help to shorten the application procedure, which is too long in many cases for aid applications. i would encourage member states to become familiar with and take advantage of the opportunities offered by the egf for workers made redundant on a large scale and to use these funds to help and support the reintegration of workers made redundant. i would also encourage member states to exchange examples of good practice and in particular to learn from those member states that have already set up national egf information networks involving social partners and stakeholders at local level, in order to have an appropriate support system in place in the event of mass job losses.
in writing. − i have endorsed this report and the commission's proposal to use the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to finance technical assistance to the commission in the amount of eur 1 110 000. in accordance with article 8 (1) of the legal basis, each year 0,35% of the annual ceiling of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) may be allocated to technical assistance at the initiative of the commission. a maximum of eur 1,75 million may be mobilised each year to finance the implementation needs of the fund. i supported the commission's proposal that this amount should also be used to finance the following activities, namely activities related to the mid-term evaluation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) monitoring and implementation studies, the creation of a knowledge base; the exchange of information and experience between experts and auditors from the member states and the commission, the development of networks, the preparation of meetings of the egf expert group; the organisation of workshops on the implementation of the egf, as well as information and publicity activities and the further development of the egf website and publications in all eu languages. whereas the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) plays an important role and the purpose of the use of the funds under this fund is to provide one-off assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of globalisation or the global financial or economic crisis, with a view to facilitating their reintegration into the labour market;
in writing. − the financial earthquake of recent years has left many people unemployed or underemployed. it is good that the eu is based on the principle of solidarity. since the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006, almost 30 applications have been received, totalling €154 million, and 33 000 workers across europe have been helped. this aid covered a wide range of sectors, including the computer industry, mobile telephony and the automotive industry. the baltic states have been hit hard by the financial crisis. between october 2008 and july 2009, more than 1 600 workers employed in lithuanian construction companies lost their jobs. half of them have not found another job or have retired. they must receive assistance. the egf covers most of the costs and the lithuanian employment fund covers the remaining costs. i would like to thank the egf for providing a very carefully selected and socially responsible support. one specific example: up to may 2009, 651 people working for lithuanian ab snaigė (a refrigeration equipment manufacturer) and two of its suppliers lost their jobs in five months. this had a direct impact on the employees and their families, as well as on their city of alytus, where snaiga is headquartered. in view of the situation, the egf allocated a significant amount of money to workers. the provision of money will enable employees to find employment, to undergo training and to retrain.
in writing. − i have voted for this report. effective use of the structural and cohesion funds is a pre-condition for the growth of our economies and creation of jobs. in order to ensure transparency of the use of funds the european transparency initiative should be implemented in its fullest. currently there is insufficient information about commission decisions on the funding of major. member states as well use different levels to inform the public on the beneficiaries of the eu aid . i believe that transparency should be ensured at all levels as it goes hand in hand with the process of simplifying the procedures for obtaining structural funds and enables public participation in a debate how public money is spent which is essential for the efficient use of the eu funds.
in writing. − the publication of information on the recipients of eu funds is the cornerstone of the european transparency initiative. i believe that the requirement in the financial regulation for member states to provide information on how eu funds are managed in a shared way, in particular through ex post publication of information on the recipients of funds, is insufficient. the commission shall confine itself to proposing a common guideline standard for the publication of data to the public and to making eu information publicly available on the website of the directorate-general for regional policy by providing links to the electronic addresses of the member states where the required data on the beneficiaries of the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund are published. where those funds are used under shared management, such references and their content shall be the sole responsibility of the member states and shall contain information transmitted by the managing authorities. due to the diversity of conditions for the provision and use of data, it is not possible to carry out comparisons at eu level. i therefore supported the ep's proposals to ensure that member states' databases can be used for comprehensive searches and that databases are harmonised to facilitate the browsing of eu-wide data, and that the data collected are presented and processed in a structured and comparable way to ensure that they are very user-friendly. the implementation of these proposals would contribute to the european transparency initiative.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, i would like to emphasise that transparency is very important for a country like mine, lithuania. eu funds such as the structural fund and the cohesion fund have helped shape lithuania's economic, social and environmental development and will continue to do so. it is therefore important that citizens are given the opportunity to become witnesses and to influence the allocation of these resources. for this to happen, public participation is essential. public participation could take various forms in the decision-making process in the allocation and implementation of eu funds. increased public participation would reduce corruption and increase the efficiency of the use of funds, which is crucial for a country like lithuania. it is also important to disclose the recipients of eu funds. this would stimulate debate on the use of public money in the state, which is again one of the essential principles of a functioning democratic state. i would also like to stress the need for the involvement of regional and local authorities and, above all, of ordinary citizens. the report makes some remarks on the need for a comprehensive online platform to provide a better understanding of, and overview of, existing funds. this is a good start, but more should be done to include people from different backgrounds - from the richest to the poorest, from big cities to small villages. civil society and non-governmental organisations could also help by promoting the effectiveness of programmes and improving their accountability.
in writing. − i support this regulation on the creation of a competitive european rail freight network, the implementation of which is expected to bring added value to the whole community as europe will be connected by a common rail transport network. this will ensure the efficient movement of people and goods between european regions. the regulation also sets deadlines for the implementation of railway corridors. an extension of the five-year period in favour of lithuania, during which the european crane will have to be installed in lithuania, has been adopted. with lithuania currently experiencing the painful effects of the economic crisis, this decision is particularly welcome as lithuania, like other countries hard hit by the crisis, has limited financial resources to invest in rail infrastructure development projects in the near future.
in writing. − i decided to vote in favour of the recommendation for second reading, insomuch as recent series of informal trialogue meetings with the spanish presidency have produced an agreement. i consider it is important not to lose the momentum. in its first reading of april 2009, my group supported the objective of a competitive rail freight network through the creation of corridors across the european union, as set out in the commission proposal of december 2008. my support for this agreement is also strengthened by the importance of the rail network in lithuania and the economic perspective it offers my country. it is of paramount importance – not only to lithuania but also to the european union as a whole – to stop the decline of rail market share in freight transport. i am convinced the rail freight market will benefit from this agreement. it will contribute to improving its quality of service and create synergies between national rail systems.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the derivatives market (futures trading) needs to be made more transparent and more regulated. derivatives play a positive role in redistributing financial risk in the economy, but due to a lack of transparency and proper regulation, they have exacerbated the financial crisis. i welcome the commission's initiative to better regulate derivatives, in particular otc derivatives, in order to reduce the impact of risks on the stability of all financial markets, to standardise derivative contracts, to use a centralised data repository and to organise trading venues.
in writing. − the internet, which only became widely available two decades ago, has become an indispensable satellite of civilization, like the telephone or the radio. with 1.5 billion people online today, that number will double in a few years. high technology will soon allow not only computers to be connected to the internet but also cars, even books, food, and other things. connecting cars to the network would allow information about tyre pressure to be transmitted to the driver. programmed refrigerators will be able to recognize expired products. i voted in favour of this report because the internet of things will boost the economy in crisis and help create new jobs and new services for a growing number of eu citizens and businesses. this will also allow optimisation of production processes and energy savings, which are crucial in the fight against climate change.
in writing. - i supported this report. research and innovation are the key ingredients for successfully addressing the biggest and most pressing societal and environmental challenges and delivering on the eu's strategic policy objectives, such as competitiveness, climate change, employment, demographic change and many others. to remain competitive, europe must invest in long-term technologies and secure the necessary funding. europe is still lagging behind in research and innovation because of the fragmentation of the sector and the gap between research and innovation and its application in the market. i believe that the european commission needs to address the issue of private funding for research and innovation in the future innovation plan, which would allow companies to develop innovative products and services and bring them to market.
in writing. − global competition for location has led to the relocation of not only production but also related r & d capacities to third countries. such developments pose a serious threat to europe's position as an attractive industrial region. this process must be stopped before it becomes irreversible by consistently promoting innovation opportunities. according to the eu commission, less than 1% of the eu budget is currently spent directly on innovation measures. these funds are not sufficient to meet the challenges facing society in the future. i therefore support increasing the share of the eu budget allocated to innovation. this should be taken into account in the preparation of the financial perspective for the period 2014 to 2020. it is also important, in the light of the financial and credit crisis, to allocate more resources at both community and national levels and to develop and use better financing instruments to increase the capacity of enterprises to innovate. to increase the effectiveness of innovation policy, there is a need for better coordination, more effective linkages and a stricter management of the different support instruments, i.e. more targeted support.
in writing. - i support this report. poverty reduction is one of the key objectives of eu development policy. however, the negative effects of the economic and financial recession have further slowed down the progress of developing and least developed countries. eu member states should therefore make every effort to establish specific development assistance measures in the near future, covering the areas of trade, development cooperation, the common agricultural policy. it is also necessary to facilitate the integration of developing countries into the world economy and thus to promote the development of trade between them. the commission should ensure the effective administration of aid measures for developing and least developed countries and the transparency and effectiveness of the allocation of financial assistance.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the achievement of the millennium development goals must remain a key objective of the european union. this is a very important task both at eu and international level, and despite all the difficulties, we cannot put off its implementation. the eu and the international community need to focus their efforts and take concrete action to increase the chances of achieving the mdgs. i would like to stress that this is not the time to save at the expense of the sick or the hungry, and that we need to focus on areas such as health, women and children, the fight against poverty and greater attention to employment and decent work. i would like to stress that poverty reduction in the context of the millennium development goals must be recognised as a common eu policy objective and that europe must lead the global community in taking concerted action to deliver on the eu's promises to the poorest of the planet. i support the european parliament's call for the majority of eu financial support to go to the most vulnerable, with a focus on women, children, people with disabilities and all those who need it most. particular attention should also be paid to gender equality, minority rights and the fight against discrimination.
in writing. − as the shadow rapporteur for this report, i voted strongly in favour of this report, which aims to ensure the successful implementation of the millennium development goals. i fully support my colleagues' efforts to ensure that the european union has a unified and progressive voice on this issue. however, i could not accept the two amendments which were tabled, the provisions of which, as a liberal, are unacceptable to me. i therefore voted against calls for the eu to unilaterally impose a currency and derivatives transaction tax to fund global public goods, including ict. the european union should not impose additional tax burdens on its citizens, especially those whose mechanisms and effects have not yet been fully explored. i also disagree with the legally binding nature of development aid measures. it is important that member states fulfil their commitments to increase the amount of official development assistance (oda), but the european union should not legally penalize its members for partial non-compliance in a changed context, affected by the financial crisis. not all member states have been equally affected by the crisis and not all will be able to reach the 0.7% target. the european parliament should encourage them in a more lenient and acceptable way than by means of strict legal measures.
written. - the objective set in the mdgs is indeed a noble one and i believe we must make every effort to achieve it. lithuania is a small country with a limited bilateral development budget. our worldly goals are difficult and sometimes unattainable. the majority of our bilateral aid (around 50%) is directed to countries that are part of the european neighbourhood policy. it's not because we care less about people in africa or the caribbean than we do about people closer to home. for lithuania and other countries in a similar situation, the key is not the fine-tuned allocation of funds, but its effectiveness. we need to achieve the best possible results with relatively few resources, which is not always possible in remote countries. it's important that we help where we can. if not through funding, then by sharing our integration experience and other research that could be useful. reducing poverty, whether in lithuania or in the farthest corner of africa, should be one of our top priorities. fighting corruption and helping the poor is our moral duty and the eu's long-term interest. with the number of people in low-paid and insecure jobs on the rise, it is important that we focus all our efforts on protecting the interests of the most vulnerable groups in particular.
against the background of the general crisis in the provision of credit rating agencies, the crisis in the provision of credit rating agencies reveals the dangers of this system. most importantly, no one feels responsible for the final outcome of the risk assessment, even though the activities of these agencies have a significant impact on the stability of the financial market, and a very high level of access to credit and credit prices depend on them. on the other hand, it is good that the commission, recognising the need to restore market confidence and increase investor protection, is proposing new eu-wide rules establishing a common regulatory framework for credit rating. the change in the rules on credit rating agencies implies better supervision at the european union level, more transparency in this sector, but it is necessary to analyse this sector further and more closely. it is necessary to ensure that credit rating agencies are properly monitored and that infringements are subject to appropriate penalties. credit in the activities of credit rating agencies needs to become more transparent in order to better protect investors and users of credit ratings and, most importantly, to increase competition in the credit rating sector.
member of the commission. − in response to the important and topical question from ms andrikienė, let me say that the commission is fully aware of all the violations of the democratic principles and procedures which have been reported by a number of ngos in the context of the local elections in belarus. the european union’s heads of mission in minsk have also pointed to inconsistencies and indeed discrepancies, in particular in the ballot counting. some amendments were made, ahead of the elections, to the belarus electoral code. according to the opinion of the osce office for democratic institutions and human rights, which was issued on 3 june 2010, this represented, and i quote, ‘a step towards removing some flaws’ in the electoral code. however, the report states that these amendments are unlikely to resolve the concerns that the electoral code continues to fall short of genuinely democratic elections. in the light of this, during the visit i intend to pay to minsk in july, i will convey to the authorities the clear message that progress needs to be made in a number of areas which are key to democratisation if belarus is serious about re-engaging with the european union. one of these areas is electoral legislation, which is one of the most evident tests of democratic standards. in this respect i will urge minsk to continue to cooperate with the osce order on the reform of the electoral code ahead of the next presidential elections. in the run up to these elections, the commission will also pay particular attention to other key aspects of democratisation, notably freedom of assembly, of the media and of ngos and civil society, more generally, where no progress has been reported in recent times.
thank you very much for your answer, but i have an additional question. the world is reacting differently to the events in belarus. on 8 june, the us administration took the decision to extend financial sanctions against senior belarusian officials, including president alexander lukashenko, for another year. i think this is a response to the undemocratic local elections in belarus and i would like to hear your assessment. and also, does the european union intend to take similar action in response to violations of civil, political and other human rights in belarus? in other words, what position does the european union intend to take?
member of the commission. − the reason why estonia has had to enforce budgetary discipline is not primarily the euro, but the fact that estonia’s economy faced a very serious financial crisis, like all of us, and economic growth stalled. there was negative economic growth, which meant that estonia’s public finances were simply no longer on a sustainable basis. estonia’s debt level is very low: 7.2% for the moment, while the european average is 75%, but the gradient was very worrying and it was only common sense in economic terms to ensure that estonia will be able to continue its stability-oriented policies and ensure the sustainability of its public finances. this was the democratic decision of the estonian parliament recently and this has been the policy followed in estonia with quite some success.
commissioner, as we all know, the weakest link in the eurozone is greece, and it took two months for the bailout to be granted to greece. this delay was largely germany's fault and cost hundreds of millions of euros, and it undoubtedly weakened the euro itself. how does the commission assess such matters and what steps will it take to prevent such delays from occurring in the future?
member of the commission. − firstly, many of you have mentioned funding. there are two possibilities: one is prevention, when we should look to the cohesion fund; the second relates to the funds at european level – interreg and all the activities connected with that. when disaster occurs, there is certainly another possibility – mentioned by an honourable member – namely the european solidarity fund. the european union solidarity fund has very clear guidelines concerning implementation and the nature of the damage. in the case of the irish application for the solidarity fund, the damage caused was below the threshold but the commission is in the process of assessing that application. when the amount of the damage is below the normal threshold for mobilising the solidarity fund of 0.6%, the specific criteria for exceptional mobilisation must be met. if this is assessed to be the case, then the aid can be guaranteed. however, we should not simply mix two the things – the purpose of one and the purpose of the other. i also agree about the sharing of best practice, which was mentioned – i think it is important that management plans are drawn up in a proper and correct way. regarding the cross-border effect, we are very much in support of this in the water framework directive. the river basin approach is one which looks across borders and which is establishing a kind of connection where the member states should cooperate. they are asked to cooperate and in fact are bound to do so in preparing their cross-border solutions. finally, i would mention that in 2012 we want to produce a blueprint on waters and their management. within that blueprint there will be three topics which we want to address. one of the topics to which we will give our attention will be droughts.
member of the commission. − it is true that under the environmental impact assessment (eia) directive, the responsibility for gathering the necessary environmental information and submitting it to the public authorities is given to the developer. however, this does not result in an opaque and partial eia process as the directive contains several safeguards which ensure a transparent and objective environmental assessment of projects. these safeguards are to be found, firstly, in the description of the minimum information to be included in the environmental impact assessment report which is required by the eia directive and, secondly, in the consultations with the competent environmental authorities and the public. indeed, all the information provided by the developer has to be made public to the environmental authorities and the public, which have to be consulted. the accuracy of this information can be challenged at any point of the consultations, before the final decision is taken. this means that the competent environmental authorities can use their own capacity to proceed with a proper assessment of the information provided, while ngos or interested parties can – and very often do – challenge the whole assessment on the basis of the data provided, in case they do not reflect the real situation or omit clearly to conform to the requirements of the eia provisions. the final decision to grant or refuse development consent must take into consideration the results of consultations and the information gathered and must contain the main reasons on which it is based. all this is also made available to the public. but, to be honest, your question is very relevant. after more than 20 years of implementation, we have identified the areas where improvements are needed and reached the conclusion that the eia directive should be reviewed. my objective is to present a new text which will further improve environmental protection, take on board the challenges in the areas of climate change, energy and biodiversity, integrate the ecj case-law and harmonise and simplify, to the extent possible, existing procedures. in this context, the overall quality of the environmental assessments will be a central issue, and there is certainly room for improvement. on the one hand, the quality control of the eia documentation submitted by the developer could be improved. on the other hand, the quality of the eia process itself could be reinforced. my services have already started working on the review of the eia directive. by the end of june, a broad consultation of the public and of the stakeholders will be launched. you are of course invited to participate and also express your views. once all the relevant data and information are on the table, the commission will identify the appropriate policy options for amending the eia directive, including ways of ensuring the independence of the environmental assessments. any commission proposal will have to be subject to a legislative impact assessment. i am not yet in a position to give you a date for the commission’s proposal, but my intention is clearly to present this proposal during my mandate, better sooner than later, though of course there is still some quite serious work to be done before then.
this problem is important both for the member states, i.e. important in the context of projects carried out locally in the member states, but it is also important in the context of international projects and as an example, perhaps, it would be energy infrastructure projects, the same nordstream project in the baltic sea and what you mentioned, that the public also has a right to participate and that the implementers should take into account the fears of the public, but somehow not even the information of independent scientists was taken into account. that is why we are talking today about the need to set up an independent impact assessment mechanism, and i would like to ask you whether you think that the european commission would regulate the national law of the member states on this matter, or, say, when it is an international project, could the european commission itself intervene in such matters?
the implementation of projects under the baltic sea research and development programme bonus 169 has revealed the catastrophic situation of the baltic sea, especially in areas where large-scale energy infrastructure projects are planned and implemented not only by the european union but also by other countries bordering the union. genotoxicity has increased several hundred fold in certain locations. the bonus programme has thus already demonstrated its potential to contribute to the monitoring of the baltic environment and it is therefore necessary to continue to actively study the state of the baltic sea. in order to ensure that research is as thorough and objective as possible, it is essential that researchers from all the countries surrounding the baltic sea are involved in research on an equal footing. the programme is a preventive measure that draws attention to the complex ecological situation in the baltic sea. only with the right research funding and early detection of threats will we prevent ecological disasters and i believe we will ensure that the baltic sea...
i welcome the european commission's efforts to establish a european financial stability facility to help euro area and non-euro area countries overcome their financial difficulties, and also to reform the economic governance system. experience has shown that monetary union alone does not ensure the economic stability of the community as a whole. to achieve this, we must urgently bring together the economic potential of all 27 european countries and better coordinate their economic policies. we will also create a more effective oversight mechanism through coordination. we as a union are losing and will probably lose the competitive battle through the various foreign rating agencies and international funds to allow us to assess ourselves and make decisions about the financial condition of our european countries. the oft-repeated idea that europe needs its own credit rating agency seems to be beginning to become a reality, and it is gratifying that the head of the euro area, j.c. juncker, has already spoken of the need for such an agency. the european union is also capable of having its own fund, through which we could create a european market surveillance system.
mr president, i voted in favour of the report, and first of all i would like to congratulate estonia on the decision by the european parliament to allow its entry into the euro area on 1 january 2011. the euro has experienced some serious challenges today; however, estonia’s entry into the euro area should be a clear message to those who question the existence and prospects of europe’s single currency. we should take estonia’s determination and consistent efforts towards its membership in the euro area family as an example, especially taking into account that estonia’s commendable performance was achieved during the global financial and economic crisis. estonia’s case should serve as an example to other member states that are seeking to join the euro area, as well as to current members of the euro family, especially those who tend to underestimate the importance of the euro area’s criteria and rules.
parliament voted today on a very important document and i welcome the decision taken. it is important that consumers are properly informed and that the information they receive is as accurate and accessible as possible. i have tried to take the interests of consumers into account in my vote, but it is still necessary to strike a balance between the necessary and the superfluous information, between the interests of consumers and those of producers. i therefore believe that the next step should be to set up a system, or at least to encourage producers to provide as much additional information as possible to consumers on their own initiative, in order to ensure the health of all our citizens in the european union.
in writing. − i voted for this document, which will give more opportunities to exploit the scientific potential of the baltic sea countries. the baltic sea ecosystems are facing a major environmental threat, due to natural and human impacts, which must be addressed through science. the baltic sea states have so far implemented research and development programmes at national level, but they are not sufficiently coordinated at european level. i believe that the bonus programme will be a good example and will improve the research capacity in the baltic sea region and bring researchers from these countries into joint activities and contribute to the creation and implementation of the european research area in the baltic sea region.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the baltic sea and its coasts are increasingly being adversely affected by a variety of factors: pollution, climate change, acidification, depletion of resources and loss of biodiversity. in order to reduce pollution in the baltic sea, eight eu member states, including lithuania, will therefore seek to implement the joint baltic sea research and development programme 'bonus-169'. research and programmes are currently being carried out at national level in some baltic sea countries, but there is insufficient coordination at eu level in this area. in view of the gravity of the current situation, research programmes in the baltic sea region could therefore be more focused and systematic in order to address the complex and urgent problems of marine pollution in a coordinated and effective manner. i would point out that the commission's financial support for the joint development programme will help to make the most of the research potential. moreover, this joint programme is fully in line with the objectives of the european marine and maritime research strategy and the eu strategy for the baltic sea region. it is also in line with the new europe 2020 strategy, as investments in science and knowledge, which promote growth and job creation, are one of the key objectives of the future strategy.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, the baltic sea plays a very important role in lithuanian society. the vast majority of our resources lie on the baltic coast. for us lithuanians, the baltic sea is a real asset in terms of logistics - especially for the klaipėda seaport - but also in terms of nature and culture. unfortunately, as this report states, the baltic sea is suffering greatly from man-made hazards such as air pollution, climate change, depletion of resources and acidity. member states acting separately cannot be left to deal with the environmental problems in the baltic sea region alone. a joint action programme such as bonus is particularly needed at this time. research responds to the environmental and social and economic challenges we face. the bonus programme will create a positive common agenda for lithuania and our baltic neighbours this close cooperation could also cover political and economic issues. while the bonus programme focuses mainly on environmental research, we should not forget the other benefits that this programme can bring. the bonus programme has the potential to deliver significant social and economic benefits and to contribute to the objectives of the lisbon treaty by investing in knowledge linked to growth and jobs. this would improve the situation of various sectors - fisheries, tourism, maritime transport and aquaculture.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament recommendation because common rules on divorce between nationals of different countries would better ensure the rights of spouses of different nationalities or living abroad in the event of divorce throughout the european union. the initiative to harmonise the rules on crossborder divorce is a historic event, as it proposes to allow some eu countries to open a procedure for closer cooperation in this area. currently, the law applicable to divorce varies from one member state to another. it is therefore not always clear in which country a couple of different nationalities, as well as a couple of other eu nationals living abroad, can terminate their marriage. in view of the legal problems faced by european citizens in the event of divorce, the new draft law provides for the possibility for both spouses to choose, by mutual written agreement, the competent country for the divorce proceedings and the country whose law will apply to the divorce. so, first of all, with regard to the rights of our citizens, we must ensure that painful stages of life such as divorce are not made more complex and painful by legal difficulties or the complexity of judicial procedures.
in writing. − i decided to vote in favour of this recommendation and fully support this historic occasion to activate – for the first time – the enhanced cooperation procedure. whereas 140 000 divorces with an international element were pronounced in the union in 2007, european citizens are still confronted with legal problems when engaging in cross-border separation procedures. it is our task to remove these inextricable judicial impediments and simplify as much as possible these intrinsically painful episodes in people's lives. although my country, lithuania, does not participate in this enhanced cooperation now, i fully support this initiative since it represents a good example of how many eu citizens can profit in practical terms from being union citizens. the european union, its citizens and the internal market will directly benefit from this historic enhanced cooperation insomuch as it contributes to eliminating further discriminations and possible obstacles to the free movement of persons. it will increase the eu's visibility, and its legitimacy.
in writing. − i am pleased that one of the baltic countries, estonia, has managed to join the euro area in the face of a difficult economic situation. the example of estonia shows that a balanced and targeted policy can achieve full convergence. and the fact that countries are still keen to join the euro area in the midst of the crisis shows that there is a high level of confidence in the currency. i am confident that the political will and efforts to introduce the euro will not be weakened in lithuania either.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i think estonia is well placed to join the euro area. this small nordic country has demonstrated that, even in the midst of a financial crisis, monetary union is possible if pursued consistently and consistently. i think that the introduction of the euro will be beneficial for estonia - it will increase confidence in the country's economy, attract more investment, lower borrowing rates. this will also give a boost to the economies of lithuania and latvia. the important and symbolic significance of this enlargement is that estonia is the first of the former soviet union countries to join the monetary union, thus passing through the most difficult stage of eu integration. however, this development is equally important for the euro area as a whole. despite the problems facing the euro area, the single currency remains attractive, with the potential to add value to its member countries. i am pleased that the commission and the council have taken a positive view of estonia's progress and i hope that the council will also take a decision accordingly.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the surján report. the implementation of the 2009 eu budget shows a surplus of eur 2.25 billion, which mainly results from under-implementation of payments as well as from higher than expected revenues. in addition to distorting the result of the eu budget implementation, its direct effect is to lower the contributions from the member states to the eu budget already in the course of the budget year. without such an amending budget, the 2009 surplus would have been above eur 5 billion, mainly due to under-spending. annual budget surpluses have been increasing since 2007, despite those amending budgets presented in the course of the year in order to reduce surpluses. so the amounts at stake are very significant. the existing disconnection between the resources of the eu budget and emerging needs and commitments creates budgetary tensions and gaps that jeopardise some other eu priorities, such as the globalisation fund and many others. all this means that either the eu budget was not realistic, or we do not have effective tools to implement and supervise budget implementation. the main conclusion is therefore that we should significantly improve our budgetary planning and other related procedures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the new directive of the european parliament and of the council on the equal right to interpretation in courts throughout the european union will increase the impartiality and efficiency of the courts. given that all eu member states are parties to the european convention on human rights and freedoms, they should ensure fair trial and due process standards. unfortunately, in practice, these principles of justice and the 'quality' of the judicial process are not sufficiently guaranteed. i would like to point out that the right to interpretation in criminal proceedings will strengthen the right of a person to a fair trial and to be heard by the court. human rights are often violated at the moment, as a person being questioned or tried who does not understand the language used in a particular eu country does not always have the right to interpretation or translation in court, simply because such a right to interpretation in criminal proceedings has not been uniformly regulated throughout the eu until now. in order to ensure a fair trial, we must therefore avoid problems of misunderstanding of language and we must ensure that the defendant understands what is being said during his trial.
in writing. − i voted against the commission's proposal. the commission proposed to exclude self-employed drivers from the scope of the directive. i believe that the exclusion of self-employed persons would create the conditions for fictitious work and would allow companies to exploit drivers by not concluding contracts of employment but by hiring them as self-employed persons who would not be subject to the strict working hours and rest periods provided for in the directive. in order to ensure a competitive carrier market, the commission needs to find a solution that ensures a level playing field for all drivers. parliament has repeatedly expressed concern about the current double standards applied to employment contracts and self-employed persons. this situation distorts the principles of the functioning of the internal market and poses a threat to road safety.
in writing. − i support the european parliament's position to reject the european commission's proposal, as the rules governing the internal market must apply to everyone without exception. the current commission proposal to exempt self-employed drivers from the driver working time directive could encourage the registration of dummy self-employed drivers in larger companies, which would further encourage unfair competition in the market and weaken the common labour market. self-employed bus and truck drivers are subject to the same working and rest time requirements as drivers from larger companies. i would point out that in order to improve the working conditions of all drivers and to guarantee their social rights and guarantees, to improve road safety and to avoid unfair competition in the transport market, we must take the appropriate measures together with the commission and present a new improved proposal on the organisation of drivers' working time. the legal measures should therefore be taken to combat the fake work of self-employed drivers, as the fictitious situation is a common labour market problem and should be addressed accordingly.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, if i may, i would like to give lithuania's opinion on this matter. lithuanian truck drivers have earned a good reputation throughout europe. they are the entrepreneurs and heroes of our independent young lithuanian state often separated from their families for long periods of time. the endless highways of europe became their second home. yes, there have been reports of truck drivers breaching eu safety and labour regulations. but truck drivers are not always to blame. sometimes their employers leave them no choice but to break the rules. i have received letters from lithuanian truck drivers who have come to me and to the ep to make their voices heard. the letters say that truck drivers risk losing their wages if they do not manipulate the distance traveled by their truck's tachograph. the number of days of rest legally entitled is often not granted or postponed. drivers who complain are later discriminated against. these are clear violations of the rights of drivers and of the ep regulations, as well as of the provisions of the aetr and the cmr convention. some of them appealed to lithuanian authorities, but their complaints were ignored. more needs to be done to ensure the health and safety of drivers and other mobile workers in the road transport sector. this is not just a lithuanian problem, it is a european problem. ignoring this problem can have devastating consequences.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution though i have doubts about the feasibility of proposed targets. the 2020 strategy sets out very ambitious goals to be achieved during the coming decade, such as a high quality employment and more green jobs, climate and energy targets and many others. however, i believe that the strategy is missing crucial elements such as setting out concrete measures and actions which must be taken in order to respond to the challenges. the strategy proposed by the commission is of a rather general nature and the commission should present without delay more detailed plans to clarify how the proposed initiatives will be implemented. otherwise, the strategy risks to be merely a collection of slogans without a concrete backup and repeat the failure of the lisbon strategy.
in writing. − i voted for the resolution and i fully endorse the line it takes. the european union needs to reform its system of economic governance and to ensure the long-term sustainability of public finances which is essential for stability and growth. the proposed european financial stabilisation mechanism will only be effective if proper structural reforms are implemented. i believe that europe should establish its own rating agency and the lending fund which could be used to provide financial aid for all members states in need, and not to euro zone countries only. moreover, effective economic governance calls for a stronger commission which, under the provisions of the lisbon treat , has been given the task of coordinating reform plans and measures and establishing a common strategy.
mr president, just a few remarks. firstly, violence, especially if it ends with loss of life, should always be condemned and fought against. however, it has yet to be determined who was actually the first to use violence in the case of israel’s interception of the gaza flotilla. secondly, i congratulate israel on its decision to include in the investigation process two high-ranking international observers, who will ensure that the process is carried out transparently and impartially. i think this is a wise decision. we should join the calls by various international actors to israel to reconsider the gaza blockade, the lifting of the gaza blockade, but what will the international community say when rockets start landing again on israeli citizens and the hamas militia arms itself to the teeth? the balanced approach has been mentioned, so i would like to support this and say ‘yes’.
mr president, let me first emphasise that the report on human rights and democracy in the world is very important and long awaited. it covers the most important human rights issues. however, the major problem remains that the report merely describes the actions of the eu. the european parliament has more than once expressed a recommendation that the council should develop indicators and clear benchmarks, which has been mentioned by the vice-president of the commission in order to measure the effectiveness of the european union’s human rights policies. another issue i would like to mention today is the european parliament’s access to council and commission information and relevant documents, which has been limited so far, and, despite several parliaments’ recommendations on this issue, the situation has not improved. let me take as an example human rights dialogues which are carried with the authorities of the relevant countries. recently the council held a round of human rights talks with russia. we are well aware of the situation of human rights in russia: the continued killing of journalists, the climate of lawlessness, governmental toughness in dealing with the so-called terrorists in north caucasus and so on, but what we would like to know is: what was the reaction of the russians who were present at the human rights dialogue, and are they going to take any action on this? i know my time has finished, but just let me say that i fully understand that human rights fall under the common foreign and security policy but, nevertheless, human rights issues cannot be top secret... (the president cut off the speaker.)
in writing. − i support the objectives of the lisbon treaty, which is that each member state of the european union should appoint a highly qualified eu policy officer responsible for human rights and democracy. i support the initiative that it is important to establish a focal point responsible for issues relating to human rights defenders and their activities. in addition, eu countries need to adopt a comprehensive approach to human rights defenders to make eu policy more effective and more credible to the member states. support measures and, taking into account their short-term and long-term needs, preventive and protective measures should be in place to protect the activities of human rights defenders. i would like to emphasise that in order to better protect human rights defenders in third countries, a more effective eu dialogue with third countries on political and human rights issues is needed. it is also essential that the role of the lawyer is known and supported by the public, as recognition and visibility of his or her work can also help to improve security in difficult circumstances.
in writing. − i support this report because equality between women and men is one of the european union's key objectives and therefore concrete action at eu level is needed to ensure that the gains made so far are not lost. i would like to point out that the current economic crisis may put at risk the gains made in the area of gender equality, and the consequences of this decline may particularly affect women. i regret that many women, especially those in the retail, service and tourism sectors, and those in part-time or unsecured jobs, have already lost or are likely to lose their jobs. i would also like to stress that the unemployment of women could increase significantly as a result of the cuts announced in public budgets, as the sectors of education, health and social services are dominated by women. in addition, given that many women are setting up their own businesses, we must aim to reduce the administrative burden and create new jobs in the smes sector. the integration of women into the labour market in recent decades has meant a greater direct impact of the crisis not only on women themselves but also on households, as women's income is significantly reduced when they lose their jobs.
in writing. − i voted for this report because we need to continue to improve the position of women in the labour market and in society. women often face multiple forms of discrimination on the grounds of gender and age (especially older women), disability, ethnic or racial origin, religion, nationality, migration status, socioeconomic status, including single women, and the various forms of discrimination create numerous obstacles to the empowerment of women and to the improvement of their social status. the problem of reconciling work, family and private life between women and men also remains unresolved. i would like to point out that today, the majority of the almost 85 million people living in poverty are women, who are in this situation because of unemployment, temporary and precarious work and low wages, insufficient even for the minimum subsistence level. moreover, the number of women in poverty has risen disproportionately in recent years in europe compared to the number of men. unfortunately, women are at a much higher risk of poverty, so we must increase the opportunities for women to work in the single labour market. in order to improve the future position of women and to ensure gender balance in modern society, gender equality should therefore be mainstreamed in various fields of activity, such as economics, finance, business and social affairs.
in writing. i agree that the new european union strategy for jobs and growth adopted by the european council last week will help europe to recover from the crisis and to strengthen itself both at eu and international level by increasing competitiveness, productivity and social cohesion. however, it is regrettable that this new strategy has forgotten people with disabilities, who currently represent over 12% of the eu population. while the council has consistently called for greater attention to be paid to the inclusion of persons with disabilities in the management of disability-related issues, the europe 2020 strategy does not set out specific tasks, objectives and commitments that could realistically improve the lives of more than 65 million europeans with disabilities. i would like to point out that in the new strategy the european council finally agreed on the eu's main objectives and on the quantitative expression of indicators on education, social inclusion and poverty. after a long debate and the adoption of the european strategy, the next decade will therefore see the transition to its implementation phase, which should be even more difficult than its adoption. now it is up to the member states to take action to implement the policy priorities set out in the strategy at national level, otherwise the new strategy will once again be a set of pretty slogans. i would like to stress that the commission and the council must maintain a dialogue with the member states to ensure that national decisions are in line with the eu's main objectives, as this is the only way for the strategy to deliver concrete results.
i voted for this document and i am very pleased that it has been adopted. the document refers to the baltic sea strategy and its main objective is to promote coordination of member states' actions in policies with territorial implications. the strategy is based on four main policy areas, one of which is the promotion of an environmentally sustainable environment. i am therefore very pleased that my amendments to the document also reflect the planning and implementation of energy infrastructure projects around the baltic sea, which could have some impact on the baltic sea ecosystem. we also need to ensure good navigation practices, reduce the impact of agriculture on the baltic sea, and i fully support the european parliament's view that cooperation with third countries should be strengthened as part of the strategy. especially when it comes to environmental issues. so i am very confident that by 2011, when the strategy is assessed, we will have made a big step forward and will be able to start with a new quality.
youth unemployment is a huge problem today. 20% of my peers are unemployed in the european union. and i voted for this european parliament position because i believe that we are sending another important political message to both the european commission and the member states on the situation of youth unemployment. i think i fully share the ideas expressed in the report, that programmes such as 'eurasmus' for young entrepreneurs need to be promoted and developed, that it is very important to emphasise the importance of non-formal education in the lives of young people and in their career development. the next item is the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy. however, it is expected that the economic recovery will come through innovation, green technologies and the inclusion of young people in the labour market, which is very important. and i just want to share the experience of lithuania, where there are tax incentives for employers who hire young people who are entering the labour market for the first time. i hope that this cooperation between member states will be close to achieve such results.
biological waste, like waste in general, is an important and integral concern of all citizens of the european union. the situation is quite different in the european union. in some countries, 10% of bio-waste is landfilled, in others, unfortunately, up to 90%. the tasks for all of us should therefore be: the first task waste prevention and reduction, the second task, specific to the present situation, to make the european union a society that recycles waste. as regards compost, i.e. biological waste, the possibility of using low-quality compost must be considered and evaluated in order to avoid harm to the environment and to humanity. and at european union level, a proper definition of the possibilities for using low-quality compost and a definition of when compost is considered a product and when it is considered waste would help member states to better orient themselves in their approach to compost use. appropriate legal regulation at european union level is therefore necessary.
in writing. - i strongly disagree with the remarks of mr tomasevski, mep, on the situation of the polish minority in lithuania, which i consider to be unobjective and far-fetched. but unfortunately, our seimas ethics committee's attempt to treat the mep as a lithuanian civil servant or civil servant was also quite unsuccessful and inadequate to reality. the use of moral levers, public opinion and ethical appeals in the media is one thing, but the attempt to influence the freedom of speech and thought of meps in political decisions is something else entirely. we were wrong and therefore there is no other way than to acknowledge with honour that mr tomaševskis is technically and procedurally correct in this conflict, just as the european parliament's assessment of the situation is correct. i therefore vote in favour of the ep's position. otherwise, it would be inconsistent not only with the ep but also with the eu member states vis-à-vis lithuania.
in writing. - i support this report because, under article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, mr tomaševskis cannot be considered to be criminally responsible and the facts described are not the subject of parliamentary immunity, since article 2 of the statute for members of the european parliament provides that 'members of parliament shall be free and independent'. article 3 also provides that members shall vote individually and in person. they shall not be bound by any instructions and shall not have a binding mandate. 2. agreements on how the mandate should be exercised are null and void. the decision of the supreme ethics commission therefore infringes the principles of the freedom and independence of a member of the european parliament enshrined in the statute for members of the european parliament, which is part of european union law, and the empowerment of the supreme ethics commission under the laws of the republic of lithuania to monitor the activities of members of the european parliament elected in lithuania may be in breach of provisions of community law.
in writing. - i supported this report. the baltic sea strategy is the first and so far only attempt to develop a comprehensive overall development strategy. it is already clear today that the actions undertaken by individual member states are not sufficiently effective and fragmented, and that it is necessary to promote cooperation at regional level. the current disparities in economic development and innovation in the baltic sea region require the development of the potential of all sectors, including transport, energy and tourism. the opportunity to take advantage of the additional benefits of the baltic sea strategy and other future macro-regional strategies to achieve a new level of synergy that could help to reduce existing disparities in order to create a highly competitive, stable, shared prosperity area is crucial in these conditions of an ageing society and the emergence of new challenges of globalisation.
in writing. − as a lithuanian and a liberal, i will always support a strategy that will help the baltic sea region become a best practice example of sustainable development and regional cooperation. the resolution on the baltic sea strategy, which the european parliament has today endorsed with the support of the liberals, focuses on lithuania's potential. the strategy aims to reduce the baltic region's dependence on russian energy, to link the electricity networks of the countries in the region and diversify energy resources, to ensure the extension of the railway line from berlin to the baltic sea, and to address the difficulties of crossing the border with russia. these are four very important steps for lithuania. the european parliament also adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east, calling on the eu to take action to prevent the spread of the virus and to ensure that the situation in the region is not further worsened. all the baltic countries, including russia and belarus, have to comply with the highest standards of nuclear safety and environmental protection. i hope that my written statement on the construction of a nuclear power plant in belarus, which i have submitted to my colleagues in parliament for their signature, will be supported even more strongly by them after this vote.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the european union strategy for the baltic sea region and the role of microregions in the future cohesion policy, in particular because the strategy needs to be implemented more quickly, especially in the context of the energy policy, which is one of the priority areas of the strategy. it is an important part of the external relations of the eu and its member states. we must develop cooperation between the baltic states and the neighbouring countries, while reducing the region's energy dependence. it is good that this strategy has found a place for nuclear security in the region. i hope that the provision that eu countries must adhere to the highest safety and environmental standards in the case of planned nuclear energy development in the baltic sea region, and that the european commission must monitor and control whether neighbouring countries, especially those with plans to build nuclear power plants near the eu's external borders, follow the same approach and international conventions, will not remain on paper but will be implemented. we must ensure that not only the eu member states but also neighbouring countries, in particular russia and belarus, where nuclear power plants are planned, do not look the other way. the creation of the baltic nuclear triangle is not only a concern for lithuania but also for europe. the plans of russia and belarus to build new nuclear power plants on the eu's eastern borders pose a serious threat to the ecological security not only of scandinavia but also of western europe.
in writing. − it is important for the eu to have a macro-regional vision of the baltic sea region. cooperation with non-eu countries is also beneficial in the fields of environment, energy and others russia, belarus. i voted in favour of the report without hesitation because it rightly states that the eu countries should set an example in the field of the environment, nuclear safety and, in particular, the construction of new nuclear power stations. we should also demand the highest standards of goodwill and cooperation from our neighbours, especially those who plan to build their own nuclear power stations on the eu's borders. unfortunately, the decision by belarus to choose a site for the new nuclear power plant only 25 kilometres from the lithuanian border and 50 kilometres from the capital vilnius is not what i would call a friendly gesture. no other eu capital is so close to the union's external border and cannot be in such a situation. environmental ngos in belarus are sounding the alarm because they believe that the design and construction of the power plant does not comply with international safety and environmental standards. it is a matter of concern that the presentation of the project to the public in both belarus and lithuania was organised superficially, without answering the main questions. the eu cannot ban the construction of nuclear power plants right on the union's external border. but together, we can negotiate with the belarusian authorities for a site. the eu has also committed to the development of a comprehensive and effective civil aviation safety regime in the baltic sea region.
in writing. − the eu strategy holds enormous potential for us and our neighbours within several policy areas. successful implementation of the strategy could enhance the region’s prosperity and accessibility, and ensure security in the region and protect the environment. optimal results can only be achieved with the pooling of resources towards commonly defined goals. closer co-operation between baltic countries will reduce differences between our countries, help harmonise our markets and make them more accessible. its unique geographical position and interdependence puts the baltic states in a strong position to use the eu strategy to improve relations with our non-eu neighbours. possible areas for co-operation with russia include: transport connections, tourism, cross-border health threats, environmental protection and energy. we also need to address the lack of appropriate infrastructure and accessibility between various transport networks. the baltic sea is one of the most polluted sea areas in the world; only co-ordinated joint action can reverse this. the implementation of the strategy has been slow so far. we need to kick-start the process and step up our efforts. looking ahead, i believe that the strategy’s agenda will be progressed further when the eu presidency is held by baltic states – poland in 2011 and lithuania in 2013.
in writing. - i supported this report. a well-coordinated eu regional policy can boost the competitiveness and employment of eu regions. in the wake of the economic slowdown caused by the global economic and financial crisis, eu regional policy is an important part of the european economic recovery plan. i believe that regional policy in the future must be based on the priorities set out in the eu 2020 strategy, such as knowledge-based sustainable growth, achieved through the use of new sustainable economic growth pathways, better business conditions for all regions, fair competition, promoting job creation, entrepreneurship and innovation, developing smes and supporting their growth. in the context of regional policy, the use of the structural funds is of particular importance, and i believe that greater flexibility in the structural funds would allow the immediate launch of the programmes envisaged, the implementation of which would contribute to improving the economic and social situation in the individual regions.
in writing. - mr president, we are talking about the economic and financial crisis today, but can we learn from it? the consequences of the misregulation in the united states, where banks lent to customers who couldn't pay their bills, and inevitably led to the subprime crisis, will be felt for a long time to come around the world. the european union's regional policy is therefore becoming a crucial part of the european economic recovery plan and the largest source of community investment in the real economy, but there is a lack of effective mechanisms for the coordination of the european union's economy and for coordinated growth. cohesion policy, through the structural funds and other actions, is of paramount importance. regional policy is not only a means of counteracting the immediate negative effects of the economic and social crisis, but also a long-term policy instrument for overcoming the structural difficulties that have become particularly evident during the crisis, especially in terms of competitiveness and employment in the member states. it is also important for lithuania to recover from the crisis as quickly as possible and to focus on increasing competitiveness and employment.
in writing. − due to the lack of a single, effective mechanism for economic coordination and balanced growth within the european union, cohesion policy is playing a leading role in helping us get back on our feet. in particular objective 2 of the structural funds has been – and remains – one of the most important pillars of cohesion policy, especially in the context of exiting the economic crisis. for countries like lithuania, more flexible access to the eu regional funds would go a long way to help the recovery of areas worst hit by the crisis. this flexible funding could create new jobs and would have to include diverse areas: investment for infrastructure, support for small firms, professional training, and industrial and rural modernisation. it is important that these instruments are not solely used as fire-fighting interventions. our efforts must also be focused on long-term restructuring outcomes and the transition to a more sustainable economy – flexibility is also crucial for long-term policy. objective 2 and other cohesion policy branches can also help once again to narrow the gap between eu member states. for lithuania it is particularly important to catch up where it left off before the financial tsunami hit, and to regain its hard-earned status as a ‘baltic tiger’.
in writing. − i support this regulation on the rights of passengers on urban and long-distance buses. this regulation aims to establish the rights of bus passengers in order to make road passenger transport more attractive and to create a level playing field between carriers from different member states and between different modes of transport. it is also necessary to ensure that the rights of bus passengers are equivalent to those already established in the areas of air and rail transport. passengers must be entitled to compensation in the event of delay or cancellation of travel, loss of baggage, death or injury to passengers. there should also be a system for handling complaints and for compensation. it is necessary to ensure the right to mobility of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility by providing free assistance where necessary.
in writing. − i support this proposal, as the proposal on the rights of passengers on maritime and inland waterways together with the proposal on the rights of passengers on urban and long-distance buses are part of the package proposed by the european commission in december 2008. building on the rights that air and rail passengers have acquired under current european union legislation (as an example of the very successful european union legislation that has created tangible rights for its citizens), these proposals seek to extend passenger rights to maritime and inland waterway transport, taking into account the specificities of these sectors. this would make this transport more attractive, more reliable and would create a level playing field for carriers from different member states. the adoption of a regulation laying down new rules will strengthen the protection of all passengers in general and of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility in particular. however, an excessive extension of the scope of the regulation to small vessels would place an additional burden on operators of small vessels, which would in many cases be unlikely to meet the requirements of the regulation.
in writing. − i support this regulation on the establishment of advanced land transport systems and interfaces with other modes of transport. the use of advanced information and communication technologies is proposed to address the growing challenges of road infrastructure. however, specifications should be drawn up in particular for the use of these tools, such as information on travel by means of various modes of transport, provision of traffic services, information on safe parking places for lorries and commercial vehicles, necessary for the harmonised deployment of the emergency call throughout europe. however, the commission should first draw up an annual work programme to be implemented by the member states. member states should take the necessary measures to ensure the harmonious and efficient introduction and use of vehicles and services in the community: updating of road transport information, cooperation between traffic management centres.
in writing. − i voted for this document because it would speed up the implementation of solutions for intelligent transport systems. over the past few years, these solutions have been implemented more slowly than other modes of transport, with a rush to deploy resulting in a patchwork of national, regional and local solutions. the development of advanced transport systems must be welcomed and must be done in close cooperation with all relevant public and private sector partners. the agreement thus makes it possible to avoid the associated delays and inefficiencies in travel: transport would become more efficient, safer, cleaner, travel times would be reduced, and this would clearly benefit transport users.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because maritime transport, even for ships travelling from one port of the european union to another and not calling at a third country port, is subject to complex administrative procedures. this leads to additional administrative burden and additional costs for the transport of goods by ship. this makes maritime freight transport less attractive and its potential less exploited. the wider use of electronic data exchange tools and the application of electronic maritime systems and the one-stop shop principle should be encouraged, as well as the reduction of formalities, the optimisation of flows and the best use of space in ports, the use of a common language and the simplification of the discharge procedure for the issue of a maritime certificate.
in writing. − the transport sector is crucial to the creation of the european single market. it is also an important part of the development of the eu and its regions and has a direct impact on social cohesion, accounting for 10% of the eu's gross domestic product and more than 10 million jobs. it is therefore necessary to ensure greater accessibility of transport and to create and improve missing infrastructure links, and to promote the use of multiple modes of transport. it is also necessary to tackle the fundamental problem of the negative impact of traffic on health and the environment, to reduce co2 emissions from transport by means of sustainable measures such as the integration of energy from different sources, support for research and the development of less environmentally harmful technologies and modes of transport. however, these challenges require increased funding not only from member states but also from eu funds.
in writing. − at present, the baltic states are to a large extent isolated from the european transport network. we must strive to integrate the baltic sea region more closely into the ten-t priority axes, including the rail axis from berlin to the baltic coast (ten-t1) and the motorways of the sea (ten-t 21). more emphasis should be also be put on short sea shipping and inland waterway transport, which is cost-efficient as well as increasingly environmentally friendly. in order to remain competitive in the future, many european ports – such as klaipeda in lithuania – need to modernise their infrastructure. however, the effects of the financial crisis on the transport sector should not be overlooked. given the scale of necessary transport investments, it is vital to ensure european cooperation and to prioritise projects prudently. there is more to transport than merely trucks, traffic and tariffs. transport also relates to the freedom of movement for persons and goods, as well as the development of the european single market. it also boosts employment. above all, as recent high-profile train and plane crashes tragically reminded us, safety must continue to be one of the priority areas of future transport policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the economic downturn has caused a huge increase in unemployment rates in the european union, which has hit young people very hard. today, more than 5.5 million young people (21.4%) under the age of 25 are unemployed, twice the overall unemployment rate. youth unemployment is one of europe's most pressing problems. it is a loss of economic growth, which can lead to a collapse of the tax base, and which is detrimental to investment in infrastructure and public services. this also leads to higher welfare costs and under-investment in education and training. all member states must take action to tackle youth unemployment in a manner that respects national specificities. it is necessary to ensure growth and create new jobs, especially for young people, and to give priority to cooperation between business and education providers. member states need to ensure equal access to education for all, guaranteeing the right to free and adequately funded education from kindergarten to university and financial support for young students. it is necessary to encourage member states to continue investing in education and training, even in the face of fiscal constraints. the financial independence of young people is important, as it guarantees them the possibility of living an economically independent life.
in writing. − tragically, the hardest hit by the economic crisis are those upon whom our future rests. with 5.5 million people unemployed among the under 25 year olds, the youth unemployment rate in the eu is nearly twice the percentage as that observed among the working population as a whole. in lithuania, last year, every eleventh young person was unemployed compared to every twenty-fourth in 2008. we need to boost youth employability by helping adapt educational skills to labour market needs. support measures such as quality internships, apprenticeships and traineeships can aid a smooth transition from education to employment. however, it is important that these internships do not replace real jobs – we need to protect young workers from exploitation; nor should the advantages of non-formal learning be neglected. for lithuania it is vital to prevent an increasing brain-drain of skilled labour. eu member states should develop youth retention strategies – although these schemes can only be successful if young people feel they are a valued part of society. if we fail to reduce youth unemployment we will be faced with a lost generation of workers who will grow up with poor job prospects while straddled with growing public debt.
in writing. − as the eu economy and territory grow, waste volumes continue to increase steadily. in order to manage the management of bio-waste effectively, the priority should be to prevent or reduce it. this requires the involvement of citizens themselves. in addition, biowaste can be used as a feedstock for the production of biofuels for the bioenergy, electricity and transport sectors. efficient management of bio-waste can help to achieve the eu's target of 20% of energy consumption from renewable sources by 2020. however, in order to achieve the objective of more efficient management of waste resources and reducing the costs of bio-waste management, the european commission should draw up a directive on bio-waste management. this directive should include the establishment of a waste collection system, which would be mandatory for member states, and provide for national methods for the recycling of biological waste in order to avoid less favourable methods such as landfilling and incineration.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the commission green paper on the management of bio-waste in the eu, which makes a strong commitment to combat climate change and to reducing the negative impacts of economic growth. even though bio-waste treatment has already been widely discussed in the european institutions, one cannot but notice how much the situation has changed in the past few years. whereas technological progress has to be included in the debates, no less than 11 new member states have joined the eu along with lithuania, all of them bringing specific waste management practices. while the annual amount of bio-waste in the eu is estimated at 76.5-102 mt for food and garden waste and up to 37 mt from the food and drink industry, i find it of utmost importance to pave the way for a debate on the possible need for future policy action. improving bio-waste management and developing the use of bio-waste as a resource will result in considerable economic, social and environmental gains and help turn the eu into a resource-efficient ‘recycling society’.
in fact, many of us politicians have not been able to answer one simple question: why did this financial crisis happen where we were before and why couldn't we have foreseen it? i think we left the financial market participants with a simple question, the question of control. and i think that today the creation and emergence of these three institutions is inevitable and indeed it has to be done. the data collected by these three institutions will be of great importance, and will be partly confidential. and i think that the completion of the main chain, as mentioned by commissioner barnier, also requires the establishment of a european rating agency. if we have a closed system, we will be able to use the data we collect in the future to increase our competitiveness in the european market.
in writing. i am pleased that belgium, having taken over the presidency of europe from spain, has put on its agenda a number of tasks of major importance to the european union as a whole. belgium expects a stronger, more determined europe, oriented towards the implementation of the social model, and europe must therefore strive for a closer dialogue between the european union and its citizens. employment will be one of the main social objectives of the belgian presidency. i agree that investment in human capital and job creation are integral objectives of social and economic development. it is of the utmost importance that belgium, during its presidency, focuses on creating new jobs and on increasing the opportunities for the unemployed to re-enter the labour market. youth unemployment also requires more attention, and measures that promote learning and provide young people with job opportunities immediately after graduation are welcome. as this year is the european year against poverty and social exclusion, i am pleased that belgium will pursue further action in this area. i support belgium's commitment to further strengthen the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and to combat violence against women.
i supported this important report. rapid scientific and technological developments have led to the development of highly advanced and innovative food production processes and devices. however, food produced using genetic engineering, genetic modification of cells and nanotechnology raises serious concerns about its impact on human health. scientific and technological progress is inevitable and necessary in today's world, but it must be safe and remove doubts about the negative consequences for human health. therefore, food produced by such processes should be subject to very strict control and placing on the market rules. consumers should be given the right information about themselves and the right to choose.
in voting on the regulation on novel foods, i voted against the introduction of food products from cloned animals on the food market in the european union. i voted against the inclusion of the term 'meat of cloned animals' in this regulation. i think that we need to make a fairly clear distinction between research and practical use, in this particular case the use of such foods in our daily lives. the majority of the citizens of the european union are against the introduction of cloned meat into the food market, so we have to, we have to take that into account. first, the quality of such meat is questionable and its effects on human health have not been definitively assessed. another important factor is the ethical considerations, the ethical aspect. we are sending a rather clear political message today that we are against the introduction of cloned meat from cloned animals into the european union food market. and we ask the european commission to come up with a legislative proposal so that we can continue to talk about this.
madam president, i voted in favour of all those reports related to financial institutions and financial services, including the report by our colleague josé manuel garcía-margallo. this legislation on financial institutions, aimed at better regulation of banking activities, increasing transparency of derivative markets and implementing measures in relation to sovereign credit default swaps, is greatly needed to prevent economic and financial crises in the future. it is clear that the under-regulated financial markets and the activities of the financial institutions were the prime causes of the current crisis and the worldwide recession. the financial and economic crisis has in turn created real and serious risks to the stability of the financial system and the functioning of the eu’s internal market. to avoid the vicious circle of recession and mistrust in the financial markets, we urgently need more and wiser regulation. our partners in the united states house of representatives have already undertaken such steps with the passing of the dodd-frank bill. it is high time to do the same for the european parliament and the european union.
madam president, i voted in favour of the resolution and now i would like to express my strong support for the opening of eu accession talks with iceland and for its eventual membership of the union. iceland is without a doubt a european country with a strong democratic culture, a robust human rights system and a developed economy. indeed, the time has come for the eu to expand into areas that fulfil democratic, geographical and other criteria for accession to the eu. the enlargement of the eu should not stop now, as there are still other european countries on the waiting list, such as croatia and other balkan countries, and – possibly and hopefully – one day even ukraine, georgia and belarus. we should not forget that the enlargement of the eu has been its most successful foreign policy instrument, having completely transformed the political and economic landscape and the wider european continent. let us again set the process in motion, with iceland being the first post-lisbon newcomer to the eu.
in writing. − i voted for this report. in the financial sector remuneration policies for categories of staff whose professional activity has a material impact on the company’s risk profile have been such as to encourage transactions seeking short-term profits, with increasingly risky business models being developed to that end, to the detriment of workers, savers and investors, and sustainable growth in general. inappropriate remuneration structures of financial institutions played a big role in the accumulation of risks that led to the current financial, economic and social crisis. therefore, i very much support commission’s proposal to set up sound and transparent remuneration practices which should be continually reviewed and, where necessary, adapted in order to create uniform conditions throughout europe and secure the global competitiveness of the european finance industry.
in writing. − in the past year, lithuania and a number of other eu member states with similar fates have fallen below the bottom and have not yet reached the bottom. we do not yet know the final consequences, which may be very sad. jobs have been lost, businesses have gone bankrupt, and most of our citizens are still forced to endure painful reforms. the burden of the crisis has been too heavy on the taxpayers. all of this could have been avoided if we had the necessary international crisis management rules in the banking sector. the existing eu and international supervisory mechanisms in the financial sector have been ineffective in preventing and sufficiently containing the crisis. we are all in the same boat and we need to take strong measures to create the preventive mechanisms and safety nets that ensure the sustainability and stability of the financial system. this test must include at least three elements: first, an effective eu supervisory structure, linked to the european systemic risk board; second, the eu crisis management framework supporting interventions, with a strong eu code of conduct in the areas of governance and relevant expertise and financial resources; and third, a much-needed measure to level the playing field for business across the eu. only then could business conditions be monitored on a level playing field throughout the eu. the most important thing is that lithuania, like other eu countries, manages its public finances in an efficient, transparent and responsible manner. it is necessary to restore public confidence and economic self-respect in our countries.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i am sure that most of you are familiar with article 49 of the treaty on european union, which states that 'any european state may express its wish to become a member of the union'. lithuania is a fairly young eu member and i think it would be selfish and hypocritical to close the door behind us. however, by the time lithuania joined the european union in 2004, it had to undergo a number of reforms and make painful compromises in order to meet the union's accession criteria. iceland is in for the same. the political and economic upheaval that led to the collapse of the icelandic banking system in 2008 sent a clear warning signal to the whole of europe. iceland is now trying to recover, but it still has a long way to go before it can restore its economic stability. compensation for 'saving' depositors and debt repayment are a good start for some eu member states. it is also important to regain the trust of both the domestic and foreign public. iceland has much to offer in itself, including its strong democratic culture, which would undoubtedly enrich our union. iceland is a major contributor to the eu's environment and energy policy, through its renewable energy and its experience in combating global warming. it will be up to iceland to fulfil the accession criteria and to decide whether it will actually join the union. in the meantime, we should continue to strengthen our relations with that country and continue the cooperation between the european parliament and the icelandic parliament.
mr president, i would like to congratulate our colleagues, who have contributed much to defending parliament’s position in the negotiations with the council and the commission. in setting up this highly important post-lisbon institutional body, the result we have largely meets the interests of the european parliament and of european integration more generally. it is very important that parliament managed to maintain the community method in the functioning of the eeas, as well as the power of budgetary oversight. it is also very important that the motion for a resolution reiterates the principle of geographical balance with regard to the recruitment process within the eeas. we should insist that this principle remains strong and is duly upheld in the later stages of the development of the service. finally, we expect a lot from the financial and staff regulations that are to be adopted to further enhance the structure of the eeas and its community nature.
member of the commission. - ladies and gentlemen of the house, thank you very much for the pronunciation. i myself - and so does mrs damanaki and my colleagues - have taken note of your comments and constructive suggestions and will be glad to return to them in the coming weeks. i would like to make four specific points. firstly, i would like to expressly advise the member states, in the light of the competence of our member states, not to undertake new authorization procedures at the moment and to achieve a result. i believe that a moratorium on the development and decision-making of new rigs is justified at the moment on the basis of applications and therefore new commissioning can be postponed. we are working on an energy strategy for 2020-2050. the crucial question is what role oil will play in the coming decades. in fact, there is a worldwide trend, a tendency, to require more energy from oil. i doubt whether europe needs more oil. i have a goal to go low on oil in our 2020-2050 strategies and to justify and plan that path accordingly. so it's about the way out of the oil crisis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not affected by the crisis. airplanes, for people, for goods, for trucks, will be dependent on oil in the next few decades, despite the development of our railways. it is possible to increase energy efficiency, reduce demand, move some of it and avoid it, but without oil, transport by air and by road by truck will not work in the coming decades. cars: we are currently putting renewable energy in the transport sector at 10% by 2020 are the value we are pursuing together. we have more than 200 million registered cars in the european union, in the member states. if we can get five million of them with electric mobility on the roads by 2020, that would be a great achievement. but there are still 200 million people who run on oil, diesel and petrol. this means that electric mobility is on the rise, but in the next few decades, oil will remain - if you accept individual mobility, and if you are interested in vehicle production - necessary for all the efficiency gains. that is why we will need oil for a relatively long time to come and why we should not increase our dependence on third countries to 100%, especially since third countries are often less suited to our authority and our security requirements than member states and the companies working in the european union. i would like to address the issue of liability and damages. i am in favour of full compensation and the principle of the polluter being at fault or not at fault and of the liability of the company, first of all individually. the first step in the process of creating a new environmental policy is to establish a new framework for the protection of the environment. secondly, we should include the question of whether we propose compulsory insurance, by reason and amount. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to conclude by addressing the issue of jobs. bp, shell, total and others are major european employers with important jobs, and that is about livelihoods. i think it is important to preserve this in the energy sector. i do not want to speculate, but the business sections of our european newspapers are full of questions about whether bp will remain a stand-alone company based in europe in the world market. it is a question of market value and of certain possible changes. clearly, bp, based in europe, is a contact for us, one that can be held accountable, while a change in the shareholder structure - i do not want to quote what is assumed here with chinese state-owned companies - does not strengthen europe's position between politics and the private sector in all matters of security. we shall be happy to report to you in the next few days in the circle of the coordinators for the environment and for industry and energy, and i shall come back to this house in the autumn with our comprehensive proposals.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like firstly to thank all the members of the european parliament for this really constructive debate. we have had, as mr oettinger said, a lot of proposals to take on board. for those people who are asking for an immediate and efficient reaction, i would just like to say that this moratorium will give us the time to check our legislation and see what is needed. we will return to this, and this is not the end of the procedure. i would also underline that the expansion of emsa’s remit to drilling activities will be our first priority. we have to do this, and we completely understand that we have to do this. concerning people and demands for real and tangible results as regards renewable energy, i would just say that the eu 2020 strategy, the commission’s strategy, focuses on giving research the funding and motivation to achieve results. one of our goals in the framework of the research programme under the next financial perspective will be – and it is a priority – renewable ocean energy. i consider this a positive response to your proposals.
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let me also welcome this debate. this was my first debate under this presidency, and i must say that i feel very fortunate to have been able to take part in such a rich, such a nourishing debate, which shows both a very broad consensus among members and a fairly strong convergence with the proposals that have been put forward by the commission. i will ensure that the debate takes place within the council and that this broad consensus and convergence can also be spread within the council. we can see clearly at the end of this debate what the outlines of a broadly revised policy for europe should be, and we can see clearly that, in the end, as the saying goes, 'to something, misfortune is good'. if this disaster that happened far from home allows us europeans to take stock of all our rules, to make sure that they are strengthened now, when we are not facing a disaster, and to ensure that such disasters do not occur, well, it will not have been in vain and we will at least have the merit of having drawn all the conclusions from it. it will be necessary - and this has been said at length - to review all our preventive rules, to examine them after thorough consultation, of course with the industry, of course with the public authorities and the regulatory authorities, but also - i stress this point to the commission - with independent experts, to make sure that we have all the views on these issues. and if so, as long as we do not have an arsenal of rules giving us the near certainty - because there is no certainty in this area - that such accidents cannot happen, the proposal made by the commission to consider a moratorium is a fundamental proposal, and i will also ensure that the council holds this debate and that a decision is taken as soon as possible. the second fundamental principle is that of the polluter-pays principle and, therefore, i understand the proposal for an insurance policy which has a double advantage: firstly, to ensure that, if a disaster occurs - which is clearly not desirable - the person responsible for the disaster cannot be put in a position to escape his financial obligations. it's the most important thing. secondly, if the insurance system is sufficiently well designed and powerful, it will have the advantage of having a deterrent effect and of ensuring that those who might risk venturing into boreholes with a number of risks, given the insurance conditions imposed there, can be dissuaded from doing so. that's one advantage of more than one such system. then, of course, we will have to review all the rules on liability and on disaster response mechanisms. i have already mentioned the usefulness of revising the emsa (european maritime safety agency) regulation to ensure that we have all the means available in our civil protection mechanisms to respond in the event of a disaster. finally, and most importantly, what this disaster reminds us is that europe was particularly visionary when we adopted the energy-climate package in december 2008, the famous 3x20. it is a kind of happy coincidence, in a way, that at the very moment when the previous us administration decided to embark again on an adventurous drilling policy, in alaska itself, and in absolutely extreme conditions, europe was doing exactly the opposite, europe was preparing to give itself the means of a real energy efficiency and a real transition to renewable energies. we can only rejoice and we must continue to say and let it be known that this commitment we made some 18 months ago is becoming more concrete every day. last june 30 was the deadline for all member states to submit their national action plans for the development of renewable energy. i do not know whether all the member states have already submitted theirs, commissioner. i'm sure your administration is putting legitimate pressure on them to get those plans on schedule. belgium did it 48 hours late, which i apologize for, but it was done. these documents show that this fundamental industrial transition is under way. this time, each member state has examined all the internal measures necessary to achieve this transition and has, at the same time, become aware of its potential and the enormous amount of work that will have to be done. the same applies to energy efficiency assessments. as you know, commissioner - and perhaps you also know, ladies and gentlemen - the presidency is very keen to see us make rapid progress on this energy efficiency issue. she's the queen of all politics. renewable energy policies are obviously very good, but it's even better not to consume energy. we know that in the field of buildings, and despite the regulations we have recently adopted on the energy performance of buildings, for example, in the field of heating, in the field of industry and even in the field of transport, there are still enormous gains to be made in europe. a lot of studies have shown that. and if we look at the evaluations that are being made on standards for private vehicles, for cars, for example, we see the effectiveness of these standards, which have contributed very largely to reducing the consumption of fossil fuels, and in particular oil, by european motorists, which shows that this policy is relevant. as you know, commissioner, we are awaiting the first elements of the evaluation of the energy efficiency action plan so that we can start a second, extremely ambitious plan as soon as possible. we shall also return to the subject of renewable marine energy, commissioner damanaki. you know that belgium is particularly attached to the north sea for obvious geographical reasons. we took the initiative some time ago, together with eight other member states and a non-member state which also happens to be a platform-owning country which is also an oil-producing country - norway - to enter into an agreement with ten other member states to form a wind farm in the north sea. this is one of the largest renewable energy development projects. in parallel, we are beginning to consider developing other renewable technologies in these wind farms in the north sea, using the power of the sea for the benefit of these productions. this is also something we will be returning to, and it is also an important debate because, under this presidency, we will have to conclude the action plan 2011-2020, that is to say, to put into practice our energy vision for the next ten years. the aim is to translate the objectives of the 2020 package into concrete and precise proposals, accompanied by financing solutions. we must also start the debate on the 2050 roadmap, the vision for 2050, which is probably the cornerstone of all the commitments we have made. some scientists are now telling us that europe can seriously imagine, by 2050, thanks to an effective energy efficiency policy and the development of renewable energies, reaching 100% renewable energy and thus being free of its fossil fuels within a horizon of about 40 years. this is a debate which we must also conduct and engage in with all the necessary ambition.
in writing. there was a lot of talk about what we should do to prevent events like mexico's in the future. this is particularly relevant for us in lithuania, as we have an oil platform operated by a non-eu state company just off our shores. in the event of an accident on this platform, we would have an ecological disaster off the eu coast, in the most polluted sea on our continent. moreover, no agreements have been concluded so far with the states responsible for the platforms on the removal of the consequences of the accident on this platform. another similar case could arise in the event of an accident on the same baltic seabed gas pipeline, the nord stream. the three cases are linked by a common feature: the environmental impact assessment procedures are paid for by the contracting authorities and are therefore not independent and objective. i urge you to start discussions on the establishment of a system for independent environmental impact assessment. a fund, funded by the companies concerned and administered by independent bodies, is a necessary part of such a system to finance environmental impact assessments, thus ensuring their objectivity. on the other hand, we must ensure that these rules on objectivity apply not only to environmental impact assessments carried out by the eu but also by third countries.
i have been following the events in kyrgyzstan closely in recent months, especially as the name of rosa otumbaeva started to appear in the media. ten years ago, she was my colleague and her country's ambassador in london. the embassies of lithuania and kyrgyzstan are located next to each other. we met often, talked to each other. the impression was that roza otumbaeva was not only an experienced diplomat but also a strong politician of democratic views, who was able to assess the situation in her country and in the world with a sober mind. i believe that her election as president of kyrgyzstan should stabilize the situation in the country, give a start to reforms, improve relations with distant and near neighbors. kyrgyzstan becomes the first parliamentary republic in the region and no longer needs to be ruled by family clans. however, the situation remains extremely complex. ethnic uzbek refugees who have not yet returned to their places of residence ignored the referendum. there is a risk of unrest, especially before the parliamentary elections in the autumn. the european union countries should urgently agree on specific eu intervention mechanisms and measures that could be implemented if the conflict continues to deepen. the eu crisis response mission should play an important role in this regard. the coordination mechanisms between the un, the eu and the osce need to be strengthened. we call on the kyrgyz law enforcement authorities to hold accountable those responsible for the bloody events by ensuring that they are given a fair trial. ensuring the human rights to healthcare, education and employment would be the most appropriate means of uniting society, promoting democracy, and fighting corruption and radicalism.
mr president, i voted in favour of the agreement between the european union and the united states to share financial data for the purposes of terrorist finance tracking. we are well aware of the threat terrorism poses to our own security as well as that of our partners across the atlantic. i do not need to remind you of all the terrorist attacks that have taken place on european soil throughout the last decade. it is also obvious that our american partners represent a very important strategic ally, not only in the area of global security, but also economically and in other areas as well. the commitment to such a strategic partnership was clearly expressed by vice president joe biden in this house just a few months ago. we should therefore be proud that we finally gave consent to the agreement that is so important for efforts to track terrorist activities, especially since the new agreement contains significant improvements, and clarifications made by the european parliament have been largely taken into account.
mr president, i voted in favour of the resolution. i would like to commend the fact that the european parliament engages in discussion with the commission and the council on the very important issue of kosovo’s future. kosovo can be considered the last piece in the complex balkan political puzzle. it is therefore vital that we put the piece in the right place and manage the process in a harmonious and peaceful way. the independence of kosovo has already been recognised by 69 countries, including 22 eu member states. it is important to note that eu integration prospects serve as the strongest incentive for the balkan countries to undertake necessary reforms and also as a factor for regional stability. kosovo is not an exception. therefore, if we want to anchor kosovo in europe and ensure regional stability in the balkans, it is vital that we come up with a common approach towards the whole region and kosovo in particular.
mr president, i also voted in favour of this resolution because i think we should once again reiterate our support for the european integration aspirations of the countries in the balkan region within the stabilisation and association process. albania is certainly a country which has made tangible progress in the context of the reform process. however, it is also a country which needs to do more to get closer to eu norms and accession criteria. more substantial efforts are needed to consolidate democracy and the rule of law and to ensure the country’s sustainable development. the political crisis following the june 2009 parliamentary elections is deplorable. we must make clear to our albanian partners that fully functioning representative institutions – parliament being the most important one – are the backbone of a consolidated democratic system and perhaps the most important political criterion for eu integration.
mr president, i voted in favour of the resolution because i would like to join my colleagues in condemning the violence that erupted in kyrgyzstan last month. it is deplorable that hundreds of armed kyrgyz men stormed the city streets, shooting civilians and setting fire to shops, choosing their targets purely on the basis of ethnicity. i would like to extend my condolences to the families of the approximately 300 dead and the 2 000 who were injured or hospitalised. it is important that the eu keeps pressure on the kyrgyz authorities to conduct a credible, impartial and independent investigation into the violence.
in writing. − the negotiations on the creation of a unique eu body, as provided for by the lisbon treaty, are coming to an end. i hope that the council will also respect the agreement and that the decision on the establishment of the european external action service will be taken by the end of july. it is necessary to ensure that the office is operational as soon as possible and contributes to the high-level formulation of european foreign and security policy, ensures the consistency of the eu's external action and enhances the role of the european union on the world stage. the european parliament must seek to strengthen parliamentary oversight in the implementation of the common foreign and security policy by exercising an active role in both the legislative and budgetary functions. it is necessary to ensure that the office's activities are based on the principle of budgetary neutrality and to avoid duplication of tasks, functions and resources of the office with other institutions. in addition, the issue of responsibility and accountability both in the use of eu budget funds and in the allocation of competences needs to be addressed.
in writing. following the difficult debates over the last few weeks on the european external action service in the relevant parliamentary committees and the various political groups, i would like to thank our colleague elmar brok for his strong involvement in this matter. today's vote lays the foundations for a strong diplomatic service at the level of the european union. the community identity of the service will thus be strengthened and its political and budgetary accountability to the european parliament guaranteed. the new service will also be staffed by at least 60% eu officials. i regret, however, that the hearings of the special representatives for foreign policy in the european parliament are still 'informal'. i hope that this matter will be settled within a few years. nevertheless, the european parliament's powers of scrutiny are strengthened, in particular on common foreign and security policy (cfsp) missions financed from the eu budget.
in writing. − i decided to vote in favour of the report on the european external action service (eeas) and fully support the setting-up of what is a key innovation of the lisbon treaty and a historic decision for the future of europe. only seven months after the entry into force of the new treaty, together we managed to reach a consensus, securing the political and budgetary accountability of the new service to the european parliament. this supervisory role will guarantee a truly democratic control of the service, which is of paramount importance to me. this report will ensure geographical balance as well as better coherence between the different aspects of the eeas. it is not about duplicating diplomatic services within the eu, but about strengthening the eu’s diplomatic services. such an agreement is clear evidence of the european union’s commitment to gathering its force and promoting its values in a more effective way. it will allow the eu to exert a real influence in the international arena. this is a chance for the european union but also for its member states.
in writing. − both albania and kosovo have made progress in reforms to strengthen democracy, the rule of law and sustainable development in the country. however, the objectives set need to be pursued further, in particular in the fight against corruption and organised crime, by strengthening the administrative capacity of public authorities and by ensuring the rule of law. the political conflict in albania over the results of the parliamentary elections, which has been ongoing for a year, is hampering albania's aspirations to become a member of the eu. the albanian political forces need to engage in constructive dialogue in order to reach an agreement on the outcome and on a new electoral law ensuring a fully transparent electoral process. i voted in favour of the resolutions because they also call on the eu member states to look for new ways of interacting with these balkan countries. one of these is to promote human contacts through academic exchanges between pupils, students and researchers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the reform of the common agricultural policy is taking place in the context of an economic crisis and serious financial difficulties faced by the member states, taxpayers, farmers and consumers. the new cap will have to adapt to changing conditions in europe and the world and face a number of challenges. the european agricultural sector will need to ensure food security for consumers and help feed the world's growing population. this will be very difficult, as increasing production will be hampered by rising energy prices and the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. in addition, the effects of climate change will leave large additional areas of land unusable for production, requiring the eu and the global agricultural sector to produce more food with less land, water and energy. i believe that the cornerstone of the cap should remain the objective of ensuring that european agriculture can compete with well-subsidised trading partners (such as the usa, japan, switzerland or norway) and that fair trading conditions are created for eu farmers. furthermore, support for agricultural activities throughout europe must continue to be provided to ensure local food production and balanced territorial development.
in writing. − european parliament resolution on the common agricultural policy ambitious and targeted reform. she has my vote and the liberals' vote. most importantly, the injustices observed were done to farmers in the new countries. the resolution calls for the expectations of the 12 eu members who joined after 2004 to be met and for fair treatment of them in the allocation of european union funds. with the increased powers of the european parliament in this area since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, i hope that the council will not fall back on the unequal direct payments to farmers in the old and new countries and will not agree to any additional co-financing that could undermine fair competition in the eu single market. the new cap ensures that farmers receive effective, targeted support that benefits society at large, in particular consumers. it focuses on food safety and the supply of high-quality products at affordable prices. as a liberal, i can justify the current cap budget only if the new cap creates value rather than distorts the market, makes the eu more competitive with its trading partners, creates jobs and fosters balanced agricultural and rural development, and is environmentally and landscaping friendly. the reforms proposed by the european parliament are a positive step which i support and hope to see along with the european liberal family.
ladies and gentlemen, i am the target of a political attack. the reporter is lying about me not providing evidence. the committee has forbidden me to comment on this report at a committee meeting. i am officially a victim of political persecution, officially, under the european convention. the case was not initiated by the police, but by the corrupt and politicized department of state security. this department tried to illegally kidnap me at night, during the election, the court banned me from meeting with the voters, but during the election, i was allowed to travel to thailand, indonesia. the rapporteur asks you to infringe six previous european parliament decisions. never before has the european parliament lifted the immunity of political leaders in such cases. this is not the language i spoke in committee. i was not allowed to speak in committee to comment on this decision. i'm blind, without me the decision was made as in stalin's time.
thank you, chairman. i very much welcome the fact that this report recalls the media's duty to inform people about what is happening in the european union, as well as the fact that european union issues should be included in school curricula. in a context of an extraordinary wealth of information about the european union as a whole, the role of the european parliament's information offices operating in the member states is growing. i would also like to stress the need to monitor what is happening in these information offices and how effectively the resources allocated to them by the european union are being used. the report also highlights the role of euronews. i would like to emphasise that this channel should be broadcast exactly as it is stated in the report, in all the official languages of the european union. for example, in latvia we receive information from this channel in russian, but in latvian, the official language, there is no such information. independent journalism has a special role to play. i would also like to call for the introduction of a common european union legislation which would allow the media to be informed about the truth, even in countries where the political power to adopt such national legislation is simply lacking. thank you.
in writing. - the new proposal aims to codify council regulation (eec) no 1612/68 on freedom of movement for workers within the community. this proposal preserves the content of the acts to be codified and seeks to clarify the application of the legal rules on the free movement of workers. the european union must pursue the long-term objective of ensuring the free movement of workers in all member states. all workers must be granted the right to move and to take up employment freely within the member states. the european union must ensure more transparent labour mobility, help workers to improve their living conditions, and become properly integrated into society, and therefore discrimination on grounds of nationality and employment conditions must be abolished without exception. all member states must seek better cooperation among themselves in order to implement more flexible terms and conditions of employment.
in writing. − colleagues, free movement is a fundamental right of workers and their families. this report rightly noted that labour mobility within the union should be one of the means of enabling eu citizens to improve their living and working conditions. it's a matter of freedom, but it's also a matter of dignity. in this respect, accession to the eu has had a very significant impact on my country, lithuania. with a few exceptions, we are theoretically free to work in any eu member state. we are now in the golden age of ryanair, the low-cost airline that makes it easier to travel. lithuania's three largest airports serve more than 40 european cities. it's a blessing and a curse at the same time. the fact that lithuania is experiencing 'mind-leakage' due to continuous migration is of great concern. almost 60,000 lithuanians live in the uk, compared with fewer than 5,000 in 2001. approximately 90 000 lithuanians live in ireland. we are a small nation that has educated and invested in their education, and now we are losing our most active people in their 20s and 30s. we, lithuania and some eu members, must do more if we are to stop this dangerous trend.
in writing. − i support this proposal for macro-financial assistance to the republic of moldova. moldova is one of the eastern partnership countries most affected by the global financial crisis, with a sharp decline in output, deteriorating budgetary indicators and an increased need for external financing. therefore, i believe that timely assistance will help the country to deal more quickly and effectively with the consequences of the financial crisis and to meet balance of payments and budgetary needs. it will also provide the framework for strengthening the country's reform agenda by supporting the government's economic stabilisation programme and its efforts to integrate into the european union. however, in order to ensure the effectiveness and transparency of the assistance provided, it is necessary to strengthen the european commission's supervisory and control role in this area.
in writing. - b. rapkay's report is illegal. the ep has violated my right of defence. i presented the rapporteur with a great deal of evidence of political persecution, but he maliciously refused to pass on my evidence to the other members of the committee. i was not allowed to see the draft decision or to comment on it at a committee meeting. i was forbidden to speak about the fact that i am officially recognized as a victim of political persecution in russia, to comment on the ep's precedents. the rapporteur submitted a draft decision falsifying the text and interpretation of the constitution of lithuania. members of the seimas also enjoy immunity for activities carried out before their election. i was also forbidden to speak on the merits of the case. furthermore, the ep has violated its binding right of precedent. never before in the history of the eu has immunity been revoked in a situation like mine: firstly, i have official status as a victim of political persecution; secondly, as the seimas itself has acknowledged, the department of state security, which launched the attack, is politicized as one of the heads of the department has testified, the order to launch the attack was given by the speaker of the seimas; thirdly, the prosecutors forbid me to meet with voters to go to another lithuanian town, but at the same time during the elections they allow me to go on vacation, to sports competitions, to places of religious significance; fourth, in accordance with the precedents of herkotz, blumenfeld, venelzi, amadei, gaibisso, marchiani, a political leader cannot be held responsible for the accounts. i will appeal this illegal decision to the european court of justice and it will be annulled.
in writing. - i supported this report. the interoperability of business registers is an appropriate means of promoting further integration of the economic area within the european union and of ensuring greater legal clarity for businesses and consumers. business registers are normally administered at national and regional levels. however, increasingly economic activities are carried out on a cross-border basis and it is therefore necessary to ensure better interoperability of business registers in order to reduce costs and save time in the interests of legal clarity and transparency. the current financial crisis has re-emphasised the importance of transparency in all financial markets. with regard to financial recovery measures, increasing access to up-to-date and official information on companies could help to restore confidence in markets across europe. business registers are of crucial importance in this respect, as they record, analyse and store information on businesses, such as information on the legal form, registered office, capital and legal representatives of the company, and make this information available to the public. this will enable the access of creditors, business partners and consumers to official and reliable corporate information on a cross-border basis, in order to ensure adequate transparency and legal certainty in eu-wide markets.
in writing. - i support this report. a balanced economic and social development is needed to achieve a sustainable eu economy. economic growth must be decoupled from increasing resource and energy consumption, reducing harmful emissions, and combating climate change. also seek to exploit the potential for green job creation in the service and social economy sectors. to achieve this, the commission should develop a strategy for green jobs, on the basis of which regional development strategies should be adopted by regional authorities. the implementation of the strategy should be financed from eu, national and regional resources, the distribution of which should be carefully coordinated. the support would cover research, applied innovation and infrastructure, development of new technologies such as renewable energy and energy efficiency.
in writing. − i support this report because it encourages the creation of sustainable jobs, in other words jobs that meet the needs of the present generation without jeopardising the opportunities of future generations. it is also emphasised that these jobs must create social welfare, i.e. they must serve both man and nature. the objective of the new sustainable economy must be overall economic and social sustainability, creating long-term prospects for increased competitiveness, social well-being and better environmental protection. the quality of jobs is also a particular concern in the context of the increase in precarious employment contracts with low-skilled workers, and this report also encourages the creation of good jobs. these workplaces must ensure stable and socially oriented work, with particular attention to the health and safety of workers, decent work and skills needs. i would therefore urge member states not only to focus on creating high-skilled jobs, but also to give greater value to medium- and low-skilled jobs by creating good working conditions. i also support the initiative that it is essential to adapt lifelong learning strategies to the needs of older workers, with the aim of involving workers over the age of 55.
in writing. − colleagues, the pursuit of a sustainable economy is not only an ecological imperative, but also one of the cornerstones of our strategy for a social europe. but such changes will only bear fruit if they are socially fair and lead to more employment, better working conditions and more social protection in the long term. therefore, a sustainable economy must include not only social and ecological sustainability but also technological and economic sustainability. you don't have to object to that. we need more creative tools. for example, energy efficiency. the construction sector in lithuania was among the sectors most affected by the economic crisis. most old lithuanian buildings are very uneconomical imported energy resources are used inefficiently, as evidenced by the high heating bills of the population. national projects that provide insulation and increase energy efficiency in buildings are likely to bring money back into the market through wages and investments in the construction sector. at the same time, it will make lithuania less dependent on imported energy resources. of course, this is only one example and does not necessarily apply to all member states of the union. but it shows that, especially in times of crisis, we need to think more creatively and join forces where we need to build the foundation for a sustainable future.
in writing. - i supported this report and the concern it expressed for the situation of eu farmers. the global economic and financial crisis and the volatility of food and basic commodity prices have caused serious difficulties for producers of agricultural products, which have also affected consumers. although food prices have risen by 3,3% per year since 1996, prices paid to farmers have risen by only 2,1% while operating costs have increased by 3,6%, demonstrating a poor functioning of the food supply chain. in addition, average farmer incomes in the 27 eu member states fell by more than 12% in 2009, meaning that farmers are no longer able to earn the income they need from their work. nevertheless, farmers and the agri-food sector need to continue to produce food of very high quality at affordable prices for consumers. i agree that there is a need for more transparency in the agricultural sector and that the european commission should take the lead and propose mandatory annual reporting of market share by leading traders, processors, wholesalers and retailers.
in writing. − in the face of both economic hardship and climate challenges, european farmers face unavoidable challenges. a number of problems arise from the volatile prices of basic agricultural and food commodities. the european commission's communication addresses price transparency, competition and improving food quality, but some important elements are missing. the resolution adopted today is therefore of great importance, as the european parliament, in expressing its opinion, draws attention to the very unequal bargaining power of farmers, which has led to the abuse of the existing situation by various players on the agricultural market, distorting farmers' incomes, and the conclusion of unfair contracts and cartel agreements. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the food market needs to be better managed in order to ensure fair returns for farmers, to promote price transparency throughout the food supply chain, to promote competition and to combat price volatility, to improve the exchange of information between market partners, and to take account of challenges such as climate change and biodiversity loss.
in writing. − i voted for the ep report on fair farmers' incomes because one of the main objectives of the eu's common agricultural policy - ensuring adequate incomes for farmers - still remains unfulfilled. while food prices in the eu have risen by 3.3% a year since 1996, prices paid to farmers have risen by only 2.1% and their running costs have risen by 3.6%. this indicates that there is an imbalance in the food supply chain due to the dominance of traders, supply undertakings, processors and retailers in this business. i therefore believe that it is necessary to encourage the development of farmers' economic organisations and the creation of cooperatives, which increase farmers' influence and their bargaining power. i support the proposals in the report to increase price transparency in the agricultural products sector, in particular to combat speculation in the main agricultural commodities, to control price fluctuations and to facilitate the exchange of information on prices and contracts between market participants. it is particularly important to prevent the abuse of buyer influence in the food supply chain. i strongly support the proposal adopted by the committee on agriculture to introduce programmes to encourage the sale of products on local markets and to achieve preferential conditions for producer organisations, farmers' cooperatives and smes in the food supply chain in public procurement. it is a pity that parliament has rejected this proposal.
in writing. - i supported this report. the egf was initially intended solely to mitigate the negative impact of globalisation on the most vulnerable and least qualified workers in some sectors, who lost their jobs as a result of major changes in world trade which seriously disrupted the economy. since 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf has been extended to cover workers made redundant as a result of the financial and economic crisis, for applications lodged from 1 may 2009 to 31 december 2011. although the number of applications has increased recently, the use of the egf remains low in the poorest regions of the eu, where the people who have lost their jobs need the most support. such uneven use of egf support is linked to the different strategies of the member states. in support of the provisions set out in the document, the financial support from the egf must be provided more quickly and efficiently in order to help as many workers as possible. it is necessary to develop and adopt new measures to allow member states to submit applications for mobilisation of the egf as soon as the collective redundancies are announced rather than after they have taken place, and to shorten the time taken to reach a decision on the granting of the aid.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the negative impact of the economic and financial crisis on employment and the labour market in europe remains enormous, with workers continuing to be made redundant on a massive scale in various sectors of the economy, and because the number of applications from eu member states for financial assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund is also increasing sharply. however, the current procedures for financial support are too complex and the period for obtaining funding is too long. at present, the time taken for the member state to receive financial assistance from the globalisation adjustment fund is between 12 and 17 months, which means that most workers made redundant do not receive financial assistance in time and become hostages to the effects of globalisation and the crisis. it is therefore necessary to simplify the procedures of the fund as soon as possible, since this is the only way to reduce the time taken to receive financial assistance by up to half. it is also essential that the eu institutions ensure a smooth and rapid decision-making process when considering issues of financial support, as delays in such decisions can only worsen the already difficult situation of workers. i would also encourage member states to exchange examples of good practice and in particular to learn from those member states that have already set up national globalisation adjustment fund information networks involving social partners and stakeholders at local level, so that an appropriate support system can function in the event of mass job losses.
in writing. - i supported this report. the regulation we voted on today is based on the brussels convention, and it is one of the most successful pieces of eu legislation that has laid the foundations for the european judicial area. the application of european rules based on uniform examples of case law promotes greater legal specificity and predictability of decisions by avoiding multiple concurrent proceedings. the free movement of judgments is one of the essential conditions for the functioning of the european judicial area. i therefore support the position expressed in the document that this regulation needs to be updated in order to guarantee the effective circulation of judgments.
in writing. − many minority communities in the european union, especially women and girls, experience multiple forms of discrimination and are therefore more vulnerable to social exclusion and poverty than indigenous women. being a woman of a certain ethnic group is not a disadvantage in a democratic society, and the european union is therefore committed to giving women more and more rights and to promoting innovative ways of raising awareness of women's rights. both the commission and the member states must ensure that gender equality and anti-discrimination are fully implemented, that ethnic minorities have access to support services and to various educational programmes. however, the social integration of women from ethnic minority groups remains an open question in the european union. in the absence of a coherent eu policy on the integration of migrants, i would urge the commission to take action as soon as possible to develop eu guidelines to help member states to provide women from ethnic minorities with better and faster access to education, employment opportunities, healthcare, social benefits, financial support. i agree with parliament's position that gender equality policy issues must also be fully implemented in national minority groups.
in writing. −the entry into force of the lisbon treaty has made the prohibition of all forms of discrimination a matter of competence for the european union. it is therefore important to adopt a positive approach to ageing and to create opportunities for older people to live life to the full. i am pleased that parliament has produced a report calling for action on an ageing society. in particular, it is important to pay particular attention to older women living in poverty, as their pensions are generally lower due to lower pay in sectors where women work. in addition, the elderly constitute a large consumer group, which means that the demand for services for the elderly is increasing very rapidly and will increase in the future. however, barriers to access to easily accessible, quality and affordable public and private services are encountered. it is therefore important that the commission take action to regulate access to many basic services, the need to ensure a quality of life, in order to avoid physical, psychological and economic abuse. an ageing society is often viewed in a negative light. problems arise with regard to the age structure of the labour force and the sustainability of social protection and health care. older people are indeed assets and provide a key support to society and the family, and their right to live in dignity and independence must be guaranteed.
in writing. from a humanitarian perspective, we should improve services and health care for and increasingly empower a rapidly growing sector of our population - older women - since they, like any other europeans, have the right to lead a healthy, dignified and independent life. from an economic perspective, we should strive for higher employment levels and more flexible and part-time work opportunities for ageing women. tapping into this often neglected source of potential and experience will prompt economic growth, reduce old age poverty, improve the overall living standard of pensioners, and enhance societal cohesion. i voted for this resolution in the hope that tackling these issues with a two-pronged approach would open a path to addressing the more rudimentary but not less eminent problems of gender and age inequality in the workplace, undervalued and undercompensated caretakers, and ultimately, our society's ingrained preference for style over substance when solving gender and age related issues. age, gender and aging loved ones should always be treated as assets, never as liabilities.
in writing. − on 7 september this year, i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament resolution on journalism and new media - creating a public space in europe (a7-0223/2010). various eurobarometer surveys show that citizens are under-informed about eu policies and issues. although the same surveys show that the public is interested in this information. the survey respondents also claim that the lack of such information is one of the main reasons why people choose not to vote and lack confidence in the eu institutions. i believe that for communication to be effective, it must explain that the political decisions taken at eu level have a direct impact on the daily lives of eu citizens who feel that the european union is distant from people and has little influence on solving their real problems. i also agree that the introduction of eu studies into school curricula is necessary to improve public knowledge of the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it proposes ways in which eu citizens, the public, can participate more actively in national and public life throughout the union. until now, eu citizens have been given little information about the direct impact of eu policy decisions on their daily lives. the media in the member states lack a reasoned, non-superficial knowledge of the eu. i agree with the rapporteur that member states should increase the number of accredited journalists in the eu institutions. for example, lithuania currently has no journalists accredited by the eu institutions. the training of journalists should continue, developing their knowledge of the complex eu decision-making process. the 'euronews' television channel could start broadcasting in the languages of most eu member states, and the eu institutions could report on social media, which is becoming increasingly attractive to young people. i particularly support the rapporteur's call for respect for the freedom of the media and its independence from editorial control, in particular the right of public radio and television broadcasters to set their own schedules as they see fit. unfortunately, some eu governments restrict funding to public broadcasters in an attempt to influence staff selection and programme content.
in writing. the economic and financial crisis will continue to place a strain on the european labour market in the years ahead. in these circumstances, tackling unemployment must be one of the main policy objectives of the eu and the member states and the commission's proposed guidelines should better reflect this. i would like to emphasise that these employment guidelines generally do not pay enough attention to gender equality policy and the promotion of women's entrepreneurship. the effective reduction of the risk of poverty in europe requires the setting of binding targets to address gender stereotypes, existing discrimination in the labour market and structural causes of gender pay gaps, as well as barriers to women's access to certain occupational activities and to women's entrepreneurship. nor do the guidelines set a target for reducing illegal or shadow work, as in many countries people are working illegally in these difficult times, simply because they have no other way out of the current situation. the anti-poverty guidelines do not set any ambitious targets at all, and the fight against poverty requires, in particular, employment and education policy measures targeted at the most vulnerable groups at risk of extreme poverty, such as single mothers, older people on low pensions, and the disabled. i therefore urge the member states and the commission to make the best of the guidelines' objectives, otherwise europe will not achieve the results they seek.
president of the council. - mr president, i would simply like to answer a number of questions that have been asked. firstly, as regards the fact that there has not been the possibility of having a debate on all the budget lines as proposed by the council, i assume that these discussions will take place. i think these debates are necessary and we need to discuss the priorities to be given in the context of this 2011 budget. but agreement was not easy to reach in the council. it must be said that this budget was voted on in the council in a way that was not obvious. but this is also due to the budgetary situation of each country. this economic situation is particularly difficult. i would like to point out, however, that despite this difficult situation, despite the difficulties we are all experiencing in our countries, the european budget is increasing compared with the 2010 budget. this is an increase of 2.91%. i said that, to conclude, some would like it to be more, but it is still a significant increase compared to 2010. mrs haug raised the question of heading 1b earlier. i would just like to remind you that this heading is up by 14% compared to 2010. it is therefore not correct that the council does not take account of the specific nature of heading 1b, which has increased by 14% compared with 2010. i think there is a realization of the council that perhaps has not been sufficiently described or sufficiently noted. i would also like to say to the rapporteur for the 2011 budget that in my speech here we also wanted to draw attention to the work of parliament and you mentioned a heading 1a of the budget which parliament wanted to highlight. i wanted to emphasize in my speech that the council had been attentive and indeed wanted to show that, in its work, it was willing to be open to discussion, particularly with regard to youth policy. of course, there is an openness to discussion on this policy because parliament has very clearly identified it as one of its priorities. i would also like to point out that, as regards heading 5 and the institutional aspect as such, it is true that all the institutions will have to make efforts, but it is also true that, in the context of the budget presented by the council, we have not touched on parliament's budget as such. but i think it is important that each institution should save money and that we should all set an example in this difficult year from the budgetary point of view. in conclusion, there is no doubt that we will have a number of further fruitful meetings and discussions in the coming weeks. i hope they will be successful enough to reach an agreement on the 2011 budget and i would simply like to point out that it will not be an easy budget because we have to follow a new procedure, because there are all these new policies to be implemented - you have pointed this out - but also because we cannot ignore the difficult financial and budgetary situation of our member states, each of which has budgetary objectives to achieve. and i hope that it is by being aware of all these difficulties, challenges and constraints that we will find together a budget acceptable to everyone for 2011, and that we will demonstrate together that this new procedure of the lisbon treaty can be successfully concluded, that is to say with a budget that has been adopted for this year 2011.
member of the commission. − this is a question i am taking over from commissioner oettinger and his reply is as follows. the public consultation published on the website ‘your voice in europe’ was carried out between 31 march 2010 and 31 may 2010. in total 510 responses were received. in addition several stakeholders sent written comments to the public consultation in the form of e-mails, letters or reports. in general terms, a large majority of european citizens is in favour of binding, community legislation from which many expect enhancements as regards safety, legal certainty, public involvement and national decision-making. the report is about to be published on the commission webpage. the legislative proposal would be based on chapter 3 of the euratom treaty which deals with health and safety protection. it would aim at creating a community framework for member states to ensure the safe and sustainable management of spent fuel and radioactive waste for all types of waste and at all stages from generation to disposal, avoiding undue burdens on future generations. as the technical assessment is still ongoing, it is too early to describe what environmental requirements there will be. all member states would continue to be responsible for managing their spent fuel and radioactive waste.
thank you for your reply, but it was rather vague and not very specific, and it seems to me that the european union should nevertheless put more environmental demands in this area. i would like to ask, although i understand that there is no commissioner in charge, how the commission intends to finance these things, whether sufficient financial resources will be allocated to ensure environmentally sound solutions.
member of the commission. − this is a very important, but also a rather technical, question. in the case of multiannual programmes, the suspension of budget commitments would not have an immediate impact as payments can be made against related commitments within a period of usually two years. this should protect ongoing projects under multiannual programmes and provide sufficient time for the member state concerned to take corrective action in line with the council recommendations within the edp. the funds would be rebudgeted as soon as the member state meets the council’s recommendations. a definitive loss of payment would only occur if the member state fails to comply with the council’s recommendations. moreover, in line with the communication of 30 june, the new sanction mechanisms should exclude a situation where the reduction of eu spending would lead to a reduction of farmers’ and fishermen’s income. the concrete proposals on the range of relevant expenditure categories and the design of the sanction mechanisms will ensure that this condition is met.
member of the commission. − the last decade has seen major reforms of pension systems and these are continuing in most member states. the commission supports, monitors and assesses the impact and implementation of national reforms through the open method of coordination with a view to developing pension systems that are adequate, sustainable, as well as modern and transparent. current work to monitor and assess pension systems in the eu includes the joint review on pensions by the economic policy committee and the social protection committee. the joint review on pensions takes stock of the results of the last decade of pension reform and assesses progress made in the light of the setbacks due to the crisis and the bigger challenge to deliver pensions against a background of lower employment, lower growth, faster ageing and a much worse fiscal situation. the council adopted an interim report in june and a final report with country profiles should be adopted at the end of the year. the commission also works closely with member states on a wide range of issues relating to pension systems and pension reform. for instance, annual joint reports and peer reviews offer advice and recommendations tailored to the situation in individual member states. to measure progress towards achieving adequate and sustainable pensions, the member states, together with the commission, have developed a set of indicators within the social protection committee. these will also be used under europe 2020 to assess the adequacy and sustainability of member states’ social protection and pension systems. pension reform needs to be based on solutions that preserve the adequacy – and sustainability – of pensions, and which are not carried out at the expense of the elderly and the socially most vulnerable. in his political guidelines last september, president barroso said ‘we need to ensure that pensions do the job intended to provide the maximum support to current and future pensioners, including for vulnerable groups’. adequate pensions therefore means ensuring that older people are not placed at risk of poverty and that they can maintain their standard of living to a reasonable degree after retirement. given the current pressure on pension systems and the problems with alternatives – such as higher taxes on pension contributions or poorer pensioners – the member states need to consider the role that more people working more and longer can play in ensuring pensions are both adequate and sustainable. the commission has always stressed that pension reform is essential but cannot suffice on its own. workers must have both the opportunity and the capacity to work more and somewhat longer in order to acquire adequate pension rights. this means fighting labour market discrimination against older workers, opening job markets for them, providing training and skill updates throughout their careers, adapting working conditions to the needs of people at different stages of life and ensuring that workers’ health and safety conditions improve. much greater efforts are needed here, and europe 2020 provides a framework for such efforts. i hope the member states will set their sights high in their first national reform programmes. the current european framework for pensions – which spans everything from policy coordination to regulation – should be updated in the light of population change, the setbacks and lessons stemming from the crisis and changes in national pension systems. with our green paper on pensions published on 7 july, the commission has opened a europe-wide debate on whether and how the european framework for pensions should be developed to ensure our pensions are adequate, sustainable and safe. the green paper does not dispute the fact that the design of pension systems is largely a member state responsibility. instead, it seeks to contribute to the debate on the eu’s added value for pensions. it looks at how the eu can support the member states in their efforts to adjust their policy and make pensions adequate for the future. and it discusses the options for a more robust european framework for pensions. the green paper is an opportunity to canvass the views of all those with an interest in pensions – not just the member states, but also employers and trade unions who play a key role in some pension schemes and, of course, the european parliament. this will ensure that any measures we propose are based on solid evidence, are effective and proportionate and fully respect the principle of subsidiarity.
thank you for your answer, and i'd really like to hear a specific answer from you. what concrete measures will the european commission take to promote the employment of older people? because the green paper you have presented speaks precisely of the inevitable need to consider the extension of the retirement age as a bad thing, in view of the current demographic situation in the member states of the european union. however, in the absence of concrete measures on the employment of older people, the extension of the retirement age would be detrimental, as older people would be trapped in poverty.
mr president, i welcome the commission’s initiative. i think it is an important achievement that we have managed to agree on the harmonisation of practices in the area of animal experimentation in the eu. this directive marks an important step in ensuring that experiments on live animals for scientific purposes will be replaced as soon as it is scientifically feasible to do so. this directive will first oblige the member states to promote the advancement of alternative methods. i strongly urge the member states to ensure that adequate funding is provided for training, research, development and the implementation of scientifically satisfactory methods or testing strategies that do not entail the use of animals.
in writing. - i supported this very important agreement. the protection of animals used for scientific purposes is a very complex issue in itself, where it is necessary to take into account the interests of many different stakeholder groups, whose views and needs are sometimes very different. i think we've struck the right balance of agreement. the agreement focuses on promoting the search for alternatives to animal testing and significantly improving the conditions for their keeping and use. it also succeeded in maintaining the observations made by the european parliament at first reading on the reduction of administrative burdens and the continuity and viability of european research and industry, which still depends on animal testing. alternatives to animal testing should also be further explored. to this end, it is envisaged to set up an eu reference laboratory to validate alternative methods. the appropriate specialised laboratories established in the member states would contribute to its activities by providing additional resources. i believe that this resolution strikes the right balance between the needs of the industrial and research communities, while at the same time strengthening and harmonising the animal welfare standards applicable to animals used or intended for use in research.
in writing. − the interaction between science and nature for development is always a subject of considerable debate. the european parliament adopted today an important document on the regulation of scientific research involving animals. this document will strike a positive balance between animal protection and research and provide for several important aspects ensuring the protection of animals for scientific research. skeptics argue that the directive is contrary to the principles of animal welfare and that the use of animals for scientific purposes raises serious doubts. however, the latter directive requires that the necessity and possible alternatives to the use of animals be assessed before each test. as well as the obligation for each member state to set up national committees to look after animal welfare and ethical aspects. i voted for this document because i believe that animal testing should be more strictly controlled, but at the same time we must bear in mind the inevitable scientific progress in various fields and the continuity of research.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. in the face of the rapidly growing phenomenon of ageing, it is necessary to take measures, both at member state and european union level, to combat social exclusion and age discrimination among older people. it is necessary to ensure full support for older people in the member states, in particular by creating the conditions for the establishment of a quality health and social care system. ensure also the contribution of the member states to ensuring the provision of long-term care services. implement an information and prevention policy for older people, with particular emphasis on nutrition. the successful achievement of the objectives set requires the development of sustainable systems for the financing of long-term care services. the european commission, for its part, should make efforts to ensure acceptable standards of healthcare for all european citizens, regardless of their material situation.
in writing. − i voted for this report because the new eu member states' employment policy guidelines for 2020 will have a major impact on the labour market for several years to come. i am pleased that the european parliament, through its proposed amendments, has succeeded in setting clear objectives and providing for specific measures in the employment guidelines proposed by the commission. of course, reducing unemployment, ensuring a minimum income and combating poverty and social exclusion remain the top priorities of employment policies in all member states. i also agree that one of the main objectives is to achieve equal pay for equal work and equal working conditions for all employees. i agree with parliament's proposals that employment policy measures should be targeted at the most vulnerable groups of people, because they are the first and most affected by poverty. i also urge the commission and the member states to give maximum attention in the employment guidelines to young people and older workers who face discrimination in the labour market.
in writing. − colleagues, this report rightly emphasises the importance of raising employment levels and increasing labour market participation. it's important for our economy and our society. it is also important not to sacrifice quality for quantity. the situation of the working poor is not addressed at national or eu level. those who work but whose disposable income still forces them into poverty are a significant group. the economic downturn has turned this problem into a europe-wide one, and lithuania is particularly hard hit. these trends are well reflected in the minimum wages workers receive and the widespread reduction of wages as a strict savings measure. people without a higher education are particularly vulnerable. according to eu statistics, the risk of poverty for a working person without a university degree is 16%, twice the average in lithuania and eight times higher than for university-educated workers. unfortunately, this gap in lithuania is much larger than in the european union as a whole. the issue of working poverty has not been sufficiently addressed by member states, including my own. we need more studies on this problem and more concrete measures to reduce poverty in the workforce.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. iran remains the country with the highest number of executions per year. i therefore strongly support the european parliament's position, which strongly condemns the death penalty and calls on the iranian authorities to abolish the use of the death penalty, to renounce all forms of torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment, and to prevent the persecution of those responsible for defending human rights. i support the european union's commitment to promoting human rights worldwide and the implementation of related support programmes, such as the eu-funded european instrument for democracy and human rights. with a budget of €1.1 billion for 2007-13, this instrument ensures respect for human rights and democracy worldwide. the commission and the council, together with other international organisations, should therefore continue to actively develop additional assistance measures to actively defend human rights defenders in iran.
some colleagues have already mentioned that the question put by the european people's party contains a certain amount of mystery and charade without directly stating why and how the problem is raised. a little more clarity on this question would be nice. on the other hand, it must be recognised that some countries in central and eastern europe are particularly vulnerable and feel less secure than the old eu countries. the council common position of 8 december 2008 set out certain frameworks in the area of arms exports. experts acknowledge that the country we are talking about today, france, has not left the framework, but this does not mean that the increasingly concrete implementation of security and defence policy does not require improvement and refinement of the framework and rules. i fully agree with my colleague elmar brok that we need to cooperate more on arms. the aim is to create greater confidence and less suspicion in our union in the field of arms exports, which are sometimes justified and sometimes escalated without justification. the latter pits large and small, old and new eu countries dangerously against each other. it requires more trust and solidarity, which does not come by itself. we need to talk more, consult more, and avoid exaggerated accusations and blurred parallels with the early to mid-20th century, when europe was ruled by the law of the fist. the consultation mechanism within the eu needs to be improved to achieve a concrete result. then this discussion will be useful.
mr president, with the lisbon treaty we have further improved policy coordination and solidarity in many areas, including foreign and security policy. the treaty also contains a mutual assistance clause in case any member state is threatened militarily. in light of this, the plans by france to sell four mistral warships to russia and to share some of the shipbuilding technology seem very alarming. what is more, the mistral warships are clearly offensive – i stress, offensive and not defensive – in nature. therefore, before we actually start doing something about the provisions of solidarity foreseen in the lisbon treaty, we should make sure that we do not diminish the security of our fellow eu member states or that of our neighbours. i urge the council to do everything in its power to initiate wide discussions within the eu regarding a need to develop a common definition and updated approach towards arms sales to third countries.
president of the council. − the council attaches great importance to increasing employment opportunities and participation in the labour market for all citizens, including people with disabilities. some of the main objectives of the europe 2020 strategy endorsed by the european council on 17 june 2010 are of particular interest to persons with disabilities as they aim to promote employment, improve education levels and promote social inclusion, in particular by reducing poverty. in addition, the europe 2020 strategy specifically mentions persons with disabilities in the context of the flagship initiative entitled 'a european platform against poverty'. this initiative will have an impact both at eu level - where the commission should develop and implement programmes to combat discrimination, for example against disabled people - and at national level, as member states will have to focus on creating and implementing measures that respond to the specificities of groups at risk, including disabled people. in line with the conclusions of the european council of june 2010, member states will now have to act to implement these priorities at their level. in addition, all common policies will have to support the strategy. this comprehensive approach should improve the social inclusion of persons with disabilities, as also highlighted in the council resolution on a new european disability framework adopted in june, in which the council explicitly invited member states and the commission to mainstream disability issues in all relevant flagship initiatives of the 2020 strategy and to draw on the human capital of persons with disabilities, including through the implementation of appropriate training and employment measures. in its resolution, the council also invited the commission to prepare, in collaboration with disabled people and their representative organisations, a new european strategy for disabled people for the coming decade, building on, inter alia, the europe 2020 strategy.
thank you for your reply, mr minister, but i would like to point out that the voice of the 65 million disabled people in the european union is still not being heard enough, so my supplementary question is: do you not think that the adoption of the anti-discrimination directive in all the member states of the european union should be accelerated in order to ensure that disabled people live as full citizens? so the question is: what is the state of play of the anti-discrimination directive?
president of the council. - i refer you to the last part of my answer. the epsco council on 21 october, as i said, at the initiative of the presidency, will discuss the matter again and should reach conclusions on employment and social inclusion, which will of course be provided to you.
i thank the minister for his answer on the importance of the open method of coordination, but i would like to point out that this year has been declared the european year against poverty, and it is therefore fitting that, at a time when there is high unemployment and growing social exclusion throughout the european union, we should be fighting poverty. how much impact do you think the open method of coordination has on poverty reduction and is it enough to, say, exchange good practices and see how much attention the scandinavian countries are actually giving to fighting poverty and social exclusion? but will this reduce poverty in the baltic states?
president of the council. - while i can understand that runaway inflation poses a number of problems and that a number of financial mechanisms will need to be rebalanced if this inflation persists, i can only tell you that as a member of the euro area, greece shares a responsibility with the other member states to ensure the stability of the euro area and that its economic policy is, like that of the other member states, a common concern. all member states are expected to pursue sound national policies in line with the stability and growth pact and the broad economic policy guidelines. the country must therefore take responsibility for tackling these problems effectively, to reduce the risk of jeopardising the proper functioning of the economic and monetary union.
president of the council. − in view of the 65th united nations general assembly, the council, at its meeting on 14 june 2010, adopted the priorities of the european union. i would like to remind you that, following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, it is the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy who represents the union in matters relating to the common foreign and security policy in international organisations. the priorities adopted by the council are centred on the following themes. first, to promote the strengthening of the united nations the european union will contribute to work towards building a stronger multilateral system, including by improving the representativeness, transparency, accountability, efficiency and effectiveness of the united nations. the second priority will be to contribute to international peace and security. the european union intends to increase the visibility of its positions and contributions in the field of crisis management in the relevant un bodies, in particular the security council. the third priority theme will be environment and sustainable development, in particular with a view to achieving the millennium development goals. the fourth priority concerns human rights. since its inception, the european union has been one of the most resolute defenders of human rights and one of the most active participants in the united nations system in this field. the european union will actively promote the integration of human rights into all aspects of the work of the united nations, reaffirming that human rights are inextricably linked to the other un security and development objectives. finally, the fifth priority concerns the reform of the united nations system, with a view to improving the functioning, efficiency, transparency and representativeness of the system. as regards the reform of the human rights council human rights council review , the european union is participating in the formal and informal consultations. the union will continue to promote the capacity of the third committee, the only universal body with competence to implement human rights standards, to act. this capacity must be fully preserved. as regards the issue of diplomatic representations, as of 1 december 2009, all european commission delegations abroad have become european union delegations. in the case of geneva, the union delegation and the liaison office of the general secretariat of the council of the european union have adopted temporary working arrangements pending the establishment of the european external action service.
let me firstly point out that continued confusion over how the eu is represented in geneva and new york risks undermining the eu’s ability to act effectively and work constructively with partners. secondly, following extensive internal discussions on priorities regarding the review of the human rights council in 2011, the belgian presidency and the high representative now need to ensure that sufficient resources and political attention are given to outreach activities towards other un member states. also, leadership is required on a number of important resolutions, most notably the resolution on the death penalty and further work towards the negotiation of an international arms trade treaty. i would appreciate your comments on this.
in writing. regulating the use of new technologies in food production a welcome step forward. but we must not forget the threats as we promote innovation. one of them is the placing on the market of cloned animals, their progeny and products derived from cloned animals. this question still raises a number of problems, related to several different aspects. these include animal welfare requirements, as enshrined in the lisbon treaty, the right of consumers to be informed about the origin of the products they consume, and ethical issues. so far, we have more questions than answers on each of these aspects. therefore, until the debate on cloned animals has even started in the european union institutions, we must be very cautious about the placing on the market of these animals, their offspring and their products.
in writing. − better regulation has become a prerequisite for the functioning of the european union, which could in principle help to overcome the economic crisis more quickly and achieve faster economic growth. it is necessary that the institutions respond to the expectations of citizens, of businesses operating in the single market and of national and local administrations, and that decisions are taken as closely as possible to the needs of citizens. i support the provisions in the resolution that the better regulation process should be supported, with the aim of increasing the transparency, effectiveness and consistency of european union legislation. the role of the european commission as a legislative initiative body in this process is particularly important, as it prepares high-quality proposals, reduces administrative burdens and operating costs for businesses and cooperates with member states to ensure the proper implementation of eu legislation.
in writing. − i voted for the report on better regulation because i believe that better regulation is a prerequisite for the functioning of the european union and one of our citizens' rights, which can only be realised through legislation that is transparent and understandable to the citizen. the regulatory environment in the european union is being improved through a number of measures, such as impact assessment, reduction of administrative burdens and simplification and harmonisation of existing legislation. in particular, i support the commission's programme for reducing the administrative burden resulting from european union legislation, which has been in place since 2005 and aims to reduce the administrative burden by 25% by 2012. it is essential to reduce the operating costs of companies operating in the union in order to help them to operate in difficult economic conditions and compete on a global scale, and to streamline public administration procedures. attention should be paid to unnecessary reporting requirements and to the 'once-only' principle of the small business act. electronic means of communication are an effective tool for reducing administrative burdens. the eu institutions must cooperate actively with the member states to avoid divergent interpretations of legislation and so-called 'improvement'. according to the commission, 32% of the eu's administrative burden is due to decisions by some member states going beyond the requirements of eu law and the ineffectiveness of their administrative procedures. it should also be borne in mind that consultation with all stakeholders, in particular the social partners and smes, is essential in the preparation of draft legislation.
in writing. - i support this report. in line with the employment guidelines, member states must make every effort to achieve the overarching objective of sustainable growth and job creation. it is also necessary to address the long-term challenges facing the member states: demographic change, globalisation and the development of new technologies. to achieve this, it is necessary to invest in sustainable growth that will promote the preservation of existing jobs and the creation of new ones, with a particular focus on small and medium-sized enterprises, which generate the majority of jobs in europe. the social employment objectives must also be pursued: promoting quality education and lifelong learning for current and future workers; paying particular attention to promoting the employment of young people, the elderly, the disabled and women in the fight against unemployment; and encouraging the conclusion of atypical employment contracts.
in writing. − the demographic change in the european union is driving the ageing population and important challenges need to be addressed now: meeting the growing demand for healthcare, adapting health systems to the needs of an ageing population and ensuring their sustainability in a society with fewer people of working age. the current high prevalence of poverty among older people, as a result of drastic cuts in pensions and other social benefits in many eu countries, makes it important to develop sustainable long-term care financing systems to finance care for older people. it is also necessary to establish minimum standards for all supervisory sectors, including minimum remuneration. i would like to highlight the need to reduce health inequalities and protect older people in the community and in care facilities. we must also combat social exclusion of older people and any form of age discrimination. we must ensure the conditions for active ageing and a dignified and full life for older people.
ladies and gentlemen, the rejection by my country's parliament of amendments to the law prohibiting all forms of violence against children, including corporal punishment, has only once again shown that in today's society there is a lack of tolerance for the views of the youngest and weakest members of society, and an unwillingness and inability to appreciate the importance of the rights and interests of the child. it has once again demonstrated the urgent need to address the issue of protecting children's rights and combating violence against them. sadly, in my country, many view the spanking of children as a cultural heritage or an effective form of parenting. i strongly disagree with that, and i would like to emphasize that the mismanagement of emotions and the consequent justification of aggression by calling it education is wrong and unjustifiable. i would like to point out that violence poses a serious threat to the physical and mental health of children, their personality development and social development. given that children are the most vulnerable group in society, i call on the commission and the council to strengthen the fight against violence against children by establishing binding standards in all eu countries and to work more closely with member states and non-governmental organisations to prevent violence against children. i also call on the member states to take the necessary action and preventive measures to combat violence against children.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the preparation of this very important document. the increasing dependence on imported energy, in particular gas, is one of the new challenges of the union's security policy, which will require the united and solidarity-based efforts of the union and of us all. the european commission must play a very important role not only in crisis situations but also in shaping the eu's energy policy in general and in particular in gas supply contracts with third country suppliers. i would very much like, mr commissioner, that the very manner and conditions of the signing of the yamal gas pipeline agreement between poland and russia should not become a bad example in the context of all new and future energy strategies and the document under discussion today. the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december called on the commission to take all necessary steps to ensure that the union's energy policy is fully integrated into the union's energy policy.
in writing. i would like to agree with my colleagues and welcome the fact that such an important regulation will be adopted in such a short time. this is further proof that europe is able to react quickly and effectively to a real problem. the principle of solidarity between member states is enshrined in the gas security regulation another step towards a common energy policy. we all probably hope that there will be no more crises like the one in 2009 and that the mechanisms set out in the regulation will not have to be used, but the reality is different. the timeliness of this regulation was confirmed only recently, in june, when gas supplies to lithuania were cut in half as a result of disagreements between russia and belarus. i have repeatedly stressed that for isolated gas markets with a single supplier, such as the baltic states, this regulation will only be effective if they are integrated into the common european union gas network. private investment is often insufficient to build the new pipelines required and therefore additional financing is necessary. i would like to thank my colleagues who understood and took this into account in the negotiation of this regulation and the commission for formally committing to tackling the energy island problem in the energy infrastructure package. it remains only to call on the member states to implement this regulation properly.
the european parliament adopted a regulation on the security of gas supply today. this is a very important step towards the implementation of the common energy policy of the european union. a step towards energy solidarity between the member states of the european union and greater regional cooperation. i voted in favour of this document because i believe that this regulation will ensure that the energy islands of the european union, such as the baltic states, will not be deprived of gas supplies by the monopolists who have unilaterally closed their taps. it also opens the way for european union financing of energy infrastructure projects contributing to the removal of energy isolation. unfortunately, the regulation has abandoned provisions providing for stricter monitoring of the activities of third-country suppliers such as 'gazprom', in particular in the field of competition, and has confined itself to provisions of a general nature. the second, no less important, aspect is the environment. as the regulation also allows for the financing of projects from third countries by the european union, i hope that the european commission will speed up the implementation of the independent environmental impact assessment instrument.
the protection of biodiversity is linked to many other european union policies. both the fisheries, energy and agricultural sectors are affected by the baltic sea's difficult situation in this case. studies show that this sea, which is practically an internal sea of the european union, is one of the most polluted. the european commission is concerned about the loss of biodiversity itself, but at the same time it is not doing enough to tackle the factors that are driving this process. as far as the european union is concerned, it is perhaps fair to say that each country in the european union has to do its homework. to make efforts to ensure a sustainable fisheries policy, the good functioning of natura 2000, to reduce pollution, both co2 emissions and waste water pollution, and to reduce pesticide and phosphate levels. these are the factors which are contributing significantly to the eutrophication of the baltic sea, which is leading to the loss of biodiversity. the irresponsible implementation of large-scale, so-called commercial energy projects in the baltic sea, the lack of a critical approach to their implementation, also contributes significantly to this pollution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the potential of the internal market for electronic commerce in the union is not fully exploited for a number of reasons. consumers do not trust the security of the electronic market and many do not buy online, as consumer protection rules and levels of protection vary considerably. i believe that it is necessary to increase consumer confidence in the online market by informing them of their rights, secure payment methods and ensuring consumer protection in terms of security and protection of personal data. i support the proposal to create and apply a european contract trustmark to give greater credibility to online auctioneers. the disadvantages of electronic markets are not exploited by businesses either. initiatives should therefore be developed to encourage businesses to trade online by improving the mechanisms for online payments, for example by simplifying the vat information requirements, harmonising postal and banking charges, and resolving supplier-consumer conflicts more effectively.
in writing. - i support this proposal. the current eu directive on the investigation of accidents and incidents in civil aviation, adopted in 1994. however, the aviation market and the situation have changed and it is necessary to adopt a new eu regulation to reflect the current situation. in particular, a network of safety investigation authorities should be established, composed of national authorities and eu authorities (european aviation safety agency (easa)), responsible for improving the quality of investigations, classifying and analysing information, promoting cooperation between national authorities and contributing to the improvement of aviation safety. in addition, the rights of passengers and their relatives must be more clearly defined. the regulation aims to extend the requirement for a company to provide a passenger list as soon as possible, but no later than two hours after the accident, to cover not only companies operating flights to the eu but also those operating flights to europe. the aim is to introduce a mandatory requirement for airlines to offer passengers, at the time of booking, a contact person to be informed in the event of an accident. it is necessary to provide the possibility for the relatives of victims to receive, on an exceptional basis, full information on the progress of the safety investigation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because air traffic volumes are increasing year by year. the safety of flights and aviation security are the primary objectives. ensuring the safety of passengers, the protection of passengers, crew, ground staff, the public and property from aviation accidents, and the safety and security of aircraft are becoming increasingly important. in the event of aviation accidents, accidents must be independently investigated, with the aim of identifying safety gaps and allowing for measures to be taken to address them. it is necessary to reduce the disparities in research capacity between member states. the current framework for accident investigation is the 1994 eu directive, and the changing and increasing complexity of the aviation market has necessitated the introduction of new legislation on new entrants such as the european aviation safety agency (easa). the new regulation should provide a clear legal basis for the agency's participation in safety investigations. meanwhile, the creation of a network of national research offices should help to reduce the existing disparities in research capacity in the eu. it could also improve the quality of investigations and provide a legal basis for cooperation between national authorities. it is important and necessary to implement at european level proposals to improve flight safety or the investigation mechanism. the key issues are aviation safety, timely and appropriate assistance to victims of civil aviation accidents and their families. this would be a valuable support for the families of victims, who are often confused by the many organisations and procedures they face, and at the same time are coping with the pain of losing a loved one.
in writing. − natural gas consumption in europe has increased rapidly over the past decade. as domestic gas production declines and demand increases, dependence on gas imports increases. as far back as september 2009, when i spoke to the itre committee when the draft regulation was presented, i stressed that the creation of a secure and single energy market will not be possible as long as the eu has energy islands that are entirely dependent on a single external gas supplier and do not have access to european infrastructure. the issue of security of gas supply will remain relevant in the future, which is why i voted in favour of this report, which aims to improve the security of gas supply in individual member states and the union as a whole. it is particularly important to note that the document identifies which member states become so-called gas islands due to the lack of infrastructure links with other union member states, which prevents the creation of an effectively functioning internal gas market. i believe that this document is the first step towards real european energy integration, with a focus on cross-border connections, diversification of energy sources and routes and more effective implementation of energy efficiency initiatives.
in writing. − i have endorsed this report because diversified, uninterrupted gas supply and consumer protection are of particular importance today. the russian and ukrainian gas crises have affected millions of european citizens and the eu economy. energy security is one of the eu's top priorities. this requires a solidarity approach to eu policies and coordinated action. this requires regional and cross-border cooperation and flexibility in decision-making. finally, energy policy, which was previously based on national interests alone, is being taken to the european level. the energy community must be based on competitiveness, sustainability and, in particular, security of supply. this regulation will significantly reduce the eu's vulnerability to external supply disruptions, strengthen the global leadership of european gas companies and the eu's geopolitical position. meanwhile, lithuania needs to diversify its energy resources: the discussions on the construction of a new nuclear power plant must have a real basis and not remain at the level of mere deliberations, which of course also concerns the electricity bridges to the west and the construction of a liquefied gas terminal. lithuania will be safer the more alternative sources of supply it has. we must make every effort to ensure that in the future we are not just consumers of russian energy, but also business partners providing our own channels for the flow of energy from the east to the west.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i share the view that the eu must learn from recent history and be prepared in the event of a repeat of the gas supply crisis. as we have seen, national measures alone will not always be enough to deal with supply disruptions. eu countries must prepare and coordinate crisis management plans at regional and community level. unfortunately, some eu countries are still dependent on a single supplier of gas. the situation in case of a crisis would be particularly dangerous for those regions which are not connected to the pan-european gas network. these 'energy islands' are particularly in need of community financial support to link their gas networks to the eu's single system.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the loss of biodiversity is a serious threat. biodiversity, which is crucial for balanced development and poverty reduction, is essential for our planet, for human well-being and for human livelihoods and cultural integrity. but now, human activities are destroying biodiversity at an unprecedented rate. this trend can be reversed if local populations benefit from the conservation and balanced use of biodiversity. it should be noted that the loss of biodiversity is mainly driven by sectoral activities, as biodiversity aspects are not sufficiently taken into account in sectoral policies, including conservation of natural resources, agriculture, fisheries, regional policy and spatial planning, forestry, energy and transport, tourism, development and economic cooperation. it is urgent and necessary to halt the loss of biodiversity in europe. this objective is supported by a variety of national, eu and european policies. many of them are dedicated to specific measures to protect key species and sites, but in order to preserve biodiversity, it is essential that biodiversity needs are taken into account in the design and implementation of relevant sectoral policies. it is good to see that the aim is to halt the loss of biodiversity and the degradation of ecosystem functions in the eu by 2020, to restore them as far as possible and to increase eu support to prevent the loss of biodiversity in the world.
in writing. - i voted for this document. the number of natural disasters in the eu member states has increased in recent years, and the importance of prevention needs to be strengthened. since member states have the primary and primary responsibility for the safety of their citizens and the prevention of natural disasters, it is entirely justified to strengthen cooperation in the field of prevention, to improve the coordination of efforts, and to increase solidarity and mutual assistance. i support the proposal in the document that a financial framework at eu level should be established for the prevention of natural and man-made disasters, which would strengthen and concentrate existing instruments, including cohesion policy, regional policy and rural development policy. in the field of disaster prevention and management, it is essential to strengthen the research and development (r&d) capacities of the member states and to improve coordination and cooperation between member states in this field.
in writing. − i supported this report because the number of natural disasters in the eu has increased in recent years, with significant and long-term consequences for the environment and the economy of the affected areas. the cost of human life is often difficult to estimate. the communication highlights the need to review the rules of the solidarity fund and stresses the need to establish an appropriate disaster prevention financing system, providing sufficient financial resources for the prevention and response to natural disasters. this would strengthen and link instruments such as cohesion policy, rural development policy, regional policy, the solidarity fund, the seventh framework programme and the life+ programme. the european commission is invited to consider proposing a more coherent pooling of available resources to increase the effectiveness of eu prevention mechanisms. i am glad that the need for a european agricultural public insurance system is finally being recognised. the commission should submit a proposal for a european public insurance scheme to better address the risks and volatility of farmers' incomes in relation to natural and man-made disasters. this system should be more ambitious than the previous one in order to avoid the many different insurance systems in the eu, which lead to large disparities and differences in farmers' incomes. i believe that there is an urgent need to establish a minimum compensation scheme for natural and man-made disasters, which could be used by farmers in all member states.
in writing. - i agree with this report. reducing poverty in developing countries requires not only increasing employment but also creating new sustainable jobs. to achieve this, measures are needed to coordinate macroeconomic policies, focusing on the stability of real output, income and employment. smes, especially in the agricultural sector, need effective financial support, such as the provision of microcredit, microinsurance and public financial support. the commission and assisting countries should also review existing sources of funding for innovation and additional development and identify new sources that allow developing countries to diversify their sources of revenue to implement effective, specific and active spending programmes. in addition, special attention needs to be paid to tackling one of the biggest challenges in developing countries - child labour and access to primary education for all children. this could be achieved by implementing the right not to be subject to forced labour.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it calls for the european parliament to reduce poverty in developing countries, where hunger, malnutrition and exclusion from access to food and basic public services affect millions of people. another major problem in developing countries is that most of their populations do not have access to adequate social protection, and social protection systems are effective tools for reducing poverty and increasing social cohesion. i would also like to draw attention to the problem of child labour, as it is one of the biggest obstacles to universal access to primary education and to reducing poverty, which in turn impedes the healthy rearing and education of children. i therefore support parliament's call for support for education and for policies on child labour, i.e. for the strengthening of the global working group on education and child labour. it is also essential that the international community, all the states concerned and the eu commit themselves to making every effort to eliminate child labour as soon as possible. in addition, all development strategies should pay particular attention to the most vulnerable and socially excluded people, in particular women, children, the elderly and persons with disabilities.
in writing. − i supported the report because poverty reduction and job creation are the biggest challenges facing the world today and are a necessary condition for balanced development and economic growth, especially in developing countries. it is good to see calls for a review of privatisation policies, particularly in relation to the provision of public services such as waste collection and treatment, water and heat supply, residential maintenance and other services of general interest. the provision of public services must be strictly controlled by the municipalities or the government. this service must be equally accessible and of equal quality to all, regardless of the income or social group of the population. the example of vilnius, where public service providers are increasingly being privatised, is of great concern. the existing infrastructure of services and their providers is vulnerable to disruption. but what happens if a business stops providing a specific service or charges a very high price? the main objective of the interested parties is to demonstrate that the state or the municipality cannot provide services as efficiently as private companies can, and then the services are privatised. who can deny that a similar course has been followed in our own case? public services are too sensitive and important to be handed over to private hands. the priority must be to maintain and develop such services.
the two things that i think are most important about this document are that it's about getting the patient in the system and that all the information, all the reliable information, is going to be in one place. these numbers -- about a couple hundred thousand deaths a year from drug side effects -- are really scary. another issue is that the outcome of adverse reactions, i.e. the record of such cases, varies widely across countries. let's say that in my country, there are about 170 cases, and in other countries, there are at least a few times that many. reasons for not having patients directly involved in the provision of information. doctors often hesitate to report relevant information, perhaps fearing that they will be accused of misconduct. it is particularly welcome that patients who are concerned about their health will be able to report adverse drug reactions to the national authorities themselves. another thing is to encourage the institutions of the eu member states to respond more actively to the relevant reports. so far, the situation is that about 50% of countries are late in reporting side effects. it is great that the pharmacovigilance system will now include manufacturers, consumers and regulators. we need a common approach, based not on fear but on responsibility.
the new treaty of lisbon has given the european union a number of new and important privileges in the areas of external action, climate change, energy, tourism and other important areas. this obliges us to adopt the new measures necessary to implement the provisions of this treaty relating to the implementation of the budget and to revise the current financial perspective. more budgetary flexibility than the current multiannual perspective is needed if the european union is to be able to meet its commitments and respond more effectively to immediate and unforeseen events. looking ahead, it is necessary to review budgetary priorities, to identify adequate funding for priority areas and to provide sufficient budgetary resources to support long-term investments, which are a prerequisite for the economic recovery and growth of the european union.
member of the commission. − mr president, some small clarifications for mrs andreasen on this very issue. draft amending budget no 7 does not involve the member states’ guarantees; that is for the other part. what is guaranteed by the member states is 440 billion euros of bilateral loans. as for the structure of the budget, this is the copy of a balance-of-payments facility, and again this is a question which has been asked already. this is a typical arrangement for budgetary items which concern lending operations without a specific quantified guarantee fund. this is therefore a token entry. if the need arises for fresh money – so far activated in the balance-of-payments facility for hungary, latvia and romania up to an amount of 14.6 billion euros – then the commission will put forward a proposal on the appropriations needed by means of a transfer or an amending budget. that is the machinery, but it is nothing new – merely an extension of an existing balance-of-payments facility to the eurozone member countries – and i agree with reimer that this is a very flexible interpretation of the lisbon treaty.
member of the commission. − violence against women constitutes a violation of fundamental rights, and the commission reaffirms its commitment to ensuring that respect for fundamental rights is at the core of our activities. violence against women cannot be justified on the grounds of customs, tradition or religious considerations. the commission confirms its strong commitment to combating violence against women. this is reflected in the commission’s communication of april 2010 on the stockholm programme, which puts emphasis on the protection of victims of crime, including female victims of violence and genital mutilation. respecting the commitments of our action plan implementing the stockholm programme, the commission is currently working on its strategy to combat violence against women. in the first half of 2011, the commission intends to adopt a strategy to combat violence against women. prevention and awareness-raising activities will be a key point in the commission’s strategy. last march, the commission strengthened its commitment to promoting gender equality and fighting violence against women by presenting a women’s charter. as discussed in the plenary of the european parliament on 15 june, the charter proposes to put in place a coordinated and effective policy framework to tackle violence against women. we are determined to strengthen our action, with both legislative and soft measures, to eradicate violence against women, including female genital mutilation, and to use all means within the eu’s competence. vice-president reding announced today the strategy on equality between men and women. comprehensive action to combat violence against women is a key point in that strategy. the commission sees a strong link between the dossiers of violence against women and the victims’ rights package. the protection of female victims of violence will benefit considerably from all measures included in the victims’ rights package.the commission has welcomed the adoption of parliament resolutions on violence against women and on equality between women and men, including the parliament resolution on the elimination of violence against women. the commission took note of parliament’s proposal for a directive on combating and preventing violence against women. one of the current ongoing studies is a feasibility study to assess the possibilities, opportunities and needs for european-level legislation against gender-based violence and violence against children. the results of this study, and of other ongoing studies, will be presented at the high-level conference on violence against women, which is to be held by the commission, in cooperation with the belgian presidency, on 25 and 26 november 2010 in brussels.
thank you, mr president, commissioner, thank you for your detailed answer to my question, but there is still a lack of reliable and comparable data at both national and european union level to assess the real situation in the field of violence against women. has the commission drawn up an action plan for the collection and statistical production of these statistics in order to obtain comparable data on violence against women throughout the european union? because if we don't know the real situation, the situation in the member states is not going to change.
because i won't be able to ask my question, but the question that came before is also very interesting. the european commission's efforts to develop an appropriate framework of legislation on environmental and oil production issues in the european union are to be welcomed. and the question is very similar: what is the problem facing the mediterranean? this is my question concerning the baltic sea and also third countries outside the european union. as the european union will, i believe, manage its own internal objectives, how can we ensure that dialogue with third countries, and can the european commission help individual countries to interact with their neighbours?
mr president, the harmonious development of the union is a precondition for its sustainable economic growth and social welfare. the principle of territorial cohesion obliges the eu to come up with concrete measures to overcome existing handicaps and to exploit the potential of those regions. a european policy framework would be very useful and would bring long-term added value for disadvantaged regions, helping to shape and adapt unique development models which would make them more competitive and capable of coping with challenges.
the european union is committed to transforming its economy to be energy efficient and low greenhouse gas emissions. the inclusion of the aviation sector in the union greenhouse gas emission allowance scheme is an important step towards reducing the negative impact of aircraft on climate change. it is particularly important that this directive will also apply not only to airlines from the european union but also to airlines registered in third countries operating flights to union airports. this will avoid distortions of competition and improve environmental efficiency. the union's essential commitments such as the fight against climate change undoubtedly require coordinated and solidary action by the union. the agreement with third country air carriers should promote optimal interaction between the union system and the measures applied by those countries, ensure appropriate competition and reduce emissions. it would therefore be useful for the commission to take on a coordinating role and also to ensure that the measures used by third parties comply with the requirements of the directive.
in writing. – the european parliament has always talked about the need for a single voice for europe on the international stage. the uniquely european financial supervision package is one of the steps to this direction. with the package in place, europe of the 27 would finally be able to work more coherently and with more solidarity within the framework of economic governance decisions taken at the global level. more importantly, the only way that europe can reduce systemic transnational risks and subsequently prevent or mitigate the negative impact of future financial crises is to have an integrated network that funnels and coordinates the expertise and efforts of actors of all levels to establish and maintain a sound, stable and transparent financial system. such a system serves as a prime example of the accountability of europe to its citizens. i support this package because i believe in the future of europe - a europe where our financial industry no longer needs to suffer from its own excesses, and where our citizens no longer need to suffer from the devastating, unnecessary consequences of preventable crises.
in writing. − i support this proposal, which aims to improve the regulation currently in force on the production and use of biocidal products. biocides are part of our daily lives, used in a limited and responsible way, to help prevent the spread of diseases and to ensure high standards of health and hygiene. however, it is essential that legislation ensures a high level of protection for their production and use. this could be done by establishing uniform mandatory standards for consumers and producers of biocidal products. in order to protect the consumer, it is necessary to ensure a robust system of labelling of substances and articles which corresponds to the level of risk, whether biocidal products are manufactured within or outside the european union. it is also necessary to clarify the information to be provided on the label, specifying the exact location of the information, in order to provide effective and appropriate information.
in writing. − the regulation on the placing of biocidal products on the market and their use, which was voted on today, allows us to take another step towards the introduction of a centralised system of registration of biocidal products. the system of registration of chemicals introduced by reach shows that the abandonment of individual national registration systems is indeed justified. unfortunately, we often find ourselves in a situation where a product cannot reach the market of a member state simply because of the complex and unreasonably expensive registration procedures in that state. on the other hand, when facilitating the entry of biocidal products onto the market, we must be very vigilant to ensure that a high level of protection is maintained in view of the particular health risks posed by these products.
in writing. −the recent financial and economic crisis has raised many questions that we will have to answer as soon as possible and has shown that, although the eu has a number of instruments for economic policy coordination, they have not been fully exploited and that the current governance system has significant gaps. the establishment of the esrb is an important innovation, since no one has yet carried out a european-level macroeconomic analysis, the main purpose of which is to assess systemic risk. close cooperation between the esrb and the relevant information bodies (national supervisors and european authorities responsible for specific sectors) is the basis for a coherent supervisory framework at the macro- and micro-economic level.
in writing. − the financial crisis has shown that the surveillance of micro-enterprises by national authorities is not sufficient to ensure that systemic risks are identified and quickly avoided. we need an effective european supervisory framework to monitor, assess and prevent potential risks to financial stability. the communication clearly emphasises the importance of preserving the integrity of the european single market. but it is also essential to protect the internal market from products from countries which do not cherish values such as democracy, the environment and social guarantees, which makes goods and services from those countries cheaper and our european companies unable to compete under such conditions. i agree with the remarks made this month by prime minister j.m. barroso: 'we have people. we have businesses. both need an open and modern single market. the internal market is europe's greatest asset, but we are not exploiting its potential. only 8% of europe's 20 million smes are engaged in cross-border trade. and they invest even less across borders. the european systemic risk board would be a key pillar of the eu supervisory architecture and thus contribute to a more coherent functioning of the internal market. the european single market was one of the main reasons, but not least the accession of lithuania and other fellow member states to the union, which had upheld these values. any visible division and misunderstanding would undermine decades of efforts to remove barriers and barriers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report by the european parliament on the establishment of a european insurance and occupational pensions authority. that authority should aim to improve the functioning of the internal market, in particular by ensuring a high, effective and consistent level of regulation and supervision, taking into account the diverse interests of all member states, protecting insurers and other beneficiaries, ensuring the integrity, efficiency and smooth functioning of financial markets, safeguarding the stability of the financial system and strengthening the coordination of international supervision for the benefit of the whole economy, including financial institutions and other stakeholders, consumers and workers. in this document, the european parliament calls on the commission to examine how progress can be made towards a more integrated insurance and occupational pension supervision structure, while seeking to create a single market for financial services. parliament also called for the establishment of international institutions for supervision at eu level in the medium term and for the establishment of a european crisis management mechanism to deal with crises that may arise in the wake of the financial and economic crisis.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, the lack of adequate financial regulation in europe and the lack of development of market surveillance mechanisms were evident during the financial crisis. i probably don't need to remind you that lithuania is one of the countries that was hit hardest by the global financial crisis. for some time, lithuania's growth was almost entirely based on borrowed funds, driven entirely by cheap credit, mostly from foreign lenders seeking quick profits. when the business failed to get back on its feet, the crisis began. it is clear that there is no point in continuing to apply mechanisms whose inefficiency was particularly evident during the crisis. what is needed now is a sound and ambitious policy to create a more efficient, integrated and sustainable european supervisory system. i am pleased to see the amendments to the commission proposal, which was largely drawn up from a banking perspective, despite the position of the countries seeking loans. it is important to include small and medium-sized enterprises, as their businesses rely more on bank financing than on large enterprises. i hope we will succeed in establishing a credible european institution with clear powers and a crisis management mechanism that will ensure that it is not the european taxpayers who bear the brunt of any short-term change in the financial system.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. infringements of intellectual property rights pose a serious threat to our economies and societies, as innovation and creativity have a high added value for the european economy. the phenomenon of infringements of intellectual property rights online has reached a worrying level, particularly in the creative content industries, and the current legal framework is not capable of effectively ensuring the protection of rightholders online while guaranteeing a balance of all interests, including those of consumers. i welcome the proposal to set up a monitoring centre as a means of collecting and exchanging data and information on all forms of intellectual property infringement, to help understand the mindset of real intellectual property infringements on the internet and to take the necessary measures at eu level to combat counterfeiting and other intellectual property infringements on the internet.
in writing. the european council conclusions of 16 september stressed the eu's commitment to enhancing cooperation with africa and to reducing violations of international human rights and humanitarian law. particular attention should be paid to human rights violations in the democratic republic of the congo. as congolese military personnel are responsible for the deaths of many civilians, their acts of violence and sexual violence against women and children are used as a tool to implement fear in society, and rape is used as a weapon of war. the resolution on the protection of human rights and justice in the democratic republic of congo therefore calls for all possible coordinated action to be taken as a matter of urgency to prevent these heinous crimes. it is important to promote peace and stability in the region and to cooperate closely and regularly with the media and the public at national level in order to reduce the level of crime and to help clarify subsequent crimes. i would like to stress that we must fight impunity and ensure the protection of the civilian population, especially women and children, from violations of international human rights and humanitarian law, including all forms of sexual and gender-based violence. gender equality needs to be mainstreamed at all levels in the eu's cooperation with partner countries.
president of the council. - thank you, mr president, the 18-month programme of the council, drawn up by the spanish, belgian and hungarian presidencies, provides that the fight against poverty and social exclusion will be a major objective, with emphasis on the unemployed, children affected by poverty, poor workers and single-parent families. the fight against poverty is one of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy adopted on 17 june 2010 by the european council, which also endorsed the objective of promoting social inclusion, in particular through poverty reduction, by removing at least 20 million people from the risk of poverty or exclusion by 2020. another objective mentioned by the european council is to raise the employment rate for women and men aged 20 to 64 to 75% and to improve education levels, in particular by reducing the rate of school drop-out. during the belgian presidency, four thematic priorities will be highlighted in the fight against poverty: minimum income and social protection, housing and the situation of homeless people, the poverty of children within their families and, finally, the participation of people living in poverty and all those involved in the fight against poverty, precariousness and social exclusion. the presidency will endeavour to deepen the debate on the minimum income at european level at the round table on poverty and social exclusion to be held on 18 and 19 october, with the ultimate aim of ensuring that each member state adopts a minimum income guaranteeing a sufficient standard of living. in these discussions, the presidency will also seek to promote at european level the importance of good governance principles that ensure the participation of people living in poverty. secondly, in order to guarantee the fundamental right to housing for all, the belgian presidency will attach particular importance to the issue of housing accessibility at a conference to be held on 9 and 10 december. e presidency will also highlight the crucial role of education in combating child poverty and in combating its intergenerational transmission, which was already the subject of a conference held on 2 and 3 september. finally, the belgian presidency will close the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion on 16 and 17 december, drawing lessons for the future.
i thank you, mr president, thank you, mr minister, for your detailed answer, and i am in fact perfectly aware that the member states themselves must first of all combat poverty and social exclusion, and i would like to wish the belgian presidency the best of luck in getting the member states to decide as soon as possible on mandatory minimum social standards, on mandatory minimum incomes. however, i would also like to ask you whether you think that the open method of coordination currently in place is sufficient to combat poverty and social exclusion.
in writing. currently, the death penalty is used in 43 countries worldwide. most of them are carried out in china, iran and iraq. china alone has 5,000 death sentences, or 88 percent of all executions in the world. there are also eu countries where the majority of citizens support the death penalty. there are more countries like that in the world. the main argument is that such punishment discourages potential offenders and reduces crime. but the statistics show otherwise. i support this resolution because i believe that instruments of execution should only be in museums. the european union is also calling on the belarusian authorities to take all necessary steps to ensure that the death penalty is abolished in the country. the execution there is still a state secret. relatives of the executed do not know whether the condemned is alive or dead, and the bodies of executed prisoners are not given to parents or children.
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the absence of any new proposals from the commission in the field of oil exploration and extraction - an absence, i would say right away, which is entirely legitimate as the commission is continuing its consultations with industry and the various regulatory authorities concerned - i can only reiterate our deep concern at the gulf of mexico disaster and its too many victims, both human and natural. this disaster shows that no precaution is too great in this sector of activity and that everything must be done to prevent a repetition of a similar accident. we can only hope that, just as the exxon valdez and erika accidents in 1989 and 1999 triggered a strengthening of the legal framework in europe and the united states, so too will the framework for offshore oil exploration and exploitation this time. the aim is not, of course, to develop a framework which would be so costly to implement that it would render these activities unprofitable, but to enable them to be carried on safely, particularly in a phase when resources on land are declining. while we await legislative proposals, this matter has obviously not disappeared from our concerns and, although we were pleased, as others were, that the macondo well was closed in mid-july and finally capped on 19 september, this is clearly only a step, given the scale of the rehabilitation work to be carried out. the presidency therefore wished, at the informal meeting of the energy ministers on 6 and 7 september, that commissioner oettinger should come and give his initial assessments. we think there are two things to be learned from what he said on that occasion. firstly, the security measures already taken within the european union are at the highest level in the world. secondly, given the situation of oil activities, at the crossroads of several regulatory areas, the proposals the commission is considering will have to concern these various areas: firstly - since it is better to prevent than to cure - the improvement of safety standards applicable to all european seas, but also the strengthening of the liability regime, the strengthening of regulatory supervision and the intensification of international cooperation, for example with our opec partners, as we already did last june. a first communication from the commission is expected by mid-october and, because of the many areas it is expected to cover - as i have just said - its processing may involve several council formations and, no doubt, several committees of this parliament. the complexity of this matter should not, however, be an excuse for postponing our reply, and we intend to start its examination as soon as we receive this communication in order to bring it to the council as soon as possible. as regards more specifically environmental protection, the european union now has a fairly advanced legislative framework. the precautionary principle and the polluter pays principle are fundamental principles of european environmental policy and are included in the treaty. the oil spill caused by this platform in the gulf of mexico may also provide an opportunity for the commission and the member states to reassess certain aspects of existing environmental legislation. in this context, it should be recalled, for example, that the seveso ii directive is currently under review and that we expect a proposal from the commission before the end of the year. in addition, it should be noted that the commission is examining the european union's disaster response capacity with a view, inter alia, to improving it. in this context, we look forward to this communication by the end of november. finally, i would like to confirm that the presidency will do everything in its power to advance the proposals which the commission will no doubt present to us.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we agree on the scale of the disaster in the gulf of mexico. the damage has been done, and it is a damage which will have a lasting impact on the environment, nature, culture, tourism and fisheries, and which can only be remedied with limited financial resources. nevertheless, we can be grateful that bp is a viable company that can be used, that is, that is likely to be able to perform within the limits of what is comparable to money. we are in the process of finalising a communication these days. the commission will formally discuss and adopt the matter, including its communication, no later than two weeks from now. i am here today to hear from you, under the chairmanship of mr leinen and his committee, and with the support of mr reul, what you expect. i assure you that we will incorporate parliament's expectations and technical comments into the communication which will be delivered in two weeks at the latest. we have received an analysis from bp a few days ago which at least contains sufficient self-criticism and which has also proposed and announced voluntary steps and corrections for industry. we are watching what is happening in washington, which is currently delayed by the election campaign, but we realize that the government in washington will draw from this terrible incident far-reaching consequences for american law and policy. our aim is to formulate the highest safety standards in the world for the waters within our reach: for the north sea, for the north atlantic, for the baltic sea, for the black sea, for the mediterranean and for the atlantic off the coast of west africa. we have our own authority in the waters in which we operate, but we also work to ensure that our standards are broadcast beyond the territorial waters. mr leinen has indirectly referred to libya. it is also about drilling that has an impact on our coasts and oceans, but not directly in our oceans. it's about oil and it's about gas. it is generally about offshore exploration and production of hydrocarbons and the best possible technical safety. we find that the uk uk and norway probably have the most experience and also high acceptable standards, which is why cooperation with the government in london and the norwegian government is particularly important to us. we want to examine first of all the security arrangements for future licences, that is to say the question of what is possible with new licences at higher, higher standards. secondly, there is the question of possible retrofitting of existing platforms, some of which are 20 years old or older and where the standard of that time is not sufficient for what is possible today and what is politically expected of us. then there is the question of the constant checks. we must make the control network more dense, we must increase the frequency and quality of controls accordingly. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the progress of the work of the committee on transport and tourism, and to provide information on the progress of the work of the committee on transport and tourism. then i'm interested in the question: how do we export our security standards to the world? so if bp now intends to take appropriate action and build platforms off the coast of libya, then we propose to get a self-commitment from the european energy industry, namely bp, shell, total, and that they commit themselves to voluntarily accept and apply the same strict standard that they have to apply in the territory of the european union in these neighbouring regions. that is to say, a libyan offshore oil platform built and operated by bp, or perhaps a platform off the coast of west africa operated by a european energy company, should and must have the same standard as is practiced by us legally in the north sea. all in all, please give us two weeks. we're on the finish line for our announcement. we will take account of the expectations that your members will be communicating to us today and then, certainly in the first half of 2011, we will also come forward with legislative proposals that are foreseen after our communication.
on behalf of the s&d group the environmental disaster in the gulf of mexico has highlighted the lack of safety and reliability of oil extraction operations. this tragic disaster, which has claimed human lives and caused immeasurable damage to the environment, should also be a valuable lesson for us europeans. i welcome the commission's initiative to carry out a safety audit of offshore oil platforms operating in the european union. however, to ensure this fully, wider measures are needed. the commission should in particular assess the capacity of the european union to respond rapidly and effectively to disasters and develop a european action plan. the current regulation of both safety and liability for damage caused is clearly inadequate in terms of content and application. the european union is currently undertaking major infrastructure projects whose safety may not be fully and properly assessed. this includes the controversial nord stream pipeline and other oil and gas infrastructure that is essential for europe's energy security, but which must meet the highest environmental standards. the question of liability must therefore be clearly settled: the polluter must be compensated for the damage caused. it is also necessary to adopt compulsory insurance schemes covering the whole of the territory of the european union. in order to avoid similar disasters, special attention should be paid to preventive measures. i therefore believe that the commission should examine the possibility of developing an effective monitoring system, strengthening inspection methods and tightening the minimum mandatory safety rules of the european union. i agree with the suggestions made by my colleagues that the commission should also produce annual reports, which would allow us to assess the real situation and take timely action when the need arises. in conclusion, i would like to thank the commission, the member of the commission, for the fact that in such a short time we will certainly have a communication and will be able to start looking more specifically at what europe really needs.
first of all, i would like to thank the colleagues who contributed to the drafting of this resolution, and i would also like to thank the commissioner, who has given so much hope and joy in his speech today, for the action that the commission intends to take. and indeed, those fears that the resolution was rushed, perhaps not sufficiently explored... i do, however, believe that this is the voice of the european parliament and a message to society, a message to the council, a message to the commission. it has been a long time since the accident and i think it is very important that the european parliament is at least now having a voice. i think that, as others have said here, it is indeed very important to review the current legislation in force in the european union and legislation relating to safety and quality standards. and it's not really about stopping oil production altogether, but it's just about reviewing the situation and what further action should be taken to avoid a repeat of the kind of accident and disaster that happened in the gulf of mexico. i personally welcome the provisions in this resolution on third party liability. the european commission and the european union in general should strengthen the dialogue with third countries on certain energy infrastructure projects. it is not necessarily the baltic sea and the oil rigs or the nord stream pipeline, but it is the black sea and the mediterranean and the conflict situation with north africa. i think it is very important that third countries are included in this resolution.
biodiversity is a complex and complex issue, and it is clear that it is of importance both in the european union and globally. but it raises another question: how do we balance environmental protection and economic growth? it is perhaps the most pervasive and most headache-inducing question of all. it is well known that biodiversity loss is most closely linked to human activities, often overlooked. it is always possible to say that environmental requirements are a hindrance to competitiveness, because the standards of the european union are high and those of other countries are not, and there are certain problems and it is obviously difficult to find a balance. but there could be some preventive tools. i am talking about the activities that are carried out in the european union and the analyses that are used to support these activities. it is important that the environmental impact assessment of that analysis is of high quality and independent. of course, realistically speaking, it will be difficult to reach an agreement in nagoya, but i wish the european union and the commissioner every success.
the eu-china summit is taking place in brussels today. in addition to topics such as climate change and trade, the situation of human rights defenders in china, the death penalty and the laogai labour camps are discussed. these are certainly very important topics, but i would like to remind you of another painful issue in china - tibet. it is regrettable that the hoped-for dialogue between the representatives of the dalai lama and the authorities of the prc is taking place, but it is taking place very slowly. the last round of the competition was held in november last year. the meetings are irregular and there is an atmosphere of mistrust. despite the fact that the dalai lama has long since renounced not only tibet's independence but its sovereignty. i want to once again urge the chinese leadership to resolve the tibetan issue through dialogue, not force, not ignoring the dalai lama. the european union would certainly welcome such a dialogue and is ready to contribute, mediate and assist in any way possible.
we all know that the european union's cohesion policy aims to reduce the development gap between the countries and regions of the european union. however, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that this broad programme of regional policy must cover all the regions of europe, and i agree with the view that this policy should not be nationalised. it is necessary to ensure stable and sustainable economic growth and job creation. a strong and well-funded european union regional policy is the foundation for social, economic and territorial cohesion. as always (and as before), greater attention must also be paid to the less developed regions. it is good that the next programming period is planned to allocate financial resources to investments needed to implement projects in cities as well as in suburbs, as cities have a positive impact on the economy of the surrounding rural areas, while not reducing funding for the countryside. in this context, the main aspects of the discussion should be: the scope of the european union's cohesion policy, the reasonableness of the objectives, the link with the 2020 strategy, the implementation of the european union's cohesion policy and the possibility of simplifying procedures.
in writing. in the current economic and social crisis, the european social fund (esf) is one of the european union's main funding instruments to combat high unemployment, poverty and social exclusion. the fund also plays a major role in the areas of education of workers, lifelong vocational training, improvement of employment opportunities and integration of workers into the labour market. i agree that in order to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, in particular in the fields of employment and social affairs, it is necessary to strengthen the european social fund and to increase its effectiveness by improving the procedures for its financing. the current system of financing the fund is too complex and it is therefore essential that the commission simplifies and makes more flexible the procedures for financing the structural funds, so that member states can use the european social fund more effectively and efficiently to create new and better jobs. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial contribution to the european agricultural guidance and guarantee fund (eaggf) is based on the principle of equal treatment of farmers and consumers. i would also urge the commission to make the european social fund even more effective and targeted in future and to take all possible measures to ensure that eu funds reach directly the people in poverty who need them most. only a more effective and stronger fund could contribute to reducing unemployment and poverty in europe in the future.
mr president, i propose inserting a little qualification about drilling operations in order to avoid any misinterpretations in cases where third countries are also involved. concerning drilling operations, i would like to insert ‘by eu and third countries’. please support this.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation by the european parliament's committee on employment and social affairs, as the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and the change in the legal bases obliges the european union to re-examine the rules applicable to third-country nationals. this parliament recommendation concerns a draft regulation which aims to ensure that third-country nationals who are legally resident in the eu and who find themselves in a crossborder situation are subject to the same rules as those for the coordination of social security systems. this parliament recommendation proposes to endorse the council regulation without further delay, as the new regulation would simplify the administration of procedures and ensure equal treatment of third-country nationals legally residing in the eu in the field of social protection. in addition, as regards the fight against illegal immigration in europe, this regulation also clarifies the rights of member states with regard to their powers to decide on the lawful presence of third-country nationals on their territory.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, in addition to spain and denmark, which will be discussed during this plenary session, lithuania is aware of the potential good that the european globalisation adjustment fund can do. in total, lithuania received 2.9 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund for workers in the hard-hit construction and home-tool manufacturing sectors. however, the fund has yet to prove its worth. the european globalisation adjustment fund, which was set up as an emergency response force, is now slow and overwhelmed by bureaucracy. main disadvantage fund mobilization is required. on average, it takes 294 days to approve an application. as the financial times reported this week, more than 37 000 workers across europe are still waiting for the fund's support. of the total amount available to the european globalisation adjustment fund (eur 2 billion), only eur 140 million has been disbursed to date. the distribution of the fund's money is also uneven. only 6% of payments are granted to projects in countries with a gross domestic product below the eu average. the european globalisation adjustment fund needs to be more flexible if it is not to be mired in uncertainty. many member states, including lithuania, are also eligible for other funds that require less co-financing and printing.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur rightly expresses his serious concern about the lack of transparency in the procurement of the european police college. it is hoped that the investigation by the european anti-fraud office will be thorough and honest and will help to bring more clarity to this issue. however, this issue is linked to a much larger problem the frequent lack of integrity and professionalism within police and security bodies across europe. amnesty international and human rights watch have reported a record number of cases across europe of police overstepping their authority and using illegal investigative techniques. in most cases, the authorities failed to investigate and punish the perpetrators in line with international standards, thus increasing the level of impunity. often, victims are made easy targets because of their minority status, whether it be their origin or their political views. a strong police force needs a strong and honest rule of law and legal independence. the european police college has noble objectives to promote common standards of european public order, cross-border cooperation in the fight against crime, and the maintenance of law and order. whether it is in this forum or in another, the most important thing is that these objectives are achieved.
in writing. − this parliament resolution is of particular importance for the abolition of the visa regime for bosnia and herzegovina and albania. the visa-free regime gives effect to one of the fundamental rights of europe - freedom of movement within all member states. it is essential to make every effort to implement visa-free travel for citizens of bosnia and herzegovina and albania as soon as possible. in the last few months, bosnia and herzegovina and albania have made significant progress and important dialogues have been held with albania and bosnia and herzegovina. by granting visa-free travel to these countries, young people could travel, study and train abroad. it would also reduce the risk of greater ethnic and political instability, strengthen political and economic cooperation in the region and increase public support for the eu and the prospect of european integration.
in writing. − the democratic republic of congo must take immediate action to fulfil its obligations in the field of human rights violations. today, most armed movements use rape and violence as a means to achieve military and economic goals. such violence often results in the loss of women's status in society, their ability to care for their children, and even their lives. the civilian population continues to suffer and live in abject poverty. the democratic republic of the congo shall take all feasible measures to prevent any further attacks against civilians and to ensure that accountability for violations of human rights and international humanitarian law is strengthened. at the same time, it is important to promote peace and stability in the region through existing regional instruments and to make greater efforts to develop the economies of the regions. it is essential that the eu council's action plan on gender equality in development cooperation ensures that gender mainstreaming is integrated into all policies.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i am deeply concerned by the events in the congo, where hundreds if not thousands of women and children have been raped in recent months. i'm stunned as a politician, but even more stunned as a father and a human being. this is terrible. the perpetrators must be identified, prosecuted and punished in accordance with international law. we, the international community, have stood up. but we also camped much closer to home, on our own turf. we are always quick to condemn human rights abuses outside the eu and to demand urgent action. however, when it comes to human rights violations within the eu, the reaction is usually muted. the eu will face a major crisis of confidence if it does not bridge the gap between its honourable condemnation of crimes committed outside the eu and the action it takes in its human rights field. it shouldn't be like this. the adoption of the treaty of lisbon has opened up new opportunities for strengthening human rights, in particular the eu charter of fundamental rights, which is now binding not only on the eu institutions but also on the member states. it is not beyond our power to remedy this human rights vacuum within the union, but we must act now.
in writing. − the death penalty is one of the oldest sanctions for very serious crimes, and it has not yet been abolished in some countries. the death penalty is the most cruel, inhuman and degrading punishment, which violates the right to life enshrined in the universal declaration of human rights. the european parliament calls on the member states to take immediate action to end the practice of the death penalty, which is still practised in 43 countries worldwide. the death penalty is a particular concern for minors and persons with mental or intellectual disabilities. the application of these penalties to the most vulnerable persons should be lifted as soon as possible. it is essential that the authorities of the countries commit themselves to monitoring the handling of death penalty issues in order to bring relevant cases to the attention of the national authorities and to consider the possibility of implementing initiatives on abolition of the death penalty.
in writing. - i support this resolution. in view of the current situation, with a 30% decline in biodiversity over the last 40 years, and with future projections of a tenfold increase in the rate of biodiversity loss by 2050, it is necessary to take decisive action now to conserve biodiversity and promote its sustainable use. the loss of biodiversity is a threat to food security, energy depletion and climate change. to avoid the negative impact of these processes, cooperation between the commission and the member states is necessary in developing a sustainable eu biodiversity strategy, which is aligned with the objectives of combating poverty, sustainable waste management and climate change mitigation. the implementation of the actions and strategies envisaged will inevitably require sufficient funding. public support is likely to be insufficient, and it is therefore necessary to seek to attract private investment and to seek new sources of financing. in addition, the plans drawn up must be taken into account when the new multiannual financial framework is adopted and the necessary funding must be ensured.
in writing. - i supported this resolution. cohesion policy is a crucial part of the eu's policy to reduce disparities in the level of development of europe's regions and to ensure economic, social and territorial cohesion. an effective regional policy has a high added value for the eu as a whole and for its economic growth. the european parliament has repeatedly expressed its view that cohesion policy is currently developing in the context of global challenges with different impacts on the eu regions and that there is a need to substantially improve overall coordination of cohesion policy at eu level. indeed, the complexity and rigidity of the requirements and rules applicable to cohesion policy is one of the main obstacles to the exploitation of the potential of this instrument. in order to ensure that cohesion policy achieves its objectives, it must be sufficiently flexible to be adapted to the specificities of individual regions in order to enable them to overcome specific economic and social difficulties.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the european union must now foresee how the eu's regional and cohesion policy will be financed and coordinated after 2013. i agree with the european parliament's position that we must plan and allocate eu funds for the structural funds now to ensure that sufficient funds are allocated in the new long-term financial period to ensure the sustainable development of all eu regions. europe is a continent of solidarity and therefore essential to the achievement of the cohesion policy objective of reducing disparities in the level of development of europe's regions and ensuring economic, social and territorial cohesion. i agree with parliament's position that cohesion policy should be more results-oriented and that it should aim at greater efficiency and effectiveness, because only then will it be more convenient and more useful for consumers. this requires a fundamental improvement in administrative procedures, increased financial control, a harmonisation of national and regional procedures, and a greater flexibility and simplification of procedures. the implementation of cohesion and regional policy and the independence and coverage of all european regions are essential for the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives.
in writing. - i support this resolution. a policy for sustainable growth and jobs in europe is essential. the implementation of this policy should be supported by reforms of education, vocational training and retraining programmes to adapt them to the needs of the labour market and by supporting the activities of small and medium-sized enterprises. it is essential that the measures envisaged are implemented in a coordinated and complementary manner, so as to achieve the most effective results. the european social fund, which operates at european union level, plays an important role in the fields of employment, improving working conditions and integrating workers into the labour market. however, support from the structural funds alone is not enough. in order to ensure an efficient and effective system of financing social programmes, it is necessary to combine assistance from the structural funds with other existing programmes, such as the european microfinance facility progress, which provides micro-credit for small businesses and support for start-ups, and other instruments.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution tabled by the committee on employment and social affairs of the european parliament, as it is necessary to strengthen the european social fund (hereinafter referred to as the esf), to increase its effectiveness, especially in times of economic and social crisis, as this fund is one of the main instruments of european union funding for the fight against the kurdish people and social exclusion. improving the procedures for esf funding is also essential, as it would allow member states to use esf funds more easily and effectively to invest in skills, employment, training and retraining of workers in order to create more and better jobs. i would also like to stress the importance of the commission's targeted allocation of eu funds to the european social fund, as this is the only way in which this instrument can directly help people to get into employment, find better jobs, overcome poverty, avoid social exclusion and live a full life. moreover, only a more effective and stronger esf would enable the implementation of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy in the fields of employment and social affairs and contribute to the reduction of unemployment and poverty in europe.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgetary control. − i would like to thank all my fellow rapporteurs whose professionalism has enabled us to reach a political agreement between the institutions of the european union in a short time and to lay a solid foundation for the creation of the european external action service. i am confident that the office will become more effective and will contribute to the high-level shaping of european foreign and security policy and to the strengthening of the european union's role on the world stage. the office shall operate in accordance with the principles of sound and efficient financial management. this year we have allocated an additional €9.5 million to the service, but the real costs will be assessed after the first year of operation, when the european parliament will be provided with a report on all expenditure related to the service's activities. the european parliament also has a responsibility in the functioning of the office to ensure that the office's resources are used efficiently and that the money of the european union's taxpayers creates real added value for the community's policies and its people.
in writing. as we mark world day against poverty and the european year against poverty, unfortunately there are already more than 85 million people living below the poverty line in the european union. although unemployment is the main cause of poverty, many europeans, even those who have a job, struggle with poverty every day and lack the opportunity to enjoy a decent life. it is not normal for people to earn more than they need to support their families. i would like to remind you that economic growth has not in itself reduced poverty and social exclusion, that hardship only increases poverty and that minimum incomes allow the most vulnerable to be protected. the minimum income guarantee is an important and effective means of overcoming poverty, supporting social integration and access to the labour market and enabling people to live in decent conditions. i would like to point out that even in times of crisis, minimum incomes should be seen not as a cost driver but as a key tool in the fight against the crisis, as early investment in poverty alleviation is the most beneficial in reducing long-term public expenditure. in order to fulfil the commitment of the europe 2020 strategy to end the threat of poverty or exclusion for at least 20 million people in the european union, the european commission must therefore take concrete action and propose a european law that ensures a europe-wide minimum income in the fight against poverty.
in writing. − i support this proposal for a regulation which aims to amend the existing directive to make compulsory the collection of data by type of cargo for the compilation of maritime transport statistics. currently, this data is collected on a voluntary basis in 18 member states. in addition, data by type of cargo are already compulsory for the statistics on road, rail and inland waterway transport. the data collected will allow for comparison of transport by type, allow for the integration of different modes of transport in a single transport system and modernise the logistics system for freight transport. it is expected that the data collection will not impose an additional burden on respondents, as member states would collect data using existing national data sources (e.g. customs records).
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, this issue of systematic statistical data collection is of particular importance to us. in lithuania, maritime transport accounts for only a small percentage of total freight transport, so much more can be achieved in this area. in addition, our coastal tourism sector also has a high growth potential. by modernising freight transport logistics and promoting transport diversity, i.e. combining different modes of transport in a single transport system, we have the opportunity to increase the well-being of the baltic. this is crucial to maintain the competitiveness of european ports such as the lithuanian port of klaipeda in the future. closer cooperation between the baltic states will bring the baltic states closer together and make our region's markets more harmonious and accessible to the whole of the european union. the baltic states are currently largely isolated from the european transport network. the traffic between the baltic states is expected to double by 2020 and the lack of adequate infrastructure and accessibility needs to be addressed. above all, we must bear in mind that data collection does not impose an additional burden on member states. we have nothing to lose.
in writing. − i am pleased that the european parliament has initiated this important report on women's precarious work. women are the most likely to be in precarious employment, often without even the minimum social standards required for workers. women tend to work in low-paid jobs where they can combine work with family life, which forces them to give up social guarantees and to accept unfavourable working conditions. social protection is a key element in the balance between labour market flexibility and employment guarantees and it is therefore essential to encourage member states and social partners to help harmonise the rules on working conditions in legislation and contracts in order to address these problems. member states must reduce the double burden of women's work, which is one of the reasons why women are predominantly in unsecured work. it is essential to ensure equal access for all workers to social services and benefits, including maternity leave, healthcare, old-age pension, and to ensure the right to education and training, irrespective of their conditions of employment.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs. - i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on having found a balanced position. i believe that the proposal for the 2011 budget, which we will be voting on tomorrow, strikes the right balance between budgetary savings and economic stimulus and is in line with the priorities of the european parliament as expressed on several occasions. i understand the desire of member states to cut spending in an effort to reduce their budget deficits as much as possible, but many of the cuts proposed by the council are unjustified. we must not forget that the budget of the european union has other objectives. the european union budget is investing in our future. how we handle this crisis will depend on how well we allocate and use it. energy, innovation, research, education, mobility are the foundation of our economic growth, the creation of new jobs. the continuity of effective programmes already in place must therefore be ensured, as well as the adequate funding of new policies introduced by the lisbon treaty. i call on my colleague to approve the draft budget.
member of the commission. − briefly on the question about the mdg summit, i think the main result of this summit is the clear agreement between the developed and developing countries to succeed in achieving the mdgs by 2015, and in particular mdg 1 to cut global poverty by half and also to strengthen food security issues. it is very clear that we need to take many measures now to achieve the mdgs. regarding mr papanikolaou’s question, basically we have two facilities. reflex mostly addressed countries in the crisis. we have also disbursed a food facility of eur 1 billion to support smallholder farmers and this definitely produced many results in responding to the food crisis. in many countries, the food supply situation has improved. the problem is that this food security is a one-off measure, so we are helping at the time of crisis. this leads us to the question i was asked by mr tarabella. food security is definitely one of the areas i will propose in the green paper as a particular focus area for the european union, particularly since we have had a very positive experience with the food facility. we know what should be done and we should really try to achieve productive growth based also on the agricultural structures still prevailing in africa.
vice-president of the commission. − as the honourable member pointed out, regulation (ec) no 1371/2007 on rail passenger rights, regulation (ec) no 261/2004 on air passenger rights – and let me also add regulation (ec) no 1107/2006 on the rights of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility when travelling by air – recognise certain minimum, common rights for citizens when they travel by rail or by air. the correct application of these regulations must be ensured by the national enforcement bodies designated in the member states. these bodies in particular have to take all reasonable measures to ensure that the rights of passengers are fully respected. the commission’s task is to ensure that eu law is correctly implemented and enforced by the member states by constantly monitoring their activity. national enforcement bodies have no legal obligation to report under the sole terms of the regulations. they answer the commission’s request in line with the general principle of loyal cooperation between the member states and the eu institutions enshrined in the treaty. concerning the volcanic ash crisis, the commission has reacted quickly and has done its utmost to ensure that, in accordance with the conclusions of the extraordinary council held on 4 may 2010, the rules on air passenger rights are applied and enforced in a uniform and harmonised way everywhere in the eu. in order to reach this aim, the commission has prepared and agreed informal interpretative guidelines with national authorities and has kept close contacts with them and all stakeholders.
the situation with the volcano showed that some european union countries, especially the new ones, have no alternative. they have no rail connections with western europe, including your own country, commissioner, and my country. did this situation speed up work on the rail baltica project?
vice-president of the commission. − first of all buses. we have strict regulations regulating the technical standards concerning buses, and especially school buses. i have not heard of any particular concerns about problems with school buses as such. we will of course follow the situation, and we propose – coming to the last question – to follow strictly the rules that all children must be properly accommodated and that seat belts should be used. i have not, however, received any signals concerning this problem of road safety that school buses is an issue that is badly handled. 30 000 people have died and of course we are all unhappy about this. every casualty is a tragedy, but i definitely do not agree that this road safety action plan has been a failure. there has been a 40% reduction in casualties in europe. in my own country, the reduction was fourfold over the last 15 years. we followed the same route. for those of you interested in our plans, just before the summer break we adopted policy guidelines which are the next action plan for road safety and we have the same aim – to reduce casualties by half. a lot of measures which can help to achieve this goal are described, including training the people most vulnerable in traffic. the most vulnerable are always elderly people, pedestrians, cyclists and also motorcyclists, who obviously require special attention because motorcyclists are the only category where casualties have risen – the other categories have all come down.
vice-president of the commission. − probably the numbers are a little different on my papers, but of course i can happily reply to mr paleckis’s question. maritime transport in the baltic sea has increased significantly over recent years, as a result of rapid economic growth. at the same time, the european union has one of the most advanced regulatory frameworks on maritime safety in the world today. the third maritime safety package adopted by parliament and the council in 2009 is a significant improvement of the eu's vessel traffic monitoring and information system. it covers all the seas surrounding europe and introduces strict inspections on ships visiting eu ports, also known as port state control. it contains specific measures for the baltic sea, such as requirements for safe winter navigation and reinforced ice standards for ships. the commission works closely with all the eu baltic states to ensure the smooth implementation of these new measures. the european maritime safety agency (emsa) also provides technical support. if an accident were to happen, emsa has standby pollution response vessels and equipment permanently located in the baltic. this is in addition to the pollution response measures already put in place by the baltic states. the commission also maintains a continuous dialogue with the russian federation to ensure that safety rules are applied coherently in the baltic sea. in this framework, the commission is about to launch a pilot project with the russian administration on monitoring maritime traffic in the baltic sea. a recently adopted eu strategy in the baltic sea region also addresses safety and security. i would, of course, like to respond to this interesting proposal to reduce maritime transport in the baltic sea, but any restriction on maritime transport before its introduction has to be carefully considered and be in line with the united nations convention on the law of the seas and with other internationally agreed conventions. the international maritime organisation already recognises the baltic as a particularly sensitive sea area and this status brings with it particular maritime traffic requirements to reduce the risk of accidents and to protect the marine environment. i would also like to point out that maritime transport is a relatively environmentally-friendly mode of transport. additional restrictions to commercial transport in the baltic sea could potentially promote other less environmentally-friendly modes of transport with increased emissions as a consequence.
i was glad that the commissioner mentioned the cooperation with russia. as regards the standards for environmental improvements for ships, which countries in your opinion are leading in this area and which are not among the best?
in writing. the second major ecological disaster in the last six months in a particular part of our planet the oil spill in the gulf of mexico in april, now the red mud in hungary. although different in nature, both disasters have something in common: they are, or at least their scale is, essentially avoidable through a more responsible approach to the environment. unfortunately, in many eu countries (and not just in some), environmental protection and environmental requirements are often not the first priority when designing, constructing and operating facilities with a significant environmental impact. so i'm sure that each of us, if we look around, we'll find a number of objects that sooner or later could be ecological disaster of a greater or lesser scale. in many places, environmental requirements are neglected (intentionally or through ignorance), construction is allowed to take place in the vicinity of residential areas, environmental impact assessments are carried out only superficially, without any real consultation with the residents, and the results are always in the client's favour. the exploitation of such facilities is also often a source of complaints from the local population. i call on both the european commission and the member states to open their eyes once again and, seeing the real situation, to take action to initiate legislative amendments to tighten controls on the enforcement of environmental requirements and the liability for non-compliance with such requirements, and to ensure independent environmental impact assessment.
i would like to say a few words about the work of the special crisis committee. he has indeed done a great deal of work and has given good recommendations and suggestions. of course, it would be ideal if all of them could find their place in the documents drawn up by the commission. it is essential that the commission does not forget the basic and most important points. one of them is to establish a regulatory and supervisory framework covering all financial markets, financial instruments and financial institutions. the commission should focus its action on job creation and link it to measures to combat poverty and social exclusion. all efforts in this direction must be directed primarily towards the employment of young people. the crisis requires urgent infrastructure solutions in the sectors of renewable energy, green energy, energy-efficient transport, buildings and the european energy grid. it would be very nice if, exactly one year after today's meeting, the commission could come and say: 'the provisions of your proposed resolution did not remain on paper, but we have implemented these specific proposals of the special crisis committee and they have already had a concrete effect.
the financial, economic and social crisis has affected every european, increasing social inequalities and deepening poverty. unfortunately, the difficult year has made even more evident the ineffectiveness and poor coordination of the various national economic recovery plans. moreover, some member states have not even been able to put in place genuine national economic recovery plans, including measures to boost growth and employment, because they have only reduced public spending even further during the difficult year, raising taxes to reduce public debt. unfortunately, in some member states this is at the expense of the ordinary people. i would also like to point out that the crisis has highlighted social inequalities between different social groups, for example, women are at a much higher risk of falling below the poverty line than men. the european union must now learn the lessons of this crisis and, in coordination with the member states, implement its initiatives in all areas.
in writing. − this proposal has achieved the first constructive framework agreement. the increased powers of the european parliament since the treaty of lisbon are of great importance for further cooperation with the european commission and for their future relationship with regard to the implementation of further agreements. this document therefore sets out further guidelines for cooperation between the two institutions. the european parliament will be able to develop a close dialogue with the commission on the commission's work programme and on international agreements. parliament will have the right to receive confidential documents. parliament will be kept informed of the progress of international negotiations and will also be able to act as an expert to make proposals to the commission on these issues. the framework agreement also provides for detailed parliamentary scrutiny, provisions on the election of the president of the commission and the commission itself, and on its composition, possible changes and the re-allocation of responsibilities. parliament is committed to greater transparency and better cooperation with the other institutions. i am pleased that closer cooperation between these two institutions will help member states to transpose european union legislation into national law as quickly and efficiently as possible.
in writing. − this new framework agreement for relations has the potential to consolidate the achievements of the lisbon treaty it could be a significant breakthrough. the amendments to improve legal procedures and strengthen parliamentary oversight are particularly significant. i support all amendments which contribute to improving the flow of information and to promoting the efficiency of relations between the european parliament and the european commission. it is important to ensure that this institutional partnership has as few bureaucratic knots as possible. the new framework agreement for relations governs the 'special partnership' between parliament and the commission. we must remember that the most special partnership is the one between the european union and its citizens. the european union must do more to find a common language with its citizens and to prove its importance in their daily lives. the rapporteur rightly pointed out that this agreement represents a 'new interinstitutional balance', i.e. a sound compromise. but there are some issues on which the european union cannot compromise - these are fundamental human rights and shipping. more power means more responsibility. it is one thing to talk about shared values, but it is quite another to implement and defend them. until this is achieved, the various branches of the european union's institutional framework will not be able to realise their full potential. the european union must be credible if it is to be a cohesive force.
in writing. − in negotiations with representatives of the eu council and the european commission, parliament and in particular the socialist and democratic group negotiators succeeded in ensuring that the budget of the new eu diplomatic service is used in a more transparent manner. parliament will approve its budget implementation on an annual basis, and the commission will have to keep the european parliament regularly informed of its expenditure. i voted in favour of this report because it emphasises that the recruitment of nationals of the member states of the union should ensure the widest possible geographical coverage and adequate and meaningful representation of nationals of all member states. i agree with the rapporteur that the aim must be to ensure that staff are selected on the basis of their abilities and that gender equality is taken into account. it is important that the service, which will be operational from 1 december, is rapidly effective and that it pursues first the eu's interests and, where necessary, national interests.
in writing. − i am pleased that after a long debate the european parliament has today adopted a very important directive. under this new directive, the duration of maternity leave will be increased from 14 to 20 weeks, with full pay. sharing family responsibilities is now essential to resolve demographic problems arising from low birth rates and ageing populations as quickly as possible. it is therefore essential that the directive provides for the right of men to take at least two weeks of paternity leave. it is also the child's inalienable right to maintain contact with both parents. this proposal will create a better balance in families and improve integration into the labour market. parliament has demonstrated its ability to achieve the europe 2020 goals of better reconciling work and family life for economic growth, prosperity, competitiveness and gender equality. i very much hope that this directive adopted by parliament will be adopted by the council in the near future.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, women should not be punished for choosing to have children. this is not only an ethical but also a strategic issue the eu is currently experiencing demographic changes due to low birth rates and an increasing number of older people. especially in these difficult times, we cannot keep women out of the labour market. we need more women in the workforce if the eu is to become more competitive on a global scale. it is time to challenge the stereotypes that have become entrenched in society. women in employment are often seen as high-risk or 'trailblazing' workers. it is therefore important that the new rules on holidays set out in this report help to break down these stereotypes. we should also do more to help women who are marginalized. eu statistics show that single mothers are the most at risk of poverty in lithuania. the risk of poverty for working people in this group is 24%. the union has come a long way towards legally guaranteeing equality between men and women. but we need to go further and make theoretical gender equality a reality, a concrete gender equality that applies in everyday life.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and i am pleased that the european parliament and the council have managed to reach this agreement, which is of great importance for small businesses in particular. while smes are the backbone of the union's competitiveness and the largest creator of jobs, the crisis has made it very clear that they are also the most vulnerable and that member states' policies are not particularly conducive to the promotion and development of smes, as eu legislation such as the sme act is not fully implemented and applied. many companies went bankrupt during the crisis, which is a huge loss. i am therefore very pleased that this is a small but significant step for small businesses in creating clarity on payment settlement deadlines. we will start to create a clear and understandable environment for him and contribute to the creation of a business culture.
in writing. − i voted for this legislation, we believe that a better regulated mutual settlement system is beneficial for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and for the business culture in general. i think that one of the provisions proposed in this document is very advanced. this is encouraging the publication of lists of quick-selling entities. such measures would not only encourage firms (particularly smes) to settle their accounts with each other in a timely manner, thereby reducing the risk of liquidity problems, but would also increase the credibility of such firms and, in turn, their competitiveness.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, despite the many declarations on the fight against poverty, the population of europe remains poor, social inequalities are increasing and the number of workers experiencing poverty is increasing. the european union must take more active measures to combat poverty and social exclusion, with particular attention to people in casual employment, the unemployed, families, the elderly, women, single mothers, socially dependent children, the sick or disabled. one of the key tools in the fight against poverty is a minimum income to help these people to get out of poverty and to guarantee their right to a life of dignity. i would point out that the objective of a minimum income as a means of combating poverty will only be achieved if member states take concrete steps to guarantee a minimum income and implement national programmes to combat poverty. in addition, in some member states minimum income systems are not linked to relative poverty, and it is therefore necessary for the european commission to take into account good and bad practices when evaluating national action plans. thus, a minimum income - a key component of social protection - is clearly important to ensure the protection and equal opportunities of people in poverty in society.
in writing. - colleagues, despite all the claims about poverty reduction, social inequalities have increased about 85 million eu citizens are at risk of poverty. this is a very big problem for lithuania, because 20 percent of our population is at risk of poverty. we need robust employment policies to boost growth and competitiveness in the european social market economy, to prevent macroeconomic imbalances and to ensure social inclusion. but this is not enough to combat unemployment. having a job does not protect you from poverty either. the increase in temporary jobs and low wages means that the percentage of working people at risk of poverty is increasing. according to eu reports, more than 20% of people in lithuania working full-time earn less than 60% of median income, compared to the eu average of around 14%. increasing the minimum monthly wage would help reduce poverty but would not ensure a society free of discrimination. most young people leave lithuania not only because of lack of money and jobs (in the past year, youth unemployment in lithuania reached almost 30%) but also because they feel abandoned and powerless to face decisions that affect their daily lives. that has to change.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the current financial crisis, which has affected the economic and financial sectors, has led to a global economic and social crisis in which the european population continues to suffer poverty, social inequalities are becoming more pronounced and the number of workers in poverty is increasing. i would like to emphasise that the difficult year was further aggravated by the lack of coordination between the various national recovery plans, since it is very likely that coordination at european union level would have a greater impact than that which can be achieved mainly by programmes at national level. the european union has committed itself to combating unemployment and increasing employment, reducing poverty and social exclusion under the europe 2020 strategy, but this strategy must be part of a joint effort to manage the crisis and to plan strategically for the post-crisis period. i share the parliament's position that this strategic task of the european union should also be carried out in close cooperation with national parliaments, the social partners and civil society, and with greater involvement of the european parliament.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, europe has not only been a victim of the financial and social crisis. we're also experiencing a massive crisis of public trust. we need to restore public confidence in our financial and political institutions, both in lithuania and across europe, and to build a viable and sustainable financial system that protects against future crises. we need a transparent, multi-level regulatory mechanism based on sound morals that serves the wider public. the financial crisis has hit lithuania hard in 2009, our economy contracted by 15%. regional specificities and the uneven impact of the crisis should be taken into account in the design of the exit policy. i am pleased that the special committee is emphasising the importance of cohesion instruments, which are important in providing assistance to the eu regions that need it most. they can help us to overcome the effects of the crisis by supporting the necessary investments in infrastructure, business and job creation. the success of recovery also depends heavily on the success of the eu 2020 strategy. it is important that any long-term eu investment strategy is linked to preserving competitiveness and strengthening the internal market, one of the main engines of european growth.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the current economic, financial and social crisis has shown that the current model of economic governance in the union has not worked as effectively as intended. in recent years, the convergence process in the member states has not been sufficiently advanced, and macroeconomic and fiscal imbalances have persisted or even increased over the past decade. the supervisory framework was too weak and the rules of the stability and growth pact, in particular the preventive provisions, were not sufficiently strictly adhered to. i agree with the suggestions in the document that better coordination with the member states and coordination between member states should be pursued, in particular to prevent a repetition of the situation that has recently occurred. it is particularly important that member states fully apply the rules and decisions agreed at eu level, such as the rules and measures of the stability and growth pact. the focus must be on long-term sustainable growth, creating quality jobs, rather than short-term profits, which seriously undermine the financial stability of european markets.
in writing. − colleagues, the current rules of the stability and growth pact and the weak implementation framework have not sufficiently ensured sound fiscal and macroeconomic policies. the recommendations in this report are a good starting point. the rapporteur rightly notes the need for structural reforms in relation to social policy and labour market integration, fiscal incentives for small and medium-sized enterprises. the long-term deficit reduction process should be combined with other economic stimulus efforts, such as improved investment conditions and an improved internal market with increased competitiveness. i am also pleased that the rapporteur recognises that any new measures proposed should not disproportionately affect the most vulnerable member states, in particular the baltic states. this would hamper our economic growth and cohesion efforts. in the past year, the interest in the euro has increased somewhat in non-euro area member states, including lithuania. it is therefore important that we recognise that the decisions taken in the first half of the year to ensure the stability of the euro are temporary and must be backed up by a better economic governance system at eu level.
last week, president yanukovych of ukraine paid an official visit to my country, lithuania, and reaffirmed ukraine's aspiration to become a member of the european union. this will undoubtedly take years and will require a lot of homework and a lot of reforms in various areas, whether it is human rights, fighting corruption, overcoming poverty or strengthening democracy. but i agree with my colleagues who have spoken here in the european parliament that we really should not immediately condemn ukraine as a state, we should not prevent it from becoming an equal partner, and so i say again that we in the european parliament really have to work together as equal partners and help ukraine to come into the european union.
in writing. ukraine has always played a special role in the eu's eastern partnership policy. its size, location, and historical complexity make it an important bridge between east and west. no wonder europe has followed the political developments inside ukraine closely, both then and now. unfortunately, the current picture is not a one-sided one. it must be admitted that the new government was elected in free and democratic elections and helped ukraine to emerge from the economic and political chaos that had reigned for six months. on the other hand, we cannot ignore the worrying trends in media freedom. but i agree with my colleagues who said that today's resolution is untimely. i think it should be postponed and after the visit of the ep delegation next week, after the upcoming municipal elections and the eu-ukraine summit, we could present a more balanced and objective parliament's position. ukraine can set a good example for other cis countries in how to pursue the path of rapprochement with the eu while maintaining good relations with russia.
thank you for your answer. it would be very interesting to know why the member states are so hesitant to ratify the united nations convention. are you afraid to take on the responsibility of creating equal opportunities for people with disabilities? and again, mr minister, if it is not too difficult, i would like to ask whether the preparation of the anti-discrimination directive has made any progress and how the negotiations and discussions, the consultations with the member states on the acceleration of the anti-discrimination directive are proceeding, because it is also very important for people with disabilities.
president of the council. - ladies and gentlemen, the initiative is excellent and, moreover, contacts between ministers and general education officials show us how different the situations are from one country of the union to another because there are sometimes very specific, very selective programmes in some of our countries to avoid those who drop out of school being marginalised. so this map is particularly important. it will take time because assessing this situation in 27 member states is not easy. i think that work on school drop-outs is beginning under the belgian presidency and that the following presidencies, the hungarian one in particular, will certainly be able to initiate a draft recommendation, not only to reduce the school drop-out rate but also to draw conclusions on this aspect of the map of the 27 member states, on what happens to students who drop out of school when they are particularly marginalised and are not taken up, as you indicate, by a more technical education system.
thank you very much, mr minister, for your efforts as the presidency of the council to fight poverty. but do you not agree that poverty is also one reason why not all young people finish high school and are forced to drop out? today our european parliament is voting in favour of a very important decision on the introduction of a minimum income throughout the european union. what would be your view as the presidency, if this were also one of the means of deterring young people from going on to secondary education and not leaving school?
president of the council. - i would like to say that i agree with both of the interventions, which link, it is true, school drop-out to poverty and social exclusion. it seems to me obvious that a number of our children, depending on their family status, depending on the financial status of their parents, are not favoured in relation to their schooling and that the economic crisis has obviously amplified this phenomenon very seriously. that said, both the council and the commission have understood this well, since we have adopted, as you know, together, this 2020 strategy which combines economic development, research and development, the quality of our education but also the fight against poverty. all these elements form a whole which, it seems to me, allows a coherent answer to be given. i want to go back a little bit to the key competences because it's an important topic. the conclusions which the belgian presidency will submit to the november council for adoption will address a number of objectives. i'll give you a quick list of them: the implementation of national strategies to improve student performance in reading, math, science. it is also an analysis of the effectiveness of current strategies at national level in order to have a source of data which can feed into decision-making, as was said earlier. but it also means creating pilot projects between member states which are voluntary and aimed at improving the basic skills of young europeans. it is also, why not, a more efficient use of the instruments available and relevant, such as those which are part of the open method of coordination, the programme for education, lifelong learning or the seventh framework programme for research and technological development. these are a number of objectives which we will pursue under the belgian presidency and which will certainly be taken up by the subsequent presidencies, and in particular the hungarian presidency.
president of the council. − the european union has been working for years towards the total elimination of antipersonnel landmines in order to help solve the enormous humanitarian and development problems caused by them. as early as may 1995, by council decision 95/170/cfsp, the european union adopted its first ever joint action to help combat the use and proliferation of antipersonnel landmines throughout the world. the european union was therefore the first to act in the international community in november 1997 following the conclusion of the ottawa convention on the prohibition of the use, stockpiling, production and transfer of antipersonnel mines and on their destruction. on 18 september, the council adopted a new joint action to pursue the union's political efforts towards the total elimination of anti-personnel landmines and, more specifically, to establish a common moratorium on the transfer and production of anti-personnel mines and to enable a multi-dimensional contribution within the union to the demining effort and other related activities. the european union has since been promoting these commitments, which have been based on the european security strategy since 2003. in june 2008, a new joint action was adopted in support of the universalisation of the ottawa convention. it is also intended to provide specific assistance to states parties to the convention in the implementation of the provisions of the convention, in particular with regard to demining, assistance to victims and stockpile destruction. and although the number of states parties to the convention has increased considerably, and the number of victims of antipersonnel landmines is decreasing, the need for assistance and tangible improvement in the lives of victims remains. the european union participated in the development of the 2010-14 action plan which it fully supports , adopted in cartagena, colombia, at the second review conference of the convention from 29 november to 4 december 2009. a new council decision is currently being prepared to specifically support the action plan and its victim assistance component. in parallel with the council's more political action, the assistance programmes managed by the commission under development aid and neighbourhood policy with the national programmes of the member states have increased the european union's contribution to mine clearance and victim assistance to €1.8 billion, half the global contribution.
president of the council. - you're right, we spent 1.5 billion, two thousand people are still victims per month. the european union cannot do it alone - it is already doing half the work - all that needs to be done in this area. i think i've made it clear how much we're aware of the human side of this problem. unfortunately, we cannot go much further in the matter of decision-making. only tangible and visible progress in disarmament is likely to be possible, and we are particularly concerned with the issue of banning anti-personnel mines.
president of the council. - the two questions are very complementary and i was going to answer the first on the basis of the second's question. it is true that any research programme to locate antipersonnel mines anywhere in the world would be welcome. this requires close cooperation with the united nations and, above all, the ability to reach agreement within the un bodies and with all those who make up those bodies. this is a long-term task because it is necessary to convince others who do not necessarily agree with the resources to be invested in the development of this kind of research programme.
president of the council. - ladies and gentlemen, the fight against violence against women is a common objective of the european parliament and the council. as you know, our two institutions have been working on this for several years in many different contexts. i would remind you of the resolution you adopted last year when we celebrated the tenth anniversary of the un resolution establishing 25 november as the international day for the elimination of violence against women. in this resolution you called on the commission to come forward with a proposal for a more coherent and targeted community policy and urged the member states to create a coherent system for collecting data. as the honourable member has pointed out, last march the council called on the commission to devise a european strategy to prevent and combat violence against women. one of the priorities identified by the council in this regard is to prepare the creation of a european observatory on violence against women, building on existing structures. the commission is currently drawing up a new strategy on violence against women, which will also include the creation of this observatory, but the content of which is not yet known. we hope to receive this strategy within the next year. it is therefore very likely that a separate proposal will subsequently be necessary for the establishment of this observatory. the council can of course only act as legislator on the basis of a proposal, as you know, from the commission. such a proposal will be duly examined by the council, acting as a co-legislator with the european parliament. it is obviously a little premature at this stage to make any assumptions about the possible definition of the objectives of a future observatory on violence against women and, above all, about the date of its entry into operation.
thank you very much, mr minister, for your answer. however, it seems that there is hope that one day such a centre will be established, which will collect reliable data on the unfortunately still existing violence against women. however, i would like to ask whether you think that the data available in the member states are sufficient to make the fight against violence against women a real priority. i believe that we do not yet have such reliable data, and that is one of the reasons why there are still quite a number of different types of violence in the european union.
mr president, moldova has come a long way since the molotov-ribbentrop pact divided europe into spheres of influence and moldova became part of the ussr. moldova today is an independent state. it is true that it has many problems. at the same time, it is a democratic country on the way to european integration, so today i would like to encourage all political classes in that country, all the democratic political forces and all the ethnic communities to avoid unnecessary confrontations and concentrate on developing a broad vision for the republic of moldova with the aim of directing the country towards achieving its european goals. last but not least, there is transnistria. transnistria should be high on our agenda and i welcome the initiative by the german chancellor, angela merkel, and by the political leaders of some other countries to resolve this frozen conflict.
madam president, i wish to move an oral amendment which is simply a stylistic improvement to paragraph 11. this will ensure the dignity of our house, which should not ‘call on’ or ‘ask’ an illegitimate de facto authority to behave better. in making a reminder of the right of moldovan citizens to vote, ‘calls on’ should be replaced by ‘states that’ and after ‘transnistria’, ‘have no right to prevent ...’ should be inserted. please support this oral amendment. we should not ask the authorities, but insist.
i voted for the resolution on moldova. moldova has come a long way since the molotov-ribbentrop pact divided europe into zones of influence and moldova remained in the soviet union's sphere of influence. today moldova is an independent state, with many problems, but on the path to european integration. today i would like to call once again on the entire moldovan political class, political elite, all democratic political forces and national minorities to abandon counterproductive confrontation and develop a culture of consensus and political compromise. and i think they should offer the public a comprehensive vision of the republic of moldova, aimed at the republic of moldova's membership of the european union. the resolution also mentions the frozen conflict in transnistria. transnistria must be high on the european union's agenda and all parties, including russia, must respect moldova's territorial integrity. transnistria shall be part of the republic of moldova.
i voted in favour of the resolution on an integrated maritime policy because the maritime sector is vital and i want to leave clean and safe seas for future generations. the geostrategic importance of the seas has increased considerably. we need to re-adapt the seas and their resources and coordinate our actions, and an integrated maritime policy is important in that it will bring together all the maritime policy areas: maritime transport, fisheries, aquaculture, energy, maritime safety, marine protection and research, as well as tourism. i would like to draw particular attention to the economic and social importance of the european union's 320 000 km of coastline and the fact that one third of the citizens of the european union live on the coast and this number is increasing. i believe that the seas should continue to be the engine of economic growth.
mr president, i would like to commend the rapporteur on trade with latin america for this eventually well-balanced and timely report. the deepening of trade relations with the latin american countries is already under way, as the european union has recently concluded a free trade agreement with two andean countries, colombia and peru. recently, we finished the longest-standing dispute in the wto with latin american countries on trade in bananas. we will soon start negotiating a milestone free trade agreement with all of the mercosur countries with which we conduct more than eur 62 billion of trade in goods. the eu’s investment stock in the mercosur region amounts to eur 167 billion a year. these numbers are only set to grow in the coming years. the conclusion of such an agreement, along with the upcoming free trade negotiations with japan and india, will undoubtedly be one of the most significant steps in implementing the eu’s strategy of becoming the most important trade player in the world.
there is no doubt that the relationship between parents and children during the first months of life is of particular importance, and the new european union directive will ensure that mothers have the right and the opportunity to take care of their children for longer periods without fear of losing their income and jobs. the situation varies from country to country. for example, in my country lithuania, maternity leave plus parental leave lasts up to two years, but other countries have a minimum number of maternity leave, so i think that the minimum threshold we set yesterday is a very important achievement. parental leave and leave for adoption are also welcome. although family policy is, as we say, a matter for the member states, we are talking here more about the protection of workers and some incentives for parents to reconcile family and professional life.
in writing. − conflicts in haiti, kosovo, iraq, and more recently in afghanistan have shed light on the crucial role that small arms and light weapons play in terrorism and organized crime, and in igniting new rounds of bloodshed after formal cease-fire. it is important that the community adopts a truly comprehensive approach to the problem of salw proliferation by targeting all levels of the illicit salw trade chain. given that 70% of global salw stockpile is in civilian hands, eu should recognize and support the indispensible efforts of civil society in monitoring salw trade and production at the local level and in raising public awareness. in addition, the salw issue reveals the multidimensional nature of 21st century conflicts in general, and thereby the need for a stronger focus in pre- and post-crisis capacity building. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that eu should strive to hone its ability to manage crisis in the most innovative, efficient and cost-effective manner. only then would eu be able to lead the world as a foremost global civilian power.
in writing. - i have endorsed this document because i believe that the consumer must know who the manufacturer of the product of choice is. the information, as stated in the adopted document, ensures security and consumer safety and information must be the priority principles. the member states of the european union are very often only a link here the raw material obtained in a third country is used to make a product, so it is difficult to tell who is the real producer. the indication of the country of origin is also necessary to enable small producers, who are often in competition with large companies that imitate the original, to be protected. it is also necessary to seek the introduction of common rules for the labelling of the environmental standards with which the product is produced.
in writing. − moldova one of the neighbours that is successfully moving closer to the european union. reforms are being made in the areas of justice and public administration, and the fight against corruption is being strengthened. the issue of visa liberalisation with the eu is moving forward. however, many issues remain unresolved, including the issue of transnistria. the country is in an economic crisis. the citizens of moldova expect concrete reforms that will improve their lives. i voted in favour of this resolution because it calls on the european commission to continue to pursue full visa liberalisation with this country in order to promote human relations, to continue to support moldova and to help the country to achieve its european integration goals. the parliamentary elections on 28 november will be a major test for moldova. it is an opportunity to show that its citizens share the same values as eu citizens. i call on the political forces in the country to guarantee political order and stability after the elections.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because i believe that an integrated maritime policy is essential to ensure an adequate level of environmental protection. one of the key principles is the coordination of different policies and the need to ensure compliance with the principle of ecosystem protection enshrined in the eu marine strategy framework directive. in particular, i support the measures for the coordination of maritime surveillance and control, protection of the marine environment and research mentioned in the document. on behalf of lithuania, a country in the baltic sea region, i am pleased that this document focuses on the broadest possible range of scientific research to identify and assess the current state of the seas. the baltic sea is one of the most economically damaged seas, one of the most polluted seas in the world. as the disaster of the oil spill in the gulf of mexico demonstrated, a fragile marine ecosystem can be damaged in an instant. i therefore particularly support the call in the report for member states to take more active action by providing for a multi-faceted marine protection strategy.
mr president, the eu-us agenda is as full as ever and both parties should use the opportunity to advance common positions on issues such as financial regulation, climate change, the deepening of trade ties, nuclear proliferation and the fight against terrorism. the economic recovery, however, has to be issue number one on the agenda. the transatlantic economic relationship is vital to global prosperity as the bilateral trade of our two economies represents almost usd 4.3 trillion. our economic partnership is a key driver of global economic prosperity and represents the largest, most integrated and longest lasting economic relationship in the world. together our economies account for half of the global economy. therefore we need to devise common strategies on the further actions we are going to take to ensure stable recovery from the crisis, including regulating the financial markets, the stimulus packages, and strategies to curb currency manipulation of other major global economies. on the other hand, we should reconsider whether holding biannual eu-us summits is a good idea. president obama’s decision not to attend the previous summit in madrid earlier this year exposed the excessive eu synergy. by insisting on frequent bilateral summits we risk devaluing them to the extent that they will become irrelevant.
in writing. following president barack obama's election victory two years ago, the eu and the us have become increasingly aligned, particularly on disarmament, the fight against climate change and the suppression of international conflicts. this is a big capital, this line needs to be continued. unfortunately, some of the common transatlantic goals have not yet been achieved. a large part of the american public is opposed to action on climate change. an ambitious bill to curb greenhouse gas emissions is still stuck in the senate. no progress on the eu-wide issue of abolition of the death penalty. the eu-us summit will take place in lisbon next month. i hope that the eu will be able to convince its partners in the us to continue to make progress towards the common objectives listed. it is also increasingly important to include russia in the transatlantic dialogue.
member of the commission. − madam president, the terrorist threat is still there and we need to address it. we have lots of tools to do so, but changing and sharing of information is key to doing this. we have pnr agreements. i already have seen strong evidence that pnr is essential to identify and to prevent terrorist attacks. we will make sure that this evidence is provided to the european parliament with concrete examples both from the three countries we are discussing and from the subsequent eu pnr. this is essential to enable you to assess this properly and to discuss it with your voters. we should exchange pnr, but that should not be done without rules. we need to have the relevant information, to be able to join the dots and to have clear rules. we need to define the scope, the retention times, to have a high level of data protection and the possibility of redress for the individual. we need to have clear rules on third-country transfer and we need to be proportionate. all this is in the communication from the commission and i am very happy to see that, although the details might vary, your communication is very much in line with this. these are the issues that will be subject to negotiations with our three partners; they will be difficult, yet ambitious on our part. my goal is to do this together with the council and with the eu’s other three institutions, so that the institutions can speak with one voice and be a clear partner in this. from the beginning i have tried to involve parliament and to engage in an open and transparent way with it, with its relevant committees, the rapporteurs, the shadow rapporteurs, the coordinators and so on, and will continue to do so. i undertake that, at all stages of the negotiations, once they have begun, i will keep you fully and immediately informed, to have an open discussion and to listen to your views. although the commission will lead the negotiations, i am willing to discuss with you and to inform you and have good cooperation with you on this.
acting president of the council. - mr president, i would like to begin by saying that as minister of the interior i know that we have been able to prevent possible attacks all too often by exchanging information and interpreting it. that is why this debate and the conclusion of a proper pnr agreement are so important. i know that the commission has a very difficult task once the mandates have been approved by the council; it will have to start effective negotiations and strike a balance between what we all want here and what we all agree on, namely the protection of personal data. but on the other hand, there is also a clear tendency here in this house to say: we need a pnr, we often need information, precisely to protect us against, for example, terrorist attacks. i am glad that the european parliament, the council and the commission are on the same page and have the same balance in mind: a balance between data protection and security for which we are all responsible. i think we're at the point where we're going to approve the mandates. the difficult task of effective negotiation follows. we must ensure that we do not stray too far from our mandate and that we always maintain that balance. i should like to address a number of specific questions, such as the comment on the sunset clause: it is important to point out that this mandate is for seven years, that it is evaluated after four years and that an extension, if the agreement is reached and accepted here, will only be possible after a debate here in parliament. which i think is logical. it's not a real sunset clause, but it does tend very strongly towards it, because of the deadline, because of the evaluation after four years. the council's conclusions also rightly state that we attach great importance to articles 7 and 8 of the charter of fundamental rights of the eu. this has also been commented on. we have to keep this going. of course, it is in the interests of all of us, and that is also stated in the mandate, that there should be an independent body where individuals can lodge a complaint if they find that their data has been used improperly or for other purposes. finally, and this will be a very difficult point, the question of profiling, where we all want a risk analysis. because it's based on the data you collect that you can make risk analyses and then make the right decisions. on the other hand, it is of course absolutely necessary to avoid stigmatising certain ethnic groups, even though a group here may have advocated this. i think we absolutely do not want ethnic stigmatization. i also think that is one of the fundamental rights that we all have here as citizens in europe, and i want to make sure that we do not end up in such a situation, especially as president of the council.
in writing. parliament seeks to strengthen the procedure for the transfer of passenger data records to third parties. particular attention should be paid to the protection of passengers' personal data. the data provided by passengers may be used by law enforcement authorities for the investigation of crimes and risk assessment. the resolution stresses that the right to information and the right to privacy must be respected. parliament also wants the transfer of data to comply with european data protection standards. it is essential to provide legally binding standards for the protection of personal data, which ensure the protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms. the application of these standards must be the responsibility of independent authorities on both sides of the atlantic. parliament endorses the commission recommendation to open negotiations on an agreement between the european union and the united states on the protection of personal data in connection with the transfer and processing of such data for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences, including terrorism. in order to ensure effective cooperation between the institutions, the commission should inform the european parliament at all stages of the negotiations on the protection of personal data.
thank you, madam president. first of all, i would also like to thank the representatives of the european commission and the rapporteurs for a very important document. the financial and economic crisis has highlighted the shortcomings in the functioning and control of our financial system. legislation is already being adopted in europe to create a robust framework at european union level to monitor and assess the activities of financial institutions and, if necessary, to make appropriate recommendations and take appropriate action. as regards alternative funds, they should also be subject to supervisory regimes. if we are to achieve greater and better stability in the financial system and better protection for our investors, that is, our citizens, then the activities of such funds must also be controlled and supervised at european union level. the rules must be the same for all those involved, and we must not leave any loopholes for uncontrolled activity. we must learn from past mistakes and not repeat them. i think that not only europe but the whole world is learning from them.
the implementation of innovation policy and technological achievements should become a decisive factor not only for the implementation of the eu 2020 strategy but also for the future growth and competitiveness of the union itself. the implementation of virtually all eu policies, such as energy efficiency, a cleaner economy, reducing the negative impact of climate change, ensuring social well-being and creating jobs, will depend directly on the effectiveness of innovation policy. europe needs an integrated innovation policy, which can only succeed if effective and coordinated cooperation is ensured at regional, national and european level. i believe that the european innovation partnership, which the commission is launching, is a major step towards a more and better coordinated innovation policy, which would allow for significantly better competitiveness performance and contribute to faster progress for the community as a whole in the future.
mr president, i fully support what has been said by our rapporteurs, mr díaz de mera and mr kovatchev. taiwan is a developed country with high technical and administrative standards. it certainly meets the highest standards of safety and security for control and customs procedures. i would therefore like to urge our colleagues to go ahead with the proposal to grant taiwan its long-overdue visa waiver status. taiwan is also a member of the world trade organisation as a single customs territory. we should not stop here – we should encourage taiwan’s accession to other international organisations as well, such as the international civil aviation organisation or the united nations framework convention on climate change. taiwan is a country that deserves such recognition, as it is an important partner of the european union in the east asian region. ties are set to grow, to the advantage of both parties. we need to look forward to the intensification of ties with taiwan in the future. one of the possible developments that we should consider is the negotiation of a more comprehensive trade regime with taiwan, especially now that it has signed the milestone economic co-operation framework agreement. if we move in this direction, the visa-free regime is an essential element in deepening relations between the eu and taiwan.
the number of older people in europe whose only source of income is a pension is increasing rapidly. people who have worked hard and honestly all their lives, raised children, and paid taxes to the government expect to live a long, prosperous life. sadly, not all such legitimate expectations are destined to be fulfilled. europeans in particular felt this during the economic crisis. as pensions kept rising, so did the security of savings for old age, and so did the number of older people who had to support their children who had lost their jobs. and in some countries, like my country, lithuania, pensioners have been hurt by the authorities, too, by reducing pensions and social benefits. there is a lot of discussion about the new commission proposal to consider the possibility of delaying retirement age. but what worries me most is that no solutions are being put forward to ensure the employment of older people. without the possibility of retirement, millions of unemployed people of retirement age may find themselves trapped in poverty. and the extent to which people's health will allow them to work longer is underestimated. it is also necessary to take into account that women are more likely than men to work in low-paid jobs because of childbirth and motherhood, care for children, disabled family members, loss of insurance guarantees and, ultimately, lower pensions. i therefore urge the commission and the council, in the light of the rapid ageing of the european population, to look for other ways of ensuring normal living conditions for current and future pensioners.
i really want to congratulate the rapporteur because i really agree with many of the points made on tackling demographic problems and strengthening solidarity between generations. however, as regards the elderly, i cannot agree with the provision for retirement before the normal retirement age has been reached. indeed, very often older people are forced into early retirement by circumstances and very often not of their own volition. however, in the aftermath of the economic crisis, early retirement is often the only way out for older people who have lost their jobs. therefore, given the differences between national pension systems in the member states, it is necessary to take into account the practice of all member states of the european union rather than following the example of one or only a few countries.
first of all, i should also like to congratulate my colleague from the group of the european people's party on her hard work in negotiating this document and in including it in the context of the energy market, which is of vital importance for the european union as a whole. in the context of energy security, it is particularly important to promote the development of energy efficiency and renewable energy sources and to ensure the necessary funding for such projects. the successful implementation of such projects would directly contribute to the achievement of the european union's energy objectives. this additional money will allow local and regional authorities to better finance sustainable energy projects and implement innovative financial incentive schemes such as guarantees and soft loans. so far, energy efficiency plans such as the renovation of buildings, which has already been discussed, have not been fully implemented, so i believe that this additional funding will be a good incentive to accelerate sustainable energy initiatives and projects, especially at regional and local level.
support for energy infrastructure projects under the european union's economic stimulus funds was discussed and allocated a year ago. the funds were then allocated to only two types of projects aimed at reducing carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere, i.e. ccs and wind farms in the north sea. we cannot have a one-size-fits-all answer for this support and for support for renewable energy in general. we must take account of the situation in each member state, especially as regards energy independence. the proposal of the european commission to revise the funding arrangements for the programme in the light of the promotion of energy efficiency is therefore to be welcomed. but i don't think we should be talking about this just in the light of the financial crisis, because once the economy hits a normal cycle, the energy efficiency question is not going anywhere. member states should have the flexibility to respond more flexibly to changing circumstances, thereby promoting energy efficiency, energy diversification and greater independence.
in writing. the possibility of channelling funds not used under the regulation to develop energy efficiency and renewable energy projects was already programmed in the regulation, but i am pleased that we were able to reach a consensus on concrete implementation so quickly. energy efficiency and renewable energy have been repeatedly identified as eu priorities to help deliver the 2020 strategy and ensure energy security. investment in this sector is crucial in a difficult economic period, as it will create jobs, boost competitiveness, innovation and economic sustainability. the financial instrument envisaged, the creation of a joint fund with the european financial institution, will also increase the amount available several times, thus broadening the scope for project financing. it is regrettable that the financial instrument envisaged is not continuous, but i hope that it will provide the right incentive to further promote energy efficiency and renewable energy.
i voted for this very important document. and now that the european parliament's decision to lift visas for taiwanese citizens of the republic of china travelling to the european union, a member of the schengen area, has been adopted by such a large, such a significant majority, i congratulate the people of taiwan with all my heart. they will now be able to travel to the european union without a visa. in addition, as of today, citizens of all european union member states, including cyprus, bulgaria and romania, will be able to travel to taiwan without a visa. so i think that taiwan and its people deserve this decision and i welcome and rejoice in this decision of the european parliament.
mr president, i welcome the decision of president barack obama to attend the eu-us summit this month in lisbon and i voted in favour of the resolution today. there are so many important issues to be discussed. the eu-us agenda is full as ever, and both parties should use the opportunity to advance common positions on issues such as financial regulation, climate change, deepening of treaties and the fight against terrorism. economic recovery, however, has to be the number-one issue on the agenda. our economic partnership is a key driver of global economic prosperity. together our economies account for half of the global economy. therefore we need to devise common strategies for our further actions to ensure a stable recovery from the crisis, including regulating the financial markets, the stimulus packages and strategies to efficiently address currency manipulation by other major global players.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution because in my view the european parliament has to demonstrate that it takes seriously the issues of security, the fight against terrorism and organised and transnational crime. we are also serious in taking into account our relations with partners such as the united states, canada and australia. after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the european parliament now has to give its consent to the agreements between the eu and third countries on the transfer of passenger name record (pnr) data, with a view to concluding those agreements. we must therefore use this power responsibly. in the light of the fact that parliament has already decided once, on 5 may this year, to postpone the vote on the request for consent for the agreements with the usa and australia, and that the current eu-canada agreement on the transfer of pnr is no longer valid, we should make sure that when the time comes we give the green light to these important measures, which will enhance the security in the transatlantic area and beyond.
i voted in favour of this very important resolution because i believe that the role of the european union in the osce is crucial to the achievement of the objectives pursued by the osce. it should also be noted that the european union and the osce, although having very different structures, share the same principles and values, namely respect for human rights and democracy. i support the provisions of the resolution calling on kazakhstan to take concrete steps before the summit to protect and respect the osce core values of human rights, the rule of law, freedom of expression. i would very much like the public forum, which should take place at the same time as the osce summit, to be unhindered and to be a success. and i want to stress once again that the osce must be led by states that respect human rights, that defend human rights and democratic values. and they should be an example to other osce members.
i voted for this manno document because it reflects the problems of intergenerational interaction. the main theme is the demographic problems of the european union through the role of young people. meanwhile, this document seeks to bring together the specificities of all generations and the related problems in the health, education, employment and similar sectors, seeking balanced solutions to address these problems. older people we should be grateful to them for their contribution to the development of the european union, both economically and culturally. these people must be guaranteed a good old age. but with an ageing europe, it seems that this will be quite difficult to do. this requires not only the improvement of family policy but also the development of a younger generation capable of creating added value, i.e. through education systems, non-formal education. of course, efforts must be made to integrate young people into the labour market. so thank you for this report.
i voted for a document on simplifying joint research in the european union. unfortunately, i have missed the opportunity to discuss this in a wider context in the plenary, but the document itself is certainly important and its adoption is welcome. it is important to create a level playing field for scientists from all countries of the european union. to provide for equal remuneration for scientific activities without discriminating between scientists according to their national standard of living, since scientific progress is a matter for the european union as a whole and not for individual countries. the current situation is that the work of scientists from the new member states is less appreciated than that of the old ones. such discriminatory practices are unfair and unacceptable. it is also important to ensure a level playing field for all scientific institutions, regardless of their size and financial capacity. this is particularly important for research institutions in the newest eu countries. it is not the size of organisations but the progress of science that creates value, and it is therefore important to provide opportunities not only for universities but also for non-profit research institutes and other scientific organisations to apply and participate in research programmes. so i congratulate all the scientific people, and with the easing of the research mechanisms, we will move forward.
in writing. − this regulation establishes the lists of third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders of the union and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement. the application of visa requirements to third countries needs to be considered on a case-by-case basis. the purpose of this proposal is to lift the visa requirement for taiwanese nationals. the european parliament endorsed the objective of this proposal. the development of a common immigration policy is essential to the development of trade and economic relations between the european union and taiwan. in recent years, taiwan's economy has been growing rapidly and its per capita income is now the highest in the world. taiwan is also a great partner for cooperation in the fields of science, investment, new technologies, education, culture, tourism. therefore, the visa waiver for taiwan will strengthen trade and economic relations with the european union.
in writing. − i thank the authors of the report for the excellent legislative initiative which i supported, as financing projects in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy sources will help to stimulate economic recovery, create jobs, promote social inclusion and attract regions. these projects are most effective when implemented at municipal, regional and local level and, in duly justified cases, can be more effectively pursued at national level as well. the current financial and economic crisis and the resulting decline in budgetary revenues are having a particularly negative impact on the finances of local and regional authorities and it should be ensured that the difficult financial situation of these authorities does not prevent them from obtaining funding. fortunately, the short-term economic impact is required, the period between the submission of the application for project authorisation and the financial decision should not exceed six months. as we know, the eu is increasingly dependent on oil and gas suppliers. in some countries, projects for building renovation, gas and electricity infrastructure, interconnections, wind farms, and carbon capture and storage are making slow progress. unused funds from these projects could be used for this purpose. the communication is particularly relevant for lithuania, which is increasingly dependent on russian energy resources, and i therefore hope that the government will make every effort to secure funding and channel financial resources to the local level in order to create added value, direct benefits for citizens, reduce energy poverty and avoid bureaucratic obstacles.
in writing. - i support this resolution. with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the european union has become a major global player on the international stage. while the eu and the us remain the world's strongest economic powers, the serious impact of the financial and economic crisis has led to the creation of a more integrated transatlantic market, which would create more favourable conditions for economic growth, sustainable social development. it is therefore necessary to develop bilateral cooperation in the development of a common energy strategy that supports the diversification and security of energy resources and supply chains and promotes an environmentally efficient economy. in addition, the creation of a new business culture requires the strengthening of innovation, creativity and the use of information and communication technologies, and the intensification of cooperation in education, research and science.
in writing. − the eu and the us have many points of contact and a dominant role in solving global problems. however, we need to learn from each other's good practices and strengthen partnerships to ensure that actions are effective. these issues are relevant to climate change, a healthy environment and food security. the massive ecological disaster in the gulf of mexico has raised hopes that the u.s. administration will take appropriate action to ensure environmental stewardship and bring the problems of climate change closer to solution. the eu must play an active role at the cancún climate change conference. it is important that the us should be part of this agreement, because sometimes it seems that it is easier to reach an agreement with developing countries than with the us. it is necessary to explore ways of linking the eu greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme with regional or federal emissions trading schemes in the us. we must also seek transatlantic partnerships on strategic energy issues on security of energy supply and on the policy of transition to low-carbon energy sources. the issue of transatlantic cooperation in the area of a healthy environment the application of new food products and new technologies in food production. eu society is not yet fully prepared for innovation, so countries must respect each other's choice. a strong eu-us partnership must be mutually beneficial and in a global context. i hope that the upcoming eu-us summit will be a step towards this goal.
in writing. − i support this resolution. the global impact of acts of terrorism and the increase in organised crime in the areas of drug trafficking and human trafficking are forcing an intensification of efforts to combat crime and terrorism. to be effective, such actions must be based on more efficient, faster and more focused data exchange at european and global level. however, the main problem remains the protection of personal data against their use for purposes other than the prevention, investigation and detection of criminal offences. in my view, the commission must ensure that all agreements and arrangements for the transfer of personal data meet the requirements of proportionality and ensure the privacy of personal information. in this process, the european parliament, as the body representing citizens, must be regularly informed by the commission on all issues relating to the transfer of personal data in order to express its position on the envisaged agreements. this will enable us to find the best solutions to ensure that our citizens' data is used only under strictly regulated rules and to ensure the protection of their personal information.
in writing. − parliament is seeking to strengthen the transfer of data protection records to third country authorities. it is essential that the use of personal data is efficient, that the use of information is sufficiently flexible and that it is possible at the same time to protect the privacy of individuals. parliament called for a standardised model for passenger data to be developed and for data to be transferred and processed for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences, including terrorism. it is essential that these personal data records are not used for data mining or automatic classification of people and that decisions are made by people rather than relying solely on an electronic system to review the data. to this end, it is essential to cooperate and exchange information with competent, independent authorities in order to ensure their effective and independent decisions on the transfer of personal data.
in writing. - i supported this resolution. the osce is an integral part of the euro-atlantic and eurasian security architecture with a broad security concept covering political and military, economic and environmental and human dimensions. however, despite its importance, the osce is the only security organisation without international legal personality, with many political and practical legal implications. the role of the organisation is crucial for addressing a wide range of issues , including non-proliferation , disarmament , economic cooperation , and the protection and promotion of human rights . however, the lack of legal status and the problems of decision-making mechanism weaken this organisation, since it is not always able to respond in a timely and appropriate manner to crises. i support the proposals in the resolution that the dialogue on the legal basis of the osce should be continued and that lithuania's chairmanship of the osce in 2011 should ensure consistency and progress in the process of strengthening this important organisation.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, as many of you are aware, lithuania will assume the chairmanship of the osce in january 2011. this presidency could be a unique opportunity for my country to take the lead in strengthening regional cooperation, enhancing energy security and fighting corruption. it is also important not to underestimate the human dimension of osce cooperation. in addition to its political-military dimension, the osce also plays an important role in promoting respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. the eu also has a major role to play in this area. coordination of eu and osce action in the field of human rights is in the common interest of all of us. let us not forget the circumstances in which the osce was founded. this year marks the 35th anniversary of the adoption of the osce founding conference and the helsinki final act, which laid the foundations of the organisation. this event symbolized a moral and political commitment to the principles of democracy and human rights. i regret that in recent years this helsinki spirit has been lost. we need to change that. i therefore look forward with great impatience to the outcome of the osce summit in astana in december.
in writing. - i support this report. today we face a double challenge: high levels of youth unemployment and problems in financing pension systems. these two phenomena are interrelated and should therefore be addressed together. demographic change can be managed if it is adequately prepared and addressed. the main measures to ensure a balance between generations and to help eliminate unfair discrimination are left to the member states themselves. these are the under-monitoring of pension systems, national budgets, health, education and employment policies, where structural reforms should be pursued and new sustainable solutions sought. in the meantime, the eu should be responsible for the exchange of good practice between member states, as well as for monitoring the implementation of eu legislation in the member states and for taking the initiative in adopting important legislation in these areas.
in writing. − i voted for this report because we must not seek conflict and competition between generations, but equal opportunities and solidarity. however, i did not support the rapporteur's view that early retirement should be abolished. indeed, very often older people retire early because of circumstances rather than because of their own choice. in the aftermath of the economic crisis, early retirement is often the only way out for older people who have lost their jobs. given the differences in national pension systems between member states, it is therefore necessary to take into account the practice of all member states of the european union rather than following the example of one or only a few countries. it is for the member states to decide on the implementation of the early retirement provision, taking into account their national situation and practice. i would also like to point out that both demographic change and age discrimination are damaging to generational solidarity and economic growth. such discrimination severely reduces the access to the labour market for both older and younger workers.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, the report rightly notes that the continuing decline in the population and the continuing trend towards low birth rates in the european union pose a number of challenges to the european economy and society. for these reasons, the eu labour market will undergo structural changes, mostly negative. in lithuania, these demographic problems are further aggravated by the mass exodus of young lithuanians to work abroad. we are a small nation and we are rapidly losing the most active people between 25 and 40 years old, who have been invested a lot in education and training. lithuania needs the skills, experience and ability of these young people to work hard to overcome the demographic challenges mentioned above. i therefore support the initiative proposed by the rapporteur, the 'european youth guarantee', which would offer every young person in the eu a job, a place of study or further vocational training after six months of unemployment. more should also be done to increase fertility rates: access to high-quality care for young children and their education and development is the first step in the right direction. social exclusion of older people must also be prevented. our economy and our society need to make sure that older people are not a burden. their experience, achievements and knowledge can be passed on to future generations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. science, education and innovation are the foundation for economic growth and job creation. europe must invest in innovation if it is to create new products and services. this will create new jobs and growth in conditions, making europe more competitive and improving the quality of life. the research community has long expressed concern that the implementation of research programmes and the development of innovation are not proceeding as rapidly as expected due to extremely complex bureaucratic requirements. this is particularly a problem for smaller organisations such as smes, technology companies, small institutes, universities and research centres. indeed, there is a need to improve and streamline research funding and administration. currently, different rules and procedures apply to the different measures of the framework programme, which makes it very difficult for stakeholders to submit applications. i agree that the 8th research programme should focus on simplifying administrative procedures to ensure uniform interpretation and application of the rules and procedures used in all programmes and instruments.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, there is no innovation without research excellence. innovation in cutting-edge science and education is one of the engines of job creation and economic growth. if europe wants to create new products and services, it must invest in innovation. it is therefore important - as the rapporteur rightly points out - to help us simplify the mechanisms provided for in the research framework programmes. harmonization of rules and procedures and simplification of research funding and administration have long been needed. most smaller organisations (either new high-tech companies or universities and research centres) find it difficult to cope with the complexity of the current rules. according to this year's european innovation scoreboard, which compares the innovation performance of all eu member states, lithuania's indicators are below the eu-27 average. however, it has shown good progress and has great potential. lithuania has one of the fastest internet connections and mobile penetration rates in the world. it is therefore essential to continue investing in the development of technologies and to improve the implementation of national and european digital agendas. this will make europe more competitive and improve the quality of life.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the eu imposes the highest standards on producers in terms of food safety and quality, environmental protection, animal health and welfare and working conditions, which greatly increases costs for producers and reduces their competitiveness compared to third country producers. the eu livestock sector is facing serious problems such as rising costs due to rising fuel and fertiliser prices, high compliance costs with eu rules, increasing competition from imports from third countries, low prices for meat products from producers. to protect european producers and this important sector of the economy, the european commission must ensure that the cap is adequately financed after 2013 to guarantee the viability of all eu farmers, including livestock farmers, and to allow for fair competition.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, the food sector is one of the priority sectors for lithuania and the european union as a whole. we have already seen what can happen to energy supply and prices when the eu is dependent on imports. this cannot happen again in the food sector. livestock farms have been seriously threatened by recent increases in eu cereal prices, as well as by extreme climatic conditions and speculation. this means that certain eu sectors, such as the pigmeat sector (an important part of lithuania's agriculture), have been hit by feed prices, which account for up to 60% of total production costs. eu livestock production systems are important for maintaining livelihoods. lithuania may face serious consequences from the eu crisis in the livestock sector. the agricultural sector, which employs about 8% of our workforce, is an important component of our economy. cereals and wheat are the main crops. the eu-27 has more than 130 million livestock units. according to eu statistics, the number of cattle has fallen by 25% since 1990. further declines in the number of cattle in the eu could have a significant impact on production, which would disrupt the eu's food supply. such fluctuations can cause significant disruption in the livestock sector.
in the european union, we are declaring the principle of consumer awareness, in this case of patients, and we are seeking to make citizens partly responsible for their own health. but it's our responsibility as politicians to protect patients from misinformation, misinformation. that's what we're doing today. the situation in the european union is different as regards public access to information on medicines. it's not clear how information differs from advertising. i therefore support the parliament's position that there should be a clearer definition of the terms information and advertising. it is important that the patient receives reliable, objective information in his or her native language, not only for the benefit of professionals, but also in a way that is easily understood and accessible to the patient's needs. we need to protect not only patients but also doctors from hidden advertising, as their communication is crucial to the treatment process. we live in a time when there are no more borders, when we are free to move not only ourselves but also information, and we need to put in place safeguards to ensure the well-being of patients in the european union. so i congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work and hope that we all get healthier and have easier access to information.
in writing. - i voted for the solidarity fund for ireland. the rains in 2009 caused massive flooding that caused extensive damage to the agricultural sector, residential and commercial buildings, the road network and other infrastructure. aid for ireland was approved exceptionally as the flood damage was not in line with the requirements of the solidarity fund. climate change is increasing the number of natural disasters in europe and worldwide, leading to a rise in human deaths and large losses. it is therefore necessary for the european union to develop instruments to provide the necessary funding in a timely manner in the event of such disasters. in its resolution in march, the european parliament clearly stated its position that a new regulation on the european union solidarity fund was needed to deal more effectively with the problems caused by natural disasters. i believe that the revision of the regulation should aim at creating a stronger and more flexible instrument to respond more effectively to the new challenges of climate change and to provide urgent assistance to those affected by natural disasters.
in writing. − i agree to the extension of the agreement between the european union and ukraine on scientific and technological cooperation for a further period of five years. this decision will provide an opportunity for both the community and ukraine to continue, improve and strengthen cooperation in areas of common scientific and technological interest. the aim of this cooperation is to help ukraine to become more actively involved in the european research area. such cooperation will help ukraine to support the reform and restructuring of its scientific governance system and research institutions, thus facilitating the creation of a competitive economy and knowledge society. this decision should allow both ukraine and the european union to benefit mutually from their scientific and technical progress through specific research programmes. this decision will allow for the exchange of specific knowledge and the transfer of practical experience for the benefit of the scientific community, industry and citizens. i therefore strongly support the continued close cooperation between ukraine and the european union in this area.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. in its proposal, the commission proposes to extend the existing requirement for eu member states to apply a minimum standard vat rate of 15% for five years. the proposal will therefore have no impact on the tax rates. the commission proposes that the extension provision enters into force on 1 january 2011 and expires on 31 december 2015. in order to maintain the level of tariff harmonisation achieved, the commission has twice submitted proposals setting the range of the standard tariff to a minimum of 15% of the tariff and a maximum of 25% of the tariff. this range was established on the basis of the tariffs practically applied in the member states, where standard tariffs always ranged from 15 to 25%. in both cases, the council amended these tariff harmonisation proposals, leaving only the minimum tariff. i agree with the commission that the extension of the validity period should not only provide businesses with the necessary legal clarity but also allow for an additional assessment at eu level of the appropriate standard rate of vat. i believe that in the forthcoming green paper on the revision of the vat system, the commission should not only examine the specific issues of the standard vat rate and the other rates, but also consider the broader issue of a new vat strategy, including the scope and exemptions of vat.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the new vat strategy should pay particular attention to the reform of the vat rules, in line with principles that actively promote the objectives of the internal market. as the rapporteur points out, the current vat system is not only too complex in terms of tariffs but also lags behind the progress of the internal market. in january 2009, the lithuanian vat rate was increased from 18% to 19% and in september to 21%. it is important that future developments do not reduce the interest of foreign investors in lithuania. we have to offer favorable tax planning options. the new vat strategy should aim to reduce the administrative burden, remove tax barriers and improve the business environment, in particular for smes. the commission should consult the public and private sectors fully before taking a final decision. these consultations should address not only vat rates but also broader issues such as the ambition to set a maximum rate and alternatives to the structure and functioning of the vat system. i therefore look forward to the commission's green paper on the revision of the vat system.
in writing. − the european parliament resolution on the ecb's annual report 2009 notes that the requirements of the stability and growth pact have not always been respected in the past and that it is therefore necessary to ensure that the pact is applied more consistently and effectively in the member states in the future. i supported this resolution and believe that monetary union requires strict economic policy coordination and that the current gap in supervision of macroeconomic risk mitigation should be closed by setting up a european systemic risk board. i believe that the concept of the esrb issuing only warnings and recommendations and not taking any actual enforcement action does not allow for the principles of effective implementation and accountability or for the declaration of a state of emergency and that it is therefore necessary to give the board greater powers. it is particularly important to encourage the european commission not only to amend the regulation on credit rating agencies to give european credit rating agencies greater responsibility, but also to propose the creation of a european credit rating agency that would allow an objective assessment of the economic and financial situation of the member states.
in writing. − with civil and ethnic wars gradually replacing interstate wars to dominate the scene of 21st century conflicts, the line drawn between peacekeeping and peacebuilding is increasingly blurred. the changing nature of conflict calls for more extensive cooperation between civilian and military capabilities. the highly successful eu-led aceh monitoring mission (amm) from 2005 to 2006 serves as an important example and reminder of how civilian-military synergies can anchor peace and build confidence in an unstable environment in a timely and effective way. while the decommissioning team, dominated by military experts, monitored the rapid and successful disarmament process, the civilian team of amm worked to turn the process into a platform for further political dialogue and for both parties to credibly commit themselves to permanent peace. the application of civilian and military expertise should not be restricted by the technical labelling of the nature of operations, but should instead be decided on the basis of appropriateness and cost-efficiency. i voted in favour of this report because i think it plays a critical role in facilitating the further development of a non-aggressive but nevertheless coherent and competent face of eu foreign policies.
in writing. − the baltic sea region has been designated as a highly sensitive marine area by the international maritime organisation's marine environment protection committee. the baltic sea is thus one of the most valuable and sensitive marine ecosystems in the world. i voted in favour of the provisions in this document that the conditions for sustainable exploitation of fish stocks must be created without reducing trading standards. in order to effectively limit the high discards of juveniles and undersized commercial or non-commercial species, it is important to encourage the fishing industry to use selective fishing gear and not to fish in areas where there are high levels of undersized or non-commercial species. it is necessary to start a review of the discard system and i believe that this issue will be one of the most important in the 2011 review of the reform of the eu's common fisheries policy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it calls for restrictions on fishing for river plets and otters in the baltic sea region. it is therefore necessary to put an end to commercial fishing in that sea without delay. in the absence of sufficient reliable scientific data to estimate the catches of commercial fisheries, it is necessary to start documenting catches immediately and at the same time to carry out a comprehensive monitoring of the fishing vessels involved in these fisheries. i agree with the european parliament's position that action under the common fisheries policy is urgently needed to solve the problem of fishing in the baltic sea, bearing in mind that, from an environmental point of view, such fishing is damaging to the entire baltic sea ecosystem. it is necessary to take into account that the baltic sea is currently one of the most valuable marine ecosystems in the world and that the baltic sea region has been granted the status of a highly sensitive marine area. the baltic sea is also experiencing a changing climate, and different fish species are adapting to these changes. so their migration and nesting habits are also changing. i therefore support parliament's call for the commission to carry out a review of the baltic sea protected areas.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, next year the european parliament will be debating the reform of the common fisheries policy. i agree that this process must include measures to improve the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources and the efficient management of marine resources. as the international maritime organisation has pointed out, the baltic sea is an 'extremely sensitive area'. the baltic sea is one of the most sensitive marine ecosystems in the world, but we must also not forget the human side of the issue, which is not mentioned in the report. the fishing industry in lithuania has a particularly deep tradition. although the fisheries sector accounts for a relatively small share of lithuania's gdp, it is of great importance to the lithuanian economy. lithuania's fishing-dependent regions have experienced considerable economic and social difficulties in recent years due to declining fishing stocks and resource-saving policies. at present, it is increasingly difficult to earn a living in lithuania through fishing-related activities: the low wages make such work unattractive to young people. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the new rules on the management of fisheries resources in the baltic sea. this aid will help create new jobs, increase the value of fishery products, promote eco-tourism and more.
in writing. - i supported this report. the coal industry, although it accounts for a small share of the eu energy market, provides jobs for eu citizens working in it and economic development in sparsely populated and remote regions where coal-mining companies are mainly located. i voted in favour of the amendments extending the closure of uncompetitive coal mines until 2018, leaving the possibility of not closing mines if they are not competitive by the deadline. it is important to ensure that the closure of a non-competitive mine provides the long-term financing needed to ensure environmental protection and the restoration of the environment of the former mining sites. the closure of the mines, which are the only industries in certain regions, will leave many people without work. it is therefore necessary to ensure that they receive long-term support and various labour market measures, such as retraining, to enable them to re-enter the labour market. i therefore supported the european commission's proposal to provide such support until 2026.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, although the coal industry does not have a major impact on the lithuanian economy, this report is important for my country. the expiry of regulation (ec) no 1407/2002 will force some member states to close their coal mines immediately and to address the significant social and regional consequences of this closure. lithuanians are well aware of the problems encountered after such closures. the closure of the lithuanian ignalina nuclear power plant has led to the loss of business and jobs. it has also dealt a blow to our energy independence, and we must not forget that the european union is based on energy solidarity. lithuania and the baltic states are now energy islands cut off from the european gas and electricity networks. i was delighted to hear this month that the european commission is supporting the baltic sea energy market connections plan. i hope that projects such as the visagino nuclear power plant and the interconnection of the lithuanian and polish gas networks will receive financial support from the eu. this would be beneficial for all of europe. finally, it is important to take into account the safety of workers in coal mines and other energy industries. the recent disasters in chile and new zealand will not let us forget this.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which takes stock of the activities of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states (acp) and the eu joint parliamentary assembly in 2009. the activities of this assembly are of crucial importance in strengthening the democratic processes in these countries and i therefore support the observations made in the resolution on the need to involve parliaments closely in the democratic process and in national development strategies. i believe that the revision of the cotonou agreement will help to respond to the new developments that have taken place in the last decade since the first cotonou agreement was signed and will allow for an increased participation of national parliaments, civil society and the private sector in the political and economic life of those countries. i also support the proposal that the european development fund should be included in the eu budget in order to increase the coherence, transparency and effectiveness of development cooperation policy and to ensure proper control.
in writing. − the stockholm programme aims to create a european area of freedom, security and justice, protecting the fundamental rights of all citizens, including the freedom to conduct a business and promoting entrepreneurship in all sectors of the economy. since the conferral of competences on the european union in the fields of justice and home affairs and the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice, considerable progress has been made in the field of civil law and the harmonisation of provisions of private international law has been accelerated. this is very important as this branch of law is a key instrument in ensuring mutual recognition and respect for the various legal systems in existence. i believe that the action plan presented by the european commission is ambitious, but at the same time it is necessary to properly assess the effectiveness of the measures already in place and applied and their compliance with the objectives set in order to meet the needs of citizens, business representatives and legal practitioners.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the european parliament calls on the commission to ensure as effectively and as quickly as possible that the stockholm programme action plan genuinely addresses the needs of european citizens, in particular with regard to free movement throughout the european union, employment-related rights, business needs and equal opportunities for all. i would like to emphasise that the law of the european union must serve the interests of citizens, especially in family and civil law, and i am therefore pleased that since the european union was given competence in the fields of justice and home affairs and created an area of freedom, security and justice, tremendous progress has been made in the field of civil law. it should be noted that the stockholm programme aims to establish a european area of freedom, security and justice, in which the fundamental rights of all citizens are protected, including the freedom to conduct a business and the promotion of entrepreneurship in the various economic sectors. the european parliament therefore calls on the commission to initiate a wide-ranging debate involving all the actors concerned in this area, in particular judges and lawyers.
in fact, the work programme presented by the european commission in 2011 seems rather ambitious. and it is hoped that this document will become the document for the construction of a future europe that is more competitive, more united and more prosperous. however, there have also been a lot of ambitious documents in the past, ambitious plans, not all of which have been implemented. i remember very well how, a few years ago, those countries that are currently experiencing a major financial crisis were held up as an example of how financial and economic policy should be conducted. but today life has changed dramatically. i therefore fully support greater financial market surveillance, the creation of a common energy market and the establishment of the principles of greater state integration into our economy. only in this way can we make the european union more competitive in the future and provide our people with better jobs and incomes.
although the commission is committed to reviving job creation as soon as possible, unfortunately, the commission's programme for the coming year in the field of employment and social affairs does not contain any concrete proposals for the creation of new and quality jobs. as in last year's action programme, the commission is again proposing the same legislative initiatives on the posting of workers and working time and is further committed to improving the rights of migrant workers across the european union. but it's not enough. we are discussing the future of pensions in the european union intensively and one of the proposals is to extend the retirement age, but the commission is not making any specific proposals on the employment of older people. secondly, the economic and financial crisis has led to a significant increase in illegal work and the shadow economy. i really need some concrete suggestions on how we can work together to combat this scourge. and thirdly, in order to actually overcome poverty and really reduce the number of people in poverty in the european union, it is very desirable that the commission should present a directive on the minimum income as soon as possible.
in writing. the european union (eu) has made a very ambitious commitment to increase employment by up to 75% over the next decade. to make sure that this does not remain a mere paper matter, concrete measures are needed at both eu and national level. i believe it is particularly important to strengthen social partnership and social dialogue through concrete measures at all levels - eu, national, regional, sectoral and company. secondly, the skills and qualifications of workers need to be continuously improved to meet the needs of the labour market, which requires the conversion of the general, vocational and higher education system to the needs of the labour market. we hear all the time about the need for more jobs, but how do we create them? there must be a specific incentive mechanism, a certain tax incentive to create jobs for young people, for older people. it is also necessary to analyse the impact of microfinance measures on the labour market and to provide more flexibility in the use of the social fund. i strongly believe and hope that the new skills and jobs agenda will deliver concrete results for the people of our countries.
thank you, commissioner, for your reply, because all these initiatives are necessary, especially in view of the damage that young people have suffered during this difficult period. however, i would like to ask whether the commission does not think that a separate european union youth entrepreneurship and innovation programme for young people should be adopted to promote and support youth creativity and entrepreneurship? what would be your opinion on the availability of microcredit for young people? and should the procedure for recognising young companies not be regulated by law?
member of the commission. − the previous discussion extensively covered the open-ended contract, which i think is one of the practical solutions. in addition to that, we have seen during this year that the commission discussed the situation of young people and the impact of the crisis on youth employment, and ‘youth on the move’ has already addressed this in concrete terms. further initiatives are obviously possible. we will have to monitor the situation and work with the member states. during this phase, we have just gathered details of the national programmes developed by the member states, and after analysing these and looking at the practical solutions and undertakings they made we will be able to come forward with further suggestions. the most important one here, however, is to shape a macroeconomic environment in europe that will facilitate a continued robust recovery. one further point i would like to make is that young people have of course been among those who have suffered most from job losses and the lack of opportunities in the last couple of years. we are aware of the long-term risk of this which is not just as an immediate employment or social question. if we do not take action, it can have an impact on demography trends which are already extremely complicated, so in the next term, in a kind of alliance or cooperation with the hungarian presidency, we will discuss this in the context of a demographic discussion, because demography and family policies also have to be looked at in the same context as job security and income security for young people in europe.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. the member is dealing with the subject of renewable energy, and what are we doing to move closer to our common goals? we have had ambitious climate targets set by the european council for the last three years. one of these targets concerns renewable energy, which is expected to contribute 20% of the total final energy consumption of the european union in 2020. each eu member state must use its own resources to make its own contribution. if you take this 20% and divide it up into sectors, transport, heating, electricity and other, industry, agriculture, then the most important sector is electricity, i.e. the production of electricity. to reach 20% of total final energy consumption, we need up to 35% of renewable energy in the area of electricity conversion. if we want this to be done efficiently and if we want the price, the cost factor, to be acceptable to the consumer, then we must use the best sites in proportion to the work. each member state has different strengths and weaknesses to exploit: wind from the north sea, sun from the southern part of the european union, biogas in rural areas. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy supply is not affected by the crisis. the commission took this into account a few days ago. we have discussed and agreed on an energy infrastructure package which focuses on the integration and use of renewable energy sources. we have set binding renewable energy targets for each member state. in a few days, on 5 december this year, the deadline for transposition will expire and the commission will monitor the implementation of the directive to ensure that appropriate incentives are created and support measures are taken to achieve the objectives that have been committed. in doing so, member states should focus on how to create the best possible framework for the use of renewable energy. the european union directive requires, among other things, that the member states draw up a national action plan setting out the measures and the national targets, which are also concrete and binding, broken down by sectors such as transport, heat, electricity conversion and industry. the second is to remove administrative barriers in favour of renewable energy. thirdly, the construction sector is also heavily affected. forty percent of our final energy consumption is in the building sector in industrial, service and residential buildings. by the end of 2012, we want to develop qualification and certification schemes for the installation of renewable plants. the distribution and transmission networks must be prepared for the further development and growth of renewable energy and must ensure priority access for renewable energy. member states are flexible and free in terms of technology. they are free to choose which renewable energy sources they use to achieve their binding targets. and we, the commission, with the funds from the seventh framework programme for research which you - the parliament - have made available to us, are supporting innovations and projects aimed at researching, developing and bringing to market the technologies for renewable energies. the commission then allocated funds from the european economic recovery programme for three years in those years specifically for specific renewable energy projects, namely for the development of offshore wind energy. i would like to stress, with regard to the new member states, that our cohesion programmes and funding for renewable energy are also available. renewable energy is a high priority in our energy and climate protection policies, but also in reducing our dependence on fossil fuel imports. only by working together will we be able to achieve our ambitious climate goals and also strengthen europe's competitiveness. i am counting on a close partnership with our member states in the use of their different energy resources.
i thank you, commissioner, for your clear and convincing answer. i think the commission has done a great deal to achieve these objectives. i think it would be possible to reach out to the public even more and to get the mass media to support this cause, which is not the case in my country, lithuania, for example. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. last question: which countries do you think are quite successful in meeting the 2020 targets and which ones are not?
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. we will be presenting our proposal on energy efficiency in a few weeks time to you, to parliament, to the council and to the member states, on how we want to achieve the 20% increase in energy efficiency. if you take the three targets you have set for us, 20% less co2 emissions, i can say that we are well on our way to that target. and i'm sure that if we continue to make the effort, in 10 years we will have reached, if not exceeded, the 20% reduction in co2 in any case. we are also on the right track with 20% renewable energy, with different levels of progress in the member states. there were member states which were already far ahead of the reference year. austria, for example, had a 23 per cent share of renewable energy five years ago and is on track to reach 34 per cent in 2020. in contrast, for example, the uk has only had 1.3%, or malta even 0%, and basically start from there. the most encouraging results are sweden, which aims at 49%, finland, which aims at 38%, portugal, which aims at 38%, and the baltic states, with targets of 25, 40 and 23%, which are also successful and are moving in this important direction above the european average. i am most concerned about the 20% target we must achieve in energy efficiency, that is, in intelligent energy saving and in the targeting of energy use. i look forward to discussing this with parliament in the first quarter of next year when our proposal for the implementation of the 20% increase in energy efficiency can be presented to you. they went to the media. in fact, on the subject of renewable energy and consumers, industry and the investor, both the technology investor and the financial investor, can do even more. and if you take this as a suggestion, i plan to visit the three baltic states next spring. i am also prepared to attend a conference of interested representatives of the media and the banks and companies you propose to me, in order to have the modest means i have in your country to gain the necessary publicity and the opportunities to use programmes and receive co-financing. the question then is: what do i think of a european energy network? i want to answer that very frankly. if you look at the transport infrastructure in europe: the roads, the motorways, the railways, our european airspace with its regional airports, large and small, our sea ports from genoa and marseille to hamburg and rotterdam. our terminals for lng and for oil. in the mediterranean, the black sea, the baltic, the baltic sea and the north sea, the atlantic. and if you take our digital transportation capabilities for information, communication and navigation, mobile and so on. we are therefore going to have to make a very long list of the proposals that we have put forward. they can transport colour television sets, pigs' bellies, canned goods, goods and merchandise from portugal to latvia, from holland to greece; we can transport workers and tourists; we can transport information and financial services; gas and electricity are still more common in the 19th century principalities. that means the integration of the markets, the baltic states, finland with central europe, the integration of greece, even before serbia and croatia are members of the european union. the bridges, the interconnectors for transporting electricity from spain to france, to germany, and vice versa. we need financial and legislative efforts now, in the next two decades, to make our transportation network for electricity and for gas equal in quality and capacity to our road and rail networks and our airspace for goods and goods and people with the goal of free movement. otherwise we will not have security of supply, we will not have solidarity in an emergency, we will not be able to exchange storage capacity, we will not be able to install renewable energy in the best locations and bring electricity to the cities that need it, we will not have the competition that consumers want, and we will not have the internal market which has always been a foundation of the european community and which must also be put into practice in the field of electricity and gas. that is why i am in favour of a remarkable evolution in favour of transport networks for electricity, gas and also for oil.
member of the commission. − as you are aware, social policy, including policy relating to people with disabilities, is primarily a national responsibility. however, stepping up support for disadvantaged groups, and in particular for people with disabilities, including people living in institutions, is a key strand for action under the european social fund. according to some estimates, people with disabilities account for at least 16% of the eu working-age population, but only 40% of people with disabilities are employed. the commission encourages a shift from institutional to community-based care and is working closely with the member states, and in particular the managing authorities of the esf and the erdf and ngos in this field. in 2009 the commission published a report by an ad hoc expert group on the switchover from institutional to community-based care. in line with the principle of shared management, the member states are responsible for selecting operations for financing under the structural funds. in the current programming period the european social and regional development funds are supporting some de-institutionalisation schemes and the switch-over from residential care to community-based services. this is particularly true in certain member states that joined the eu after 2004. thus projects are being financed in bulgaria and slovakia. as you know, the commission is currently working on new provisions on the structural funds for the post-2013 period and will put forward proposals in 2011. to step up the fight against discrimination and promote social inclusion of people with disabilities, future operational programmes may, for example, be required to identify the groups at risk of discrimination and exclusion. the commission will explore the role that national equality bodies could play and may consider stricter requirements on member states’ reporting of measures to combat discrimination, implemented with support from the structural funds. in addition, one of the aims of the european disability strategy for 2010 to 2020, which the commission adopted on 15 november, is to give impetus to member states’ efforts to ease the transition from institutional to community-based care. the strategy seeks to do this by identifying good practice in using the structural funds to encourage people to live independently and in the community and aims to develop awareness-raising initiatives that target structural fund managing bodies at eu and national level. for example, a toolkit on how to use the structural funds to support the development of community-based services will be developed for the managing authorities.
thank you, commissioner, for your reply. i would like to congratulate the european commission for presenting just this month the new european disability strategy 2010-2020. but my question is: when and what specific programmes does the commission intend to develop on the basis of this strategy to facilitate the entry of disabled people into the labour market or to adapt the environment and infrastructure to them?
it is indeed very good that we are starting to talk about very important things today, namely the joint management of the future economy. i think we will also be discussing a possible common tax system in the near future. we also see the great negative impact of the stronger euro today and many other things. i'm disappointed today that a bank test was conducted six months ago and the results were completely unconfirmed. this shows that we are once again lacking reliable information in the european union. and if we don't have that, we can't find ways to get out of a pretty complicated situation. i would therefore like to conclude by asking the european commission to be much more active in making its proposals in the future, because the situation is complex, it will require enormous efforts, enormous financial resources and perhaps a completely different understanding of economic, financial and other controls.
electronic equipment sooner or later becomes waste, which unfortunately still contains certain hazardous substances. member states sometimes have difficulty dealing with such e-waste and it is therefore necessary to gradually move towards the so-called 'prevention rather than cure' principle. by aligning chemicals through reach with the rohs directive, we are at least aligning other hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. this does not, of course, harmonise the whole system and leaves some room for interpretation by the member states, but at least it avoids the large differences between member states that currently exist. the restriction of the use of certain dangerous substances in electronic equipment and the measures adopted today must not go beyond two limits. first, they must not create disproportionate difficulties for small businesses. secondly, the list of prohibited substances should not hinder technological development. we should not be prejudiced against the currently experimental materials that will revolutionize the future of technology and electronics.
in writing. − the european commission is initiating discussions on the revision of the european neighbourhood policy to outline the future relationship between the eu and its neighbours to the south and east. the eu's eastern partnership initiative should aim at promoting common european values, including the functioning of democratic institutions and respect for human rights and freedoms. i supported this communication, which sets out the general principles for moldova's participation in community programmes and agencies. i believe that such a memorandum of understanding would enable moldova to participate or to participate more actively in certain community programmes, which would allow for greater contacts in the fields of culture, education, environment, technology and science and for the strengthening of political relations. in order to achieve the objectives of political stability and democratic development, moldova needs to implement the european neighbourhood action plan and reforms.
in writing. − i agree with the protocol setting out the general principles for the participation of moldova in community programmes and agencies. this opens up new opportunities for the country to develop closer links with eu countries in the fields of culture, education, environment, technology and science. i am confident that the implementation of the eastern partnership and the negotiation of a new association agreement will strengthen the political relations between the eu and moldova. political stability and democratic development in moldova are essential for full participation in community programmes and it is therefore essential that the prolonged period of unrest and instability following the parliamentary elections comes to an end.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, the european union, including new member states such as lithuania, has a responsibility to respect the interests of our eastern neighbours. strengthening eu-moldova cooperation and involving moldova in community programmes will help bring the country closer to eu standards and norms. the partnership agreement would allow for new close links between the eu and moldovan citizens in the fields of culture, education and technology. it is particularly important that the eu demonstrate to moldovan youth the benefits of future eu membership. last year, 19 per cent of moldova's gdp was generated by moldovan expatriates working in other european countries, sometimes illegally. poverty, corruption, trafficking in human beings - these problems must be tackled together. moldova, as a country preparing for eu membership, faces a number of serious structural reforms. the eu must continue to support moldova in these efforts. it is essential to strengthen democracy and the rule of law. the transnistrian conflict is not only a problem for europe, but also an opportunity for the eu to work more closely with moldova, russia and ukraine. we can't ignore that. i hope that the elections on 28 november will allow moldova to move forward.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important resolution, which aims to improve patient information about medicines for which they are prescribed. the current legal framework and situation in europe regarding access to information on prescription medicines for human use is rather problematic. different interpretations of the directive in the member states mean that patients in different parts of europe have different access to high-quality and comprehensive information on medicines. in some countries, patients are denied even basic information about prescription medicines. given the different interpretations of the directive in the member states, i believe that the provisions need to be made clearer so that all eu citizens have access to the information they need about medicines. the amendments adopted by the european parliament also ensure that information on prescription medicines is only provided to the public through specific communication channels, including specialised and certified websites, in the interests of patients and in order to limit the advertising possibilities of pharmaceutical companies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which pursues the eu's very important objective of ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market for medicines for human use and better protecting the health of eu citizens. the document adopted today will make it possible to provide for a clear system of public information for distributors of prescription medicines in order to encourage the reasonable use of such medicines and to ensure that the legal prohibition of direct-to-consumer advertising of prescription medicines remains in place. the european parliament has proposed that the european union will have a database of medicinal products in all the official languages of the union, accessible to the public, while ensuring that it is updated and administered independently of the business interests of pharmaceutical companies. the creation of a database will make it easier for non-specialists to search for and understand information.
in writing. - i supported this report. some 9.3 million tonnes of electrical and electronic equipment (eee) are sold in the eu alone each year, the bulk of which are large household appliances and information technology and telecommunications equipment. as the market expands and new innovations emerge, equipment is replaced more quickly, leading to a rapid increase in the flow of waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee). it is estimated that the amount of waste eee may increase to 12,3 million tonnes by 2020. waste eee contains some hazardous substances which, especially if handled improperly, may enter the environment and cause damage to human health and the environment. the first version of the dangerous substances directive did not address these problems. i support the suggestions in the document that the european commission should strengthen the prevention of the use of harmful substances and periodically examine the prohibition of other hazardous substances and their replacement by more environmentally friendly alternative materials or technologies that ensure an adequate level of protection of people and the environment.
in writing. − the fight against counterfeiting is a key element of the eu's political strategy, and aims to ensure fairness, a level playing field for our producers, the maintenance of employment for our citizens and respect for the rule of law. with the advent of digital technologies, counterfeiting has become uncontrollable on an international scale, and international cooperation is the key tool to combat this problem. i supported this resolution, which sets out the european parliament's aims and priorities in the multilateral negotiations on an anti-counterfeiting trade agreement, which aims to establish for the first time a comprehensive international framework to combat intellectual property infringements more effectively. i believe it is important to ensure that measures to protect intellectual property rights do not impede innovation and competition, undermine the limitations of such property rights and the protection of personal data, restrict the free flow of information or unduly impede legitimate trade.
in fact, i think that any country in the european union is currently experiencing the greatest headache with its energy and i really want to thank the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs first of all for the fact that virtually all of us, representatives of all the countries, had the opportunity to put forward our proposals and that, as a result of the clever compromises, a very good document was actually produced. i also think it's not so much about having ambitious plans as it is about having realistic plans, meaning real infrastructure, connections, real choice for people, which energy suppliers to buy energy from and, of course, a real market price. if we do that, i think we'll have done a very, very good job. i think that in the future we should also have greater control over the wishes and interests of the member states, because if we are to create a common energy market, those interests must be reconciled. i would also like to thank you, commissioner, for your timely response to the signing of certain agreements and for the implementation of the principle of solidarity at european union level.
i congratulate the rapporteurs and thank the commissioner for his goodwill towards the energy strategy and policy. we have ambitious goals to mitigate the climate change process. when it comes to the environment, energy can be a partner, but it can also be an enemy. in the european union, we are dependent on fossil fuels for energy. as we become increasingly dependent on third countries for its resources, it is important not only to develop renewable energy but also to invest in research into energy efficiency. the last session we discussed the allocation of additional funds for energy under the european economic recovery plan. it may be appropriate to have the possibility to allocate funds from other financial mechanisms of the european union to energy efficiency in general. renewable energy is important to us not only for climate change but also for energy security. the bilateral agreements of some countries on projects such as nord stream raise concerns not only about environmental issues but also about the principles of solidarity, and therefore transparency is needed in this area.
the world will soon be hearing good news or, as has been the case recently, bad news about climate change again, this time from cancun. while most scientists say that the time left for mankind to stop climate change is shrinking, the camp of the negative and the passive is not diminishing. the european union has been and should remain the driving force behind progress in the negotiations. the eu should better coordinate the positions of the member states at eu level. it's also important to do the homework, to prove that sustainable economic development, an environmentally friendly lifestyle is possible. only by exchanging ourselves can we invite others to follow our example. i would strongly support a unilateral eu move to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 30% by 2020. it is particularly important that cancun takes account of the newly formulated principle of climate justice. if we fail to stop or at least limit climate change, the increasingly hot planet will burn the poorest countries and the poorest people first. it seems that some people, companies and governments are using the old but modernized phrase: after me, after i've made a huge profit, even if it's a flood. this attitude must not win in cancún.
the compromise resolution on ukraine is indeed very important for the people of ukraine, but let us not forget that it is also very important for the people of the european union, because ukraine is an important partner for us, especially in the context of our neighbourhood policy with eastern europe. it is therefore of the utmost importance for us to continue to pursue close cooperation, particularly in the area of visa regimes. both the commission and the council should therefore draw up an action plan for the introduction of visa-free travel as soon as possible. we also need to agree on a free trade agreement as soon as possible. the implementation of constitutional reforms is of course crucial for ukraine's long-term political stability both at home and with its neighbours, but we - the european union and its institutions - must realise that this takes time and that we must spend all our time not criticizing but helping ukraine to integrate into our family.
ukraine has been a clear leader in comparison with our other eastern neighbours in recent times. i am talking about the application of european standards, economic and legal reforms, the internal political process. of course, the events of the last year in this country are worrying, and so i think we simply have to express our concern to our partner ukraine about these abuses that we see, the special powers that have been given to the ukrainian security service, the measures that the security service has taken in trying to intimidate ngos, to control the ukrainian press. i've said that, and i've got something else to say. we must support the process of ukrainian european integration. we can use the carrot and stick policy, but there has to be more cake. we must bring ukraine closer to the european union, not push it further. i believe that ukraine's membership of the european union is also our strategic objective and we must find the appropriate means to achieve that objective.
i thank the ombudsman for his report. indeed, the role of the european ombudsman is particularly important in helping citizens to understand the problems they face and in improving the transparency and accountability of the institutions. the ombudsman's aim is to make decisions by the institutions of the european union accessible to citizens, since citizens must be able to obtain the information they want in order to have confidence in the institutions' ability to protect their rights in the event of discrimination, abuse of power, failure to respond in time to enquiries or a general refusal to provide information. the commission receives many complaints about improper work and it is therefore essential that the commission takes action to avoid delays in responding to requests for access to documents, since the proper application of european union legislation has a direct impact on the daily lives of citizens, on the exercise of their rights. in addition, the poor application of legislation leads to a loss of confidence in the institutions of the european union and generates additional costs.
i voted in favour of this resolution on the negotiation of the 2011 budget. the failure of last week's reconciliation meeting between the european parliament and the council has caused great concern throughout the european union. it is a pity that the lisbon treaty has not yet become a binding document for some. if no agreement is reached on the budget and other related issues by the end of the year, the consequences would be very serious. the creation of a european external action service, the three new european union financial institutions control bodies, would be very difficult due to lack of funding. the cohesion policy, which is one of the most important in the european union, would also not be properly implemented due to lack of funds. i am no longer talking about the europe 2020 strategy, the galileo programme, or what would happen to them. i therefore believe that the constructive and compromise-seeking attitude of the european parliament once again shows that the european parliament is indeed acting responsibly in the context of the economic and financial crisis.
mr president, i voted in favour of the resolution. as parliament’s rapporteur on the annual report on human rights in the world this year, i can only reiterate the importance of human rights clauses and standards in international trade agreements. trade can play an important part in ensuring not only civil and political rights, but also economic and social ones. just think about the role that trade-related assistance programmes can play in ensuring development in many poor countries around the world. we must bear in mind that human rights clauses are included in all the bilateral trade agreements the eu makes and also in its gsp and gsp+ regimes with developing countries. we should make these clauses and conditionality more robust and closely monitor their implementation. we should consider conducting a human rights assessment of non-eu countries that engage in trade relations with the eu and granting trade preferences to countries that have ratified and effectively implemented key international conventions on sustainable development, social rights and good governance.
i voted in favour of this very important resolution because we cannot ignore the fact that violence against women is on the increase. this is particularly true in conflict and war zones. i agree that the implementation of un security council resolution 1325, the first resolution to address the disproportionate and specific impact of armed conflict on women, should be given due attention at the highest level in the european union. this should be a particularly important theme in the review of the european union's human rights policy in the development of comprehensive national human rights strategies, in the evaluation of the european union guidelines on violence against women and girls, as well as the eu guidelines on children and armed conflict and combating all forms of discrimination against them. i support the call to provide the necessary funding to combat violence against women, to support women's participation in peace, security and reconciliation processes.
mr president, i voted in favour of this important document. it contributes in a constructive way to the debate we are having in europe on a credible common energy strategy. energy security is certainly one of the key aspects of that strategy. the eu must foster a common – if not single – energy policy. europe-wide regulators and institutions should be given a greater role. the european commission must play a stronger role in efforts to develop alternative energy routes, first of all from azerbaijan and central asia, and from north africa and other countries as well. europe must further invest in lng terminals and help do the same for its newest members. other measures, such as improving energy efficiency, investing in nuclear energy and creating incentives for renewable energy technologies, are also required. an essential piece in the puzzle is the liberalisation of the internal eu energy market. that is why we should wholeheartedly support the initiative of president buzek and the former president of the commission, jacques delors, to establish a european energy community.
i voted in favour of this report on the european union's energy strategy, which covers a number of important subjects and important issues, and which deals with renewable energy, research, innovation, reducing pollution and, of course, improving energy security. i particularly support the european parliament's view that energy networks, even if they are commercial in nature, should be regulated by transparent crossborder agreements which do not prejudice the interests of the member states. the bilateral agreements and projects undertaken by some countries, such as the nord stream pipeline, raise doubts not only in environmental terms but also in the principle of common solidarity. the principle of solidarity between member states, as declared in the treaties of the european union, is in essence a matter of principle. for this reason, i am in favour of external pipelines and other energy networks entering the territory of the european union being governed only by transparent intergovernmental agreements concluded in strict compliance with european union law. such pipelines should be subject to the rules of the internal market of the european union, including those governing the access of third parties to the market.
mr president, finally we have a resolution on ukraine adopted by our parliament. certainly we were concerned about the recent developments in the country. if ukraine is our strategic partner, then my understanding is that it is our duty to express our concern about the shortcomings we see – for instance, the excessive powers granted to the ukraine security services and the measures they have taken to intimidate ngos operating in that country and to control the ukrainian media. we are also concerned at the political process as a whole, including the inability of the opposition parties to participate in the elections without restrictions and discrimination. on the other hand, we should continue to support ukraine’s european integration prospects and to use more carrots than sticks in trying to draw ukraine closer to europe – and not further away from it – and to do everything in our power to achieve this strategic goal of ours.
in writing. - i supported this resolution. the treaty of lisbon brought about a number of important changes in various areas and gave new powers to the european parliament. the failure to reach agreement with the council of the european union on the 2011 budget was the first serious attempt by the european parliament to use its powers. the european parliament is ready to reach an agreement as soon as possible so that the eu can start 2011 with an adopted budget and without delaying the financing of important areas and projects. however, the agreement with the council must identify the european parliament's requirements and agree on certain flexibility measures which should allow for the adequate financing of policies in 2011 and beyond in relation to the new competences conferred under the treaty of lisbon and the europe 2020 strategy. the european commission must commit to submit proposals for new eu own resources and the council must agree on a revision of the financial structure. the three institutions must also agree on a method of cooperation that includes the involvement of the ep in the negotiations on the future multiannual financial framework. the european parliament must comply with its own demands, which will not only determine the future of the eu budget, but also set a precedent for the expansion of the influence of the only directly elected institution in the european union's governing body.
in writing. - i support this report. there is an increasing number of cases of distortions of competition and the risk of environmental and social dumping in international trade. this is to the detriment of companies and workers in the eu, who, unlike their trading partners established outside the eu, are required to adhere to higher social, environmental and tax standards. therefore, eu bilateral and multilateral agreements should require compliance with the above requirements for all companies, not only those established in the eu. the implementation of eu trade agreements also requires transparency and strict procurement requirements to combat illicit capital flows. to achieve these objectives, the eu should actively cooperate with international partners in the field of trade the world trade organisation, the international labour organisation, the united nations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is nevertheless essential to ensure a balance between trade law and fundamental human rights and to strengthen the dialogue between the main international organisations, in particular the international labour organisation and the world trade organisation. moreover, the inclusion of human rights provisions and social and environmental standards in trade agreements can benefit international trade agreements in order to maintain political and social stability while facilitating trade itself. it should be noted that european industrial and commercial companies are required to strictly comply with social and environmental protection rules. i agree with the european parliament's position that if the european union is to comply with binding standards, it must also require the same from its trading partners, in particular from emerging economies, and promote quality and sustainability requirements, in particular for food products entering its territory, in order to protect fair and equitable trade. i would like to stress that in order to strengthen human rights and social policy in international trade, it is necessary to require that all future trade agreements include a prohibition on the use of child labour, in particular in the extraction and processing of natural stone.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it should not be forgotten that european industrial and commercial companies must strictly respect social and environmental protection rules. if the european union respects binding standards, it must also require the same from its trading partners, especially from emerging economies, and promote quality and sustainability requirements, in particular for food products entering its territory, in order to protect fair and equitable trade. the importance of improving access to green goods and technologies for sustainable development purposes, the need to complete as soon as possible negotiations on the reduction or elimination of tariff and non-tariff barriers to green goods and services, in order to promote new forms of employment policies, the creation of jobs that meet the standards of decent work in the octs and the growth potential of european industry and small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. − the european ombudsman safeguards the right of eu citizens, as enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights, to have their affairs handled impartially, fairly and in the shortest possible time by the union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. the treaty of lisbon strengthened the democratic legitimacy of the ombudsman, since he is elected by the european parliament, and extended his mandate to cover the common foreign and security policy and the activities of the european council. i voted in favour of this resolution because i am positive about the results of the 2009 work. in 2009, the average time taken to deal with complaints was reduced by four months, and more than half of the infringement procedures initiated ended in amicable settlements. this shows that the ombudsman cooperates effectively with the eu institutions. i believe that it is necessary to increase the trust of eu citizens in the eu and its institutions, and above all to ensure that citizens have full access to the information they need and to build confidence in the ability of the eu institutions to defend their rights.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the ombudsman's work helps the european institutions to make transparent decisions that are accessible to all citizens and legal persons. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon has strengthened the democratic legitimacy of the ombudsman, since he is elected by parliament, and extended his mandate to include the common foreign and security policy and the activities of the european council. transparency, access to information and respect for the right to good administration are necessary preconditions for citizens to have confidence in the ability of the institutions to protect their rights. the most frequent allegations of maladministration related to a lack of transparency. it is therefore essential to respond promptly and fully to citizens' enquiries, complaints and petitions. the european institutions and bodies must provide citizens with the necessary information. i am pleased that the european ombudsman cooperates with other ombudsmen and similar bodies in the member states at national, regional and local levels.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the special report of the european ombudsman, as it draws attention to the fact that the ombudsman has successfully investigated on his own initiative the rules applied by the commission to citizens' requests for access to documents relating to infringement procedures. complaints by eu citizens are an important source of information on possible breaches of european union law. in particular, citizens have complained about the commission's maladministration. it is therefore essential that the commission take action to avoid delaying the response to requests for access to documents. efforts should be made to strengthen cooperation with the european parliament's committee on petitions and to have a regular exchange of information with the ombudsman. the european parliament should be kept informed of the inquiries carried out by the ombudsman and of the results obtained. the commission should adopt a more open and dynamic approach to information on infringement procedures.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the treaty on european union establishes the responsibility of the member states for the application of eu law and gives the commission, as guardian of the treaties, the power and responsibility to ensure that the law is correctly applied. the scope of the eu acquis and the size of the eu raise many questions and concerns for citizens, civil society interest groups and businesses. in order to ensure that the law is correctly understood and applied, the 'eu pilot' programme was launched in 2008 to create a confidential online database for the exchange of correspondence between commission services and member states' institutions to monitor the implementation of eu law and to initiate cases. i agree with the view expressed in the resolution that this initiative is an appropriate response to the need for cooperation between all eu institutions in order to create a well-functioning system that works for the benefit of citizens. i believe that the european parliament, as the institution representing the eu citizens, should be given access to this database in order to monitor how the commission is fulfilling its role as guardian of the treaties.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the current annual reports of the commission on the monitoring of the application of european union law do not provide citizens or other institutions with sufficient information on the actual situation of the application of european union law. the commission's summary of the monitoring report on the application of the law focuses more on the transposition of the provisions of the law than on their actual application. the commission shall only provide references to proceedings initiated against member states which have not transposed provisions of european union law into their national legal system. citizens and the european parliament should therefore be informed when the commission initiates infringement proceedings relating to the unlawful transposition of provisions of union law into national law and should be aware of the details of those infringements. the lisbon treaty also enshrines the right of citizens to participate in shaping the legislative agenda and to help ensure the application of and compliance with european union law and the transparency and credibility of the related procedures.
in writing. − broadcast media are one of the main sources of information available to eu citizens in the member states and therefore an important factor in shaping people's values and opinions. the audiovisual environment of the european union is exceptional, based on a balance between public and commercial broadcasters, which ensures a diversity of freely available programmes and promotes media pluralism, cultural and linguistic diversity, editorial competition and freedom of expression. i voted in favour of this resolution because the european parliament supports the objective of maintaining an independent, strong and viable public service broadcasting, adapting it to the requirements of the digital era and facilitating the switchover of consumers from analogue to digital television. i believe that member states should do more to tackle the digital divide and ensure that all people in all regions have equal access to public service broadcasting.
in writing. − a free and independent media is one of the main pillars of democracy. i voted in favour of this report because i agree that public service broadcasters, free from political pressure and commercial interests, are a particularly important part of this system. sadly, the current trends are not encouraging. in some countries, public service broadcasters are facing increasing political pressure, with funding for a broadcaster becoming dependent on the political party that comes to power. elsewhere, broadcasters are increasingly influenced by corporate structures. i agree with the position that culture and media will always be a matter for the states. but i think the eu institutions could also play a significant role. they could help to exchange examples of good practice and, in some cases, to highlight and condemn bad practice. in these times of economic crisis, public service broadcasters should make better use of the eib's preferential loans to modernise infrastructure, raise the profile of public service broadcasters and help them adapt to the challenges of the 21st century.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because of the need to give the utmost attention to the safety of women in peacekeeping missions and in military conflicts. i would like to stress that the european union's human rights policy should be reconsidered when developing a comprehensive national human rights strategy and when assessing the european union guidelines on violence against women and girls and the european union guidelines on children and armed conflict and combating all forms of discrimination against them. it should be noted that some of the widespread and systematic acts of rape and sexual slavery are recognised as crimes against humanity and war crimes under the geneva convention. furthermore, rape is now also recognized as part of genocide when it is committed with the intent to destroy, in whole or in part, a particular group of people. the european union must therefore take concrete action to end the impunity for sexual violence against women and children. it is also necessary to establish a code of conduct for european union personnel on military and civilian missions, which would prohibit sexual exploitation as unjustified and criminal behaviour.
in writing. − 2010 is the european year of biodiversity, to draw attention to the threats to biodiversity around the world. the beekeeping sector, which is an important source of employment and income in rural areas, is also threatened by recent increases in bee mortality and disease. i voted in favour of this resolution, in which the european parliament calls on the commission to fund specific research to improve knowledge and understanding of the factors affecting bee health. the resolution observed that the presence of toxins in genetically modified crops or in pollen may affect bee disease and mortality. given the dependence of european cereals, fruit and vegetable crops on bee pollination, these crops and agriculture in general are at high risk of various diseases. i believe that in the face of such doubts, the european commission must urgently carry out an independent study assessing the environmental and species-specific effects of the spread of genetically modified crops and toxins and ensure that such data are made public.
in writing. − i have supported this report because the beekeeping sector plays a strategic role in society by providing public services with environmental value. today, the decline of pollinating insects, including bees, is a cause for concern. 84% of plant species and 76% of food production in europe depend on bee pollination, and the economic importance of this is far greater than the value of honey produced by honeybees. 40% of the european honey market is dependent on imports and the opening of the eu market to honey from third countries has put beekeepers across the eu at a competitive disadvantage. it is therefore necessary to support the further development of european beekeeping, contributing to the conservation of biodiversity. it is important to adopt a comprehensive and sustainable approach, including aspects such as rural development, climate change and biodiversity, in particular by promoting measures supporting the maintenance and development of flowering areas. it is also important to support the european beekeeping sector more broadly and consistently through additional instruments under the future cap, including those that help to promote biodiversity, mitigate the impact of climate change, preserve the traditional national and cultural heritage that provides jobs for many european families, protect and improve the quality and the proper functioning of the beekeeping market.
in writing. - i supported this important document. the separate energy chapter in the lisbon treaty now provides a solid legal basis for developing energy initiatives based on sustainability, security of supply, interconnection and solidarity. there are significant delays or unfinished implementation problems in the union in the field of energy legislation, which the commission has not taken a strong leadership role in addressing in order to address these shortcomings. the domestic energy sector will require significant investments in new power plants, connections and transmission networks over the next decade, given that these investments will create a longer-term mix of energy types that will contribute to the creation of a sustainable and clean energy market. it is very important that energy projects have clear multiannual funding, so that the baltic sea region is also integrated into the eu's single energy market and we pay for energy resources at the same level as other eu countries.
in writing. − i have endorsed this report and i would like to thank the rapporteurs, the shadow rapporteurs, for the first energy strategy since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. the strategy reflects the main challenges of energy solidarity and security of energy supply. first, member states must implement the legislation already adopted in the field of energy. secondly, a common energy market must be created, as well as a market for renewable energy sources. thirdly, the trans-european energy infrastructure must be renewed and modernised. the eu must therefore overcome all administrative and financial obstacles, and the interests of its members must be harmonized and mutually supportive. the same rules must apply to all projects, whether the yamal pipeline or the nordstream pipeline. as we know, the eu is increasingly dependent on oil and gas suppliers. monopoly costs eastern european member states a lot there is no competition, consumer rights are not protected, the common market cannot be created. our dependence on fossil fuels, whose resources are dwindling, makes it imperative to develop not only renewable energy but also to invest in energy efficiency, while reducing climate change. a major weakness of current eu energy policy is the inability to channel eu funds into an area which, despite the recession, remains one of the top priorities of european governments, citizens and the public. the consumer and the protection of his interests must be at the heart of energy policy, and the eu must strive to ensure favourable energy prices for consumers and businesses.
in writing. - i supported this resolution. the copenhagen climate change conference failed to reach specific commitments. further negotiations in germany and china have also failed to produce the expected results, raising hopes for a conference in cancún to agree on key decisions a comprehensive international agreement on action beyond 2012, in line with the latest scientific findings and the intention to halt global warming by 2020 and to achieve a global warming of no more than 2 degrees celsius by 2050 compared to 1990 levels. i support the position expressed in the resolution that the european union must play a leading role in the climate change negotiations and actively contribute to the concrete results of the cancún climate change conference. the european union is the only country that has adopted binding climate change mitigation targets and is going to commit to even higher ones, and it must be in the interest of the eu to see other countries commit to them, as the eu's economic growth and competitiveness depend on it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the european union must take a leading role in the climate change negotiations, because it is necessary to restore confidence in international climate change negotiations after the disappointing results of the copenhagen climate change conference. i support the european parliament's call for concrete measures to stop deforestation and its proposal to create an efficient global market for trading in emission allowances. i would like to stress that more efforts must be made to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by natural means, as this would encourage the conservation of biodiversity. i hope that cancun will agree on fundamental solutions that are in line with the latest scientific discoveries, so as to ensure the survival of all countries, peoples and ecosystems. it is also essential that the climate change conference takes key decisions on financing, in particular on the added value of financing adaptation, forestry, resource efficiency, technology transfer, monitoring, settlement and verification. it is also essential to ensure full transparency and strong political commitments to provide funding urgently.
in writing. − climate change is one of the biggest environmental problems of our time, and is also the cause of many natural disasters. we have already committed ourselves to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. sadly, it seems that we may not be able to reach our goals. on the other hand, no targets will be achieved unless the eu is joined by the world's major polluters. it is therefore irresponsible to set even higher targets before achieving less ambitious ones. on the other hand, if we start to pursue higher goals, we will corner ourselves. the eu industry, having to comply with stricter requirements, will not be able to compete on equal terms with the industry of countries that have not set such strict requirements. so while setting ambitious targets makes us leaders in the fight against climate change, it does not contribute to the eu's goal of becoming the most competitive region in the world. i voted against the final document because i am convinced that the eu can lead in reducing climate change and we all recognise our commitments to nature, but we must keep our targets as realistic as possible and move towards them in a consistent manner.
in writing. - i support this resolution. after more than 30 years, the process of decolonisation in western sahara remains unfinished. the situation of human rights, the violence in the civilian camp and the continuing conflict and its consequences for the entire region are of concern. i share the concern expressed in the resolution about the attacks on freedom of the press and information, which have also affected many european journalists. it is therefore necessary to seek an independent international investigation by the united nations to clarify the causes of civilian deaths and disappearances. it is also important to establish a human rights monitoring mechanism, to release human rights defenders and to allow free access to the territory of western sahara for journalists, independent observers and humanitarian organisations.
in writing. - i support this resolution. the threat to democratic freedoms, freedom of assembly, freedom of expression and freedom of the media in ukraine in recent months is a matter of concern. the public authorities should investigate and take action to rectify reports of violations of rights and freedoms. it is also important that the authorities refrain from any attempt to control, directly or indirectly, the content of the reports of national media outlets. the rules for elections are also still under discussion. it is therefore necessary to take active steps to improve the electoral system and to improve the legislation in this area before the next parliamentary elections. it is also necessary to strengthen the credibility, stability and independence of institutions and to ensure governance based on the principles of democracy and the rule of law. the ukrainian authorities should also make greater efforts to combat corruption.
in writing. − i support the parliament's resolution on ukraine's further steps towards political stability both at home and abroad. ukraine is an important partner of the european union in the implementation of the eastern neighbourhood policy and it is therefore essential to continue to pursue close cooperation, in particular in the area of visa. parliament called on the commission and the council to draw up an action plan on the introduction of visa-free regime for ukraine. in order to achieve long-term political stability both within the country and with neighbouring countries, it is important to implement constitutional reforms that help to create the right balance between the executive and the judiciary. further reforms are also needed to consolidate media freedom and pluralism. the public authorities are encouraged to take measures to ensure freedom of the press. the european union is firmly committed to helping ukraine pursue its reforms. the european union therefore continues to pursue intensive cooperation with ukraine in strengthening democracy in the country and accelerating its integration into the european union.
in writing. − the recent local elections in ukraine have extended the influence of president yanukovych's party in the regions. unfortunately, the change in the electoral system a few months before, partially returning to a minority system, further divided the position and the opposition, and provided grounds for accusing the authorities of undemocratic intentions. the resolution also expressed concern that violations of the right to freedom of expression, assembly and the media have increased in ukraine in recent years. i voted in favour of the resolution because it calls on ukraine, which is seeking long-term eu membership, to adopt laws regulating media activities in line with international standards, and stresses the need to strengthen the independence and effectiveness of state institutions. only in this way can the functioning of democracy and the rule of law in the country be ensured. i support the calls by the authors of the resolution for kiev to continue to modernise the infrastructure for the supply of energy resources and to implement projects to diversify the supply of energy sources together with the eu member states. i welcome the action plan on visa liberalisation, which sets out practical guidelines for its implementation as soon as possible: how to improve the rule of law and the implementation of fundamental rights in ukraine.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, after the government elections in kiev earlier this year, most people thought that the end had come to ukraine. the point is that the new ukrainian government is more pragmatic and open to reforms than expected. close cooperation with ukraine is important if there is any chance of stability in the region. in recent years, ukraine has become a political football field, with russia and the west battling for influence in ukraine during the orange revolution and in recent elections. whether it chooses russia or the west, the eu now has the opportunity to pursue a new policy on ukraine that includes russia. my country, lithuania, also has a role to play. security and energy are two areas where cooperation will take a long time to recover from some of the disasters in kiev. however, it is important that ukraine's efforts to modernise its economy and integrate more closely into europe are guided by democratic principles and respect for human rights. i therefore sincerely hope that the next eu-ukraine summit in brussels on 22 november will bring about sustainable progress.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. energy conservation and renewable energy are europe's priorities in the fight against climate change. they can improve the eu's energy security and have a high potential for industrial development, innovation, regional development and job creation through the development of green energy. however, this struggle also has a negative impact on the competitiveness of the eu market as a whole. international trade rules are crucial in the fight against climate change, but the world trade organisation (wto) agreement does not make direct references to climate change, food security and the millennium development goals. i believe that the wto rules need to be amended to ensure that they are consistent with and comply with the commitments made under the kyoto protocol and multilateral environmental agreements. this would ensure that all countries adhere to the same standards, as some countries currently have a greater competitive advantage in subsidising energy prices and not applying restrictions or quotas to co2 emissions and are not interested in joining multilateral climate change agreements.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it sets out the strategic objectives and milestones that the european union could take further towards a better agreement on climate change. i would like to stress that the european union has already taken the first steps in the right direction in the areas of illegal timber imports, biofuels and aviation emissions. i would like to stress that the fight against climate change is a competitive indicator and that europe's priorities in this area are energy conservation and renewable energy, which can improve the energy security of the european union and which have a great potential in the areas of industry, innovation, regional development and job creation. the european union must now be more vocal, united and effective, as the copenhagen climate change summit resulted in a disappointing agreement. it should pay particular attention to setting targets for reducing expenditure and supporting developing countries in line with scientific advice and the european parliament's recommendations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it contains proposals from the european parliament which provide for specific measures to promote corporate social responsibility in the context of the european union's trade policy. i would like to point out that the international economic and financial crisis has created a social crisis everywhere and has increased the need for new and stricter rules to better manage the global economy and not to expand at the expense of people. the european union's trade policy must therefore be consistent with the eu's general objectives and, in particular, its foreign policy objectives. it is also essential that europe ensures that its trade policy does not undermine but helps to defend its social model and its environmental policy. i agree with the european parliament's call for the european commission to improve its sustainability impact assessment model, as the economic, social, human rights and environmental impacts of trade negotiations, including climate change mitigation objectives, need to be properly reflected. in addition, the commission should follow up on trade agreements with eu partner countries and conduct impact assessment studies both before and after the signature of trade agreements, in particular with regard to vulnerable sectors.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because, as we know, the prosperity of international trade is justified if it actually contributes to economic development, employment and living standards. this is the only reason why the opening of trade is considered as positive and acceptable. however, it generates very strong resistance when it is carried out by destroying jobs or by degrading living conditions, social rights and the environment. trade policy cannot be reduced to the direct interests of a few economic operators. trade liberalisation has very different economic and social consequences that need to be managed and sometimes compensated for, as some benefit from liberalisation and others lose. the expansion of international trade is mutually beneficial only if certain conditions are met. this creates the need to regulate the opening of trade, its conditions, its pace, which is even more acute as globalization accelerates. europe, like the international community, is faced with the need to incorporate real guarantees of sustainable development and social rights into international trade rules. this requirement is in line with the objectives of both the un and the eu, as well as the high expectations of european citizens. until now, there has been virtually no link between trade and csr. linking trade rules to corporate social responsibility commitments would be an effective tool to help companies behave better and to help countries that sign trade agreements with the eu to comply with social and environmental standards.
in writing. − the two currently applicable block exemption regulations, specialisation (commission regulation (ec) no 2658/2000) and research and technological development (commission regulation (ec) no 2659/2000), will expire on 31 december 2010. the commission intends to adopt two new block exemption regulations replacing the previous ones and to adopt certain guidelines to help stakeholders analyse and understand whether their cooperation agreements are compatible with competition rules. there are now new rules, developed by the commission and the case law of the european court of justice, which need to be codified. i supported this resolution, in particular the european parliament's desire to ensure legal clarity for the subjects. i believe that the eu should take into account the experience of the eu's national competition authorities and of competition authorities in other countries around the world when developing guidelines. i believe that it would be useful to start international negotiations on the harmonisation of competition rules on a global scale, since many agreements and practices today are subject to different competitive regimes that do not allow entities to compete on the market on equal terms.
in writing. − i supported the proposal because horizontal agreements generally raise more competition concerns than vertical agreements and i am therefore pleased that the commission is taking a stricter approach to the market share threshold in the case of horizontal agreements. it is also considered that the regulatory framework should not be made more complex.
in recent years, the christian community in iraq has experienced an escalation of religious violence and persecution. christians, terrified of the bombings and the killings, are fleeing iraq. in condemning the brutal terrorist attacks, i would just like to say that the american invasion has exacerbated the situation in this regard and therefore places on their shoulders the responsibility to improve the situation. in general, the religious and national divisions, the hatred between the two in iraq, have reached such a level that the state is in serious danger. the democratic world expects the iraqi authorities to abolish the death penalty as soon as possible. the decision by the iraqi president not to execute tariq aziz is welcome, but we will be watching closely to see how the parliament handles this case.
according to the russian statistical agencies, in 2008 more than 1.5 million russian visas were issued to eu citizens and 3.5 million eu visas to russian citizens. this is more than a quarter of all schengen visas issued worldwide. the eu-russia visa policy is an important tool for deepening people-to-people relations and bringing russia closer to the eu. i would like to draw attention to the plight of the people of the kaliningrad region of the russian federation. most of the inhabitants of this russian island surrounded by eu countries are granted single-entry, short-stay schengen visas. many kaliningrad residents who travel through neighbouring eu countries have to pay a visa fee every time, stand in line at the consulates of eu countries. the representatives of kaliningrad's civil society organisations, who recently picketed outside the ec building in brussels, called for special conditions for the inhabitants of the enclave to travel to eu countries without tying the issue to the eu-russia visa-free regime negotiations.
for the s&d group. the single residence and work permit directive is indeed a very important directive. there has been much discussion, many opinions, many assessments, but no common solution, acceptable to all third-country workers legally living and working in the european union, has been reached. this directive should be a general framework directive on the rights of third-country workers and should provide the basis for the development of specific directives, as this is the only way in which it can contribute to the objective of the european union of establishing a common migration policy. the main problem, however, is that the framework of the directive which we have been promised is already being removed in the commission proposal, since it excludes certain categories of workers from its content, namely seasonal workers, workers on internal transfer and refugees. in other words, this directive does not establish the principle of legal equality for all third-country workers. it is therefore necessary, in order for this directive to be a reference point and a framework, to include all workers, and in particular seasonal workers, in its scope, otherwise migrant workers legally residing and working in the european union would not benefit from working conditions based on the principles of fairness, equality and equity. it should also be noted that migrant workers contribute to the economy of the european union both through their work and through their contributions in the form of taxes and social security contributions, and therefore must be guaranteed the same minimum rights and equal treatment in the labour market. if we are to vote on this directive tomorrow, we must be united, because the only way we can win this battle is to ensure that all groups of workers are included in this directive and that these workers have equal rights. i would like to stress that there can be no two-tier labour market, either within the european union or outside it. we cannot allow the creation of a second class of workers in the european union labour market, without any rights and without any guarantees. this is how we will remember all the social norms that have been established up to now.
human rights issues need to be addressed at both the european union level and the member states themselves, which must take responsibility for ensuring the fundamental rights of their citizens. for example, at european level, it is essential to develop a european union strategy on children's rights, as not all member states are able to ensure the protection of children's rights at national level. it is therefore necessary to develop practical measures to combat child abuse, sexual exploitation and child pornography. another priority area is disabled people, as they continue to face discrimination in social, professional and cultural life. a specific framework of european union legislation on the rights of persons with disabilities should therefore be established and a european union disability strategy should be developed. i would like to emphasise that the fight against trafficking in human beings, especially children and women, remains a major problem and one of the most serious human rights violations. it is also essential to tackle poverty and social exclusion, especially for the elderly, who have been the most affected by the crisis.
in writing. i congratulate both rapporteurs on their work, as this historic directive is a very important step in tackling trafficking in human beings on a large scale, with clear levels of penalties and sanctions. despite the fact that a number of european union and national legislation and multiannual political commitments have already been adopted in this area, it is estimated that several hundred thousand people are trafficked each year within and outside the european union. this shows that the fight against trafficking in human beings, especially women and children, remains a major problem and one of the most serious human rights violations. i would like to emphasise that, as children are more vulnerable and at higher risk of becoming victims of trafficking in human beings, special attention should be paid to this group of victims. given that trafficking in human beings is a modern form of slavery and a highly profitable business for organised crime, more attention is needed to prevention, protection of victims, social issues. in addition, a hostile environment must be created for traffickers. the level of penalties and sanctions for persons who profit from trafficking in human beings should reflect the seriousness of the offence and act as an effective deterrent. in addition to penalties, member states should include sanctions such as the seizure of property and take the necessary measures to seize and confiscate the means of and the profits from the criminal activity, as this would be an economic blow to the activity.
today, the european parliament has demonstrated its firm stance in taking a step towards closer cooperation between the european union and the south caucasus. the south caucasus and georgia are regions of strategic importance to the european union. my country, lithuania, has always had a special relationship with georgia. we have supported it in the most difficult moments and not only at the state level, as government structures, but also the huge support of the public has always been given to this state. i believe that the whole european union wants georgia to come into the family of european nations. this country is making a huge effort to be part of europe, and we must treat it accordingly. visa facilitation will help to ensure the mobility of people, their cooperation and, at the same time, economic and cultural links. i would like to congratulate georgia and its people on the decision taken by the european parliament today. the european union sends them a message that they are welcome in the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which supports the proposal for a directive to cover both refugees recognised under the geneva convention and persons enjoying subsidiary protection. in its report, the european parliament endorses the european commission's proposal and takes account of the obligation to protect the interests of beneficiaries of international protection. i would like to point out that the current situation of third-country nationals who are beneficiaries of international protection is confusing and unclear, as there are no harmonised conditions for granting status. the commission's proposal will make the conditions and procedure for granting status simpler and clearer in the european union. in addition, this new directive will create favourable conditions for long-term residents who are granted international protection to reside in a member state other than the one in which their status was recognised.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution which approves the conclusion of an agreement with georgia on the facilitation of the issuance of visas. this agreement shows a clear desire for rapprochement between georgia and the eu which has been expressed in recent years through a series of significant political acts, ranging from improved bilateral cooperation between the eu and georgia to georgia's accession to the council of europe and the european convention on human rights. i supported the resolution as i strongly believe that the agreement on the facilitation of the issuance of visas will facilitate people-to-people contacts, which are a very important condition for the development of economic, social, humanitarian, cultural, scientific and other ties. i believe that the elimination of the visa requirement for the citizens of georgia will mark an important step on their path to european integration. a visa facilitation regime is of great significance in people’s lives as it strengthens contacts between peoples and brings about the realisation of the idea of free movement, which is one of the fundamental rights in europe.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament recommendation on visa facilitation for georgia because the new enlargement of the european union provided an opportunity for the european union to create a new framework for cooperation with its neighbours to the east and south. the visa facilitation agreement will in particular facilitate personal contacts between citizens, which is essential to ensure the strengthening of economic, humanitarian, cultural, scientific and other links. in addition, visa facilitation is a vital element in people's lives, which will help to implement the principle of free movement, i.e. to guarantee one of the fundamental human rights in europe. in addition, the abolition of the visa regime for georgian citizens will be an important step in their european integration. i share the european parliament's view that the agreements concluded by the european union with georgia, such as the agreement on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation and the agreement on the facilitation of the issuing of visas prima per tutti, represent a very important milestone in the progress of relations between the european union and georgia. in addition, such agreements are also important from a regional perspective, as they will support the eu's efforts to strengthen cooperation with other countries in the region.
in writing. − i supported this resolution as it is obvious that the multiplication of major disasters outside the european union in recent years has led to increased calls to improve the effectiveness of the existing eu disaster response capacity. one of the major steps towards a more integrated response has been the inclusion of civil protection and humanitarian aid under the portfolio of one single commissioner to create opportunities for enhanced coherence and coordination of the eu disaster response. it is, however, regrettable that two years after the publication of the 2008 commission communication, many actions from the action plan still remain to be implemented, while the eu response to recent crises has revealed the limitations of the existing system. if efforts have recently been made to reinforce coherence and coordination between the civil protection and humanitarian aid dimensions of the eu response, steps towards the creation of a european civil protection force have remained minimal. therefore, a strong political will is needed for a more efficient and rapid response to emergencies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. disasters affecting people and causing economic and environmental damage are increasing in number, frequency and geographical scope worldwide. while progress has been made in recent years towards a more coordinated eu approach to disaster response, further efforts are needed to ensure effective, coordinated and coordinated eu action in this area. it is necessary to develop an action plan setting out concrete actions to develop a more integrated coordination of the different disaster response measures, to assess possible actions by the eu and the member states. in order to coordinate assistance effectively outside the european union, the newly created european external action service should be involved in these activities. it is also necessary to ensure that sufficient financial resources are available to finance the necessary aid measures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, in the face of the increasing frequency of major natural or man-made disasters outside the territory of the european union, there is a growing number of proposals to restructure the european union's disaster response capacity and to increase the effectiveness of the existing european union's disaster response capacity. for example, the lack of publicity of the european union's response is one of the main problems in disaster response. clear agreements and procedures are therefore necessary to ensure double visibility, at member state and union level, of the civil protection resources deployed by member states under the european union civil protection mechanism. the other problem of the european union's response is that of coordination, and the european parliament therefore expects the european external action service to create joint crisis response capacities in the future and to rationalise existing crisis platforms. in addition, the commission and the council should also ensure clear coordination mechanisms between themselves with regard to the deployment of the european union's military resources in response to disasters.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important resolution because it is high time to pay attention to chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (cbrn) risks which present a new dimension of possible terrorist attacks, accidents, natural disasters and/or pandemics due to their transnational character and mass-scale victimization. it is necessary to start dealing with such materials, and their proper storage, limited access, controls, etc., from the very beginning and not just create ex post facto intervention programmes. at the same time, aftermath intervention demands large-scale cooperation between different national authorities inside a member state. therefore, the cbrn action plan should ensure the efficient interaction of national and eu initiatives in addressing cbrn risks and preparing the necessary response. considering that cbrn accidents or attacks pose serious threats to the security of the people living in the european union and can disrupt critical infrastructure and the normal functioning of societies in any or several eu member states and are oblivious to borders, i support the european parliament resolution which calls on the council and the commission to rapidly review and strengthen the action plan according to the recommendations in this report and to ensure its swift implementation.
in writing. − chbrb disasters, whether accidental or as a result of terrorist attacks, pose a serious threat to the safety and health of eu citizens and cause problems of environmental pollution and contamination. although the number of incidents involving chbrbs in the eu has been relatively low so far and limited to industrial accidents or the global increase in the number of dangerous pathogens, the risk of accidents or incidents remains. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the rapporteur's position that the security action plan proposed by the european commission, which aims to ensure effective coordination of national and eu initiatives to combat chbrb threats and to help prepare for an appropriate response, does not sufficiently assess the risks of threats that extend beyond the eu's borders. i believe that the international threat of chbrbs must be properly assessed and integrated in the security action plan, and that preventive action must therefore ensure an international dimension, in particular by emphasising the implementation of international agreements in the field of nuclear and chemical weapons.
in writing. − i voted in favour of increasing chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear safety in the eu and i am delighted to have had the opportunity to be the shadow opinion rapporteur on this issue. while the prevention and protection of accidents caused by these substances is a matter for the member states, a common approach is needed. this ec communication is a step towards a common action plan to protect the eu public from all kinds of disasters. in these times of great instability, threats are not only caused by irresponsible human activities or accidents but also by deliberate actions. this is particularly relevant in my country, lithuania, which is beset by chemical and nuclear dangers. the eu has also been involved in the development of the baltic sea region, with the aim of promoting the development of the baltic sea region. we must assess the situation, the safety standards in place and their relevance to the needs of the present. only after assessing the current situation can we decide whether we need new safety standards. this system of evaluation and standardisation must be flexible enough to adapt to changing technologies that not only make our lives easier but can also be lethal weapons in the hands of terrorists. on the other hand, security should not become a reason or pretext for over-centralising civil security. while common security standards and oversight would certainly facilitate security, we should not create new institutions or overly complex administrative procedures in every case.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important resolution as the implementation of the cohesion policy is predominantly decentralised and based on sub-national authorities assuming responsibility. i agree that the multi-level approach should be applied not only vertically but also horizontally, among actors of the same level, in all shared-competence union policies including the cohesion policy, which plays a forerunner role in the application of multi-level governance, as an instrument to improve the quality of decision-making processes through the active involvement of sub-national authorities from the pre-legislative phase of the debates. also, it is important to stress that funding application procedures are too complicated, and an excessive number of checks are likely to discourage potential beneficiaries of cohesion policy from the efficient absorption of funds and maximisation of their impact. therefore, there must be sufficient administrative capacity both at eu and at regional and local level in order to increase the added value of the cohesion policy and ensure the sustainability of actions.
in writing. − the european union's cohesion policy is the key instrument for ensuring sustainable regional development. cohesion policy is implemented in a highly decentralised manner and is based on the increased responsibility of subnational authorities. the lisbon treaty has given territorial authorities greater scope for participation in decision-making, which would allow for better and more effective implementation of cohesion policy measures adapted to the needs of individual regions and their people. i voted in favour of this report. i believe that the potential of territorial cooperation, which has not been exploited in some regions, needs to be better exploited and that the principle of partnership needs to be promoted more actively, ensuring effective cooperation between the private and public sectors.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because cohesion policy improves decision-making processes through multi-level governance and active involvement of subnational institutions. the current supervision by the european commission is considered to be inadequate and cannot compensate for ineffective control systems at national level over the entire multiannual period. in order to improve the control system and to provide more support to subnational authorities, it is therefore necessary for the commission to strengthen its supervision and procedures. in addition, national and regional managing authorities should be guaranteed increased investment in financial assistance and training to increase the capacity and knowledge of the authorities responsible for managing the programmes. it should also be noted that the current complexity of the application procedure for funding often discourages potential beneficiaries from cohesion policy, and that a more user-friendly policy with more harmonised structural funds rules should be developed in the future.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the 2006 report of the european court of auditors shows that the cohesion policy control systems in place are not sufficiently effective and that the error rate for reimbursing expenditure is too high (12%). in the 2008 annual report, this figure is confirmed as 11% of the funds unduly paid. these errors are partly due to the complexity of the rules governing the structural funds. the system of shared responsibility inherent in cohesion policy makes the interpretation and application of the rules very difficult, as many actors are involved. the rules should therefore be simplified in order to ensure user-friendly procedures and not to discourage potential beneficiaries from participating in projects.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which aims to harness the know-how and experience of immigration liaison officers for the benefit of frontex and vice-versa. this was not a matter addressed in the original regulation adopted in 2004. there is a clear need for the amendments and for new issues to be included in order to improve the functioning of frontex, such as exploitation of the information obtained through the liaison officer networks and exchange of this via iconet (secure information and coordination network for member states’ migration management services), accessing the external borders fund to promote the creation of liaison officer networks and facilitate their operation and, lastly, expediting the system for the presentation of half-yearly reports. i am convinced that those amendments are very timely and necessary as the eu has to face and manage the increased flow of legal – and also illegal – immigration.
in writing. − i support the amendment to the regulation to strengthen cooperation between the frontex agency and immigration liaison officers. more active cooperation would help frontex to fulfil its key functions in combating illegal migration, preventing illegal immigration and returning illegal immigrants. as the agency's activities relate to migration within the eu, immigration liaison officers deployed in third countries could contribute to the agency's objectives outside the eu. this would enable the agency to exchange information more effectively with the competent authorities of third countries or international organisations on eu border control issues, in the training of border guards, the exchange of operational information and joint operations. the exchange of information could take place through the iconet network (a secure information and coordination network for member states' migration management services).
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because of the importance of creating a network of immigration liaison officers in the face of increased migration flows. given that the current economic, financial and social crisis has further fuelled the migration of people, the european union must do everything possible to manage migration flows properly. the establishment of the network would not only help to regulate legal, irregular and illegal immigration, but also improve operational cooperation between member states and improve the semi-annual reporting system. moreover, closer cooperation between officials would guarantee a better exchange of technical knowledge and contacts with colleagues working in third countries. i would like to emphasise that the european union institutions should continuously strive to ensure a safe and fast immigration process and to guarantee that european union citizens are protected against the potential risks posed by illegal and irregular immigration. this can only be achieved by using all the effective international and internal cooperation instruments available.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution as economic immigration is a growing challenge for the eu. therefore, the eu must develop balanced legal immigration channels which meet the needs of our labour markets while taking account of the demographic and economic challenges which the eu will face in the near future. i am convinced that the adoption of this directive will simplify procedures for the admission of third-country nationals for employment purposes, will reduce administrative costs and also will make it easier to check on people admitted to the territory of a member state and authorised to work there. with reference to the simplified procedure, i have to stress that the implementation of legal requirements and transparency of decision-making by national authorities must be ensured. i agree with the rapporteur that these decisions on the admission of third-country nationals for employment purposes have a strong impact on the life of the persons concerned, and must therefore be taken in a way which is completely transparent.
in writing. − today, the european parliament, in voting on a single directive on residence and work permits for third-country workers, blocked the european commission's proposal and returned it to the responsible parliamentary committees to further develop the content of the proposal for a directive. this vote is a victory for the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats in the european parliament and for all workers in the european union. i would like to stress that since the framework for the directive promised to us was already removed in the commission proposal, because it excludes certain categories of workers, such as seasonal workers, workers on internal transfer, refugees, the european parliament could not give its consent to such a directive. this directive should be a general framework directive on the rights of third-country workers and a basis for the preparation of specific directives, since this is the only way to achieve the objective of the european union to establish a common migration policy. we have shown by our vote that the european union cannot create a double labour market with double standards, because all the social standards that have been established so far will be forgotten.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it supports council's proposal for a directive which provides clear measures concerning the prevention of crime and victim protection in particular. it is important that victims of violence should not only be prevented in their country from being harmed by offenders, but should also have these kinds of preventive measures within the whole of the european union. the adoption and implementation of this directive would show that the eu is determined to put into practice the stockholm action plan, the european union initiative to maintain and develop an area of freedom, security and justice. it is important to stress that a european protection order should be applicable to all victims of crime, including victims of human trafficking, forced marriages, honour killings, gender violence, witnesses, victims of terrorism and organised crime, regardless of the age or sex of the victim, where there is an identified aggressor. furthermore, protection of victims does not mean just physical protection, but also includes the dignity of victims. therefore, i strongly agree that it is imperative to include protection for victims that aims to restore their dignity and the respect due to them as human beings.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive on the european protection order, as its main objectives are the prevention of crime and the protection of victims. at present, following the issuance of a victim protection order, the enforcement measures imposed by it are only applicable in the issuing member state. the european union must do everything it can to prevent crime and persecution at european level. only in this way can we guarantee a safe environment for the victim and not restrict the victim's right to mobility. although criminal, civil and administrative proceedings vary across member states, all parties must work together to prevent repeat offences. i think it is very important to include the moral support aspect in this proposal. many victims suffer from the various psychological and moral effects of the crime long after the crime has been committed. the european union must provide not only prevention and protection but also moral support for the victims so that they can start a new life in any european country.
in writing. − i supported this resolution as trafficking in human beings is a modern form of slavery, a serious crime and a severe violation of fundamental human rights. the treaty of lisbon has strengthened eu action in the field of judicial and police cooperation in criminal matters, including in combating trafficking in human beings, and the european parliament, in becoming co-legislator, has a full role to play. i strongly support the ep proposal that penalties for traffickers need to be increased to the level of the 2009 proposal, the confiscation of assets should be applied, and assistance to victims, and in particular to child victims, should be further developed. i am convinced that the ep should clearly express the requirement for member states to do more in order to discourage demand for the services of victims of human trafficking, through awareness-raising campaigns, education, training and so on, all of which should fully incorporate a gender perspective. it is important to stress that criminal sanctions against employers who use trafficked labour have a strong preventive effect, so these must be developed further.
in writing. - i support this report. trafficking in human beings is a serious crime and a serious violation of fundamental human rights. the scale of this crime is widespread worldwide and includes various forms of crime related to sexual exploitation, forced labour, illicit trafficking in human organs, illegal adoption, etc. it is therefore necessary to take immediate and active action to develop an anti-trafficking strategy with a strong focus on combating and preventing trafficking in human beings. it is also necessary to ensure effective means of assistance and support for victims, including the right to compensation, necessary medical treatment, legal and psychological assistance free of charge, with particular attention to children. the strategy to combat trafficking in human beings should also include social, immigration, asylum and reintegration policy aspects. in addition, in order to reduce the scale of crime, it is necessary to provide for effective and appropriate penalties for infringements of the provisions of the directive.
in writing. − today, the european parliament adopted a historic and highly significant directive to strengthen the fight against trafficking in human beings. this directive is a major step forward in tackling the scale of this heinous crime by introducing stricter penalties and sanctions and by further strengthening prevention and protection of victims. i voted in favour of this report because traffickers in human beings must be given a stronger response to the atrocities they commit and there is a need for stronger penalties and sanctions to reflect the seriousness of these crimes and to act as an effective deterrent. the new directive contains a very important provision that in addition to penalties, member states should include sanctions such as the seizure of property and take the necessary measures to seize and confiscate the means of criminal activity and the profits derived from this business, as this is the only way to economically punish this criminal activity. i would like to point out that, as the scale of this crime increases in europe, the european union's approach must be even more human rights-oriented, with a focus on prevention, protection of victims, return and reintegration policies, social issues.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution which approves the conclusion of the agreement with georgia on readmission of persons residing without authorisation, which will push out the frontiers of the area of liberty and security, extending it beyond the european union and encompassing this neighbouring country. i am convinced that this agreement is a step forward in the relations between the european union and georgia, it shows the european aspirations of georgia, and will thus represent a strong signal on the part of the european union. it will promote friendly relations, stability, security and the well-being of citizens, which is so much needed in the region. moreover, it will encourage georgia to implement the reforms needed in the area of freedom, security and justice. i strongly support the eu-georgia agreement on readmission of persons residing without authorisation as a sufficiently sound framework is in place in georgia to ensure that the rights of those persons treated under the agreement will be respected.
in writing. − the eu's enlargement in 2004 and 2009 led the eu to create a new framework of cooperation and partnership with the countries to the east and south of the eu's external borders, to support their security, stability and development and to avoid the fragmentation of the new continent of europe. i voted for this deal. the european union must fulfil its obligations towards the states of the south caucasus and ensure the security of the area. the region is of strategic importance to the european union and it must help the region to develop economically and commercially. in its actions, the eu must, in particular, respect the principles of good governance, full respect for human rights and democracy. i believe that this agreement with georgia on readmission is important from a regional perspective and will also underpin the eu's efforts to strengthen cooperation with other countries in the region.
in writing. − i supported this resolution as it provides a very much needed framework highlighting the integrating role of cohesion policy and the contribution it makes to increasing the eu’s global competitiveness. cohesion policy is the eu’s key policy for enabling the regions to face growing challenges, such as climate change, population ageing, social migration, energy, or the economic and financial crisis, in the best possible way and hence to help increase the eu’s global economic competitiveness. i support the rapporteur that this could be achieved by ensuring common living standards for all eu citizens and supporting development by harnessing local and regional specificities, thereby generating added value and economic productivity. it is important to stress that once the objective has been met of ensuring a similar quality of life by enabling access to infrastructure and quality services, the regions can concentrate on measures aimed at developing local economic potential, with an important stage being the development of local research, development and innovation policies and the appropriate regional infrastructure.
in writing. − the competitiveness of the european union will depend directly on the ability of its internal policies to make decisions that are able to meet today's challenges. a sustainable regional and cohesion policy is a necessary factor in removing obstacles to economic development and in increasing competitiveness in the internal market and globally. the importance of a coherent and coordinated regional policy in the european union is already clear. the financial and economic crisis that followed, and the gas crisis that preceded it, have shown that the lack of a proper regional policy is damaging europe as a whole. i believe that cohesion policy is a key eu policy area, and its implementation will determine whether the regions are able to overcome the challenges they face. i agree with the rapporteur that the development of territorial cohesion policy will have a direct impact on the achievement of the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy and that it is necessary to analyse as soon as possible whether eu support to specific regions is based on concrete results that ensure the sustainability of regional policy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because we need to discuss measures taken at european and national level on social and territorial cohesion to achieve the european union's policy objectives, including increasing global competitiveness. indeed, cohesion policy is a key eu policy area, which will enable regions to tackle problems such as the economic and financial crisis, climate change, population ageing, social migration or energy in the best possible way. these objectives can therefore be achieved by supporting development at local and regional level and, of course, by ensuring common living standards for all eu citizens. i would like to emphasise that europe is a place of solidarity and that it is therefore essential to reduce the disparities in the level of development of europe's regions and to ensure economic, social and territorial cohesion. moreover, cohesion policy must be more results-oriented and it is important to aim for even greater efficiency and utility, as this will only make it more convenient and useful for consumers. the implementation of cohesion and regional policy and the independence and coverage of all european regions are essential for the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, in accordance with the principles of the treaties, cohesion policy, which aims to reduce disparities in the development of regions and to prepare them to face long- and short-term challenges (globalisation, demographic change, rural depopulation, climate change, protection of biodiversity) taking into account their specific strengths and weaknesses, is clearly of crucial importance for the process of european integration. a strong and well-funded cohesion policy is a prerequisite for achieving the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy. all regions must develop in a sustainable way. it is welcome that the commission is being asked to examine and propose a methodology for action to promote rural-urban partnerships, combat rural depopulation and at the same time promote sustainable urban development, as almost 80% of the eu population live in cities. urban and rural areas play a dynamic role in ensuring the economic development of regions. the next programming period should focus on investments in urban and suburban projects and ensure better coordination of rural programmes. there is a need to promote entrepreneurship and support small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) in recognition of their role in increasing the competitiveness of the economy and creating new jobs, facilitate access to finance, and ensure simplified access to risk capital and microfinance. the commission should further simplify the rules for the use of the structural funds and the cohesion fund in order to reduce the administrative burden on beneficiaries.
for the first time since the entry into force of the new treaty of lisbon, the european parliament has used its powers to participate fully in the formulation of the budget of the european union. the failure of the first attempt to agree and include the legitimate demands of the european parliament shows that there are still institutional contradictions, which should not exist in principle, and which create obstacles to effective interinstitutional cooperation. it is perhaps no secret that the aim of all the institutions of the european union is to ensure that the adoption of agreements of major importance to the european union as a whole and its citizens proceeds as smoothly as possible. the future therefore requires a fundamental change in the very principles of the institutions' functioning, and the involvement of the european parliament in all stages of the negotiations, particularly in the adoption of the budget, must be considered as crucial to the implementation of the principle of representative democracy.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the preparation of this very important document. a considerable amount of work has already been done on the establishment and functioning of a financial control system in the european union. the role of credit rating agencies is of particular importance as they have a direct impact on the functioning of the financial system and on its reliability and stability. i think that the big problem is that the financial supervisory authorities of the european union, which are being created, do not yet have the real leverage to exert direct influence and make binding decisions. i therefore support the proposals to give one of the european supervisory authorities, in this case the european securities and markets authority, greater powers to ensure and monitor the transparency of the activities of the certified credit rating agencies in the european union in order to avoid distortions of the principles of the financial market and the single internal market.
i congratulate the delegation of the european parliament, the member of the commission and the entire european union on the unanimous vote in cancún. last year we regretted the copenhagen results, or rather the lack of them, today we are happy about cancún, but my joy is still genetically reserved, simply because i want more. it is clear that negotiating is a huge and complex task. having so many different positions is a challenge. but what worries me most is the public image of this issue. and, in fact, in the eyes of the public, he doesn't look very victorious. the question of the difficulty of reaching an agreement, i mean, of reaching a legally binding instrument, which is important to all of us, is becoming a pressing issue. i agree with the commission that we have to do our homework, that we have to achieve the 20% target ourselves by various means. and of course it's always easier to just go up against those who might not be doing something, and point a finger and say, well, maybe we don't need to either. and i still want to ask you, despite the fact that you say you've achieved this, did you really not expect a little bit more from cancun?
member of the commission. − women and men are exposed to health risks in different ways with consequently different health outcomes. women live on average six years longer than men but most of these additional years are lived in worse health. certain diseases, such as osteoporosis, have a much higher incidence among women. this is why the eu strategy for equality between women and men (2010-2015), which the commission has recently adopted, points to the need for medical research and healthcare to reflect these differences. the strategy stresses that health services need to continue the process of adaptation to properly reflect the specific needs of women and men. the strategy for these actions, specifically targeting women’s health, includes awareness-raising seminars on women’s health and exchanging best practices on gender-specific health policies. we are not starting from scratch here. the eu health strategy, adopted three years ago, already signalled the need to take gender-related issues into account in health policy-making. to this end, the community health programme has supported many projects on women’s health aimed at promoting a better understanding and recognition of women’s health needs. a good example of how the eu can help member states improve women’s health is cancer screening. it is estimated that 32 000 deaths from breast cancer alone could be prevented each year across the european union if effective national screening programmes for breast cancer were implemented. this is why the commission developed european guidelines on breast cancer screening. finally, i am pleased to say that earlier this year the commission published a report on women’s health, which contributes to raising awareness of the need for policies that are more responsive to gender concerns.
i'd like to make a few more clarifications. do we have enough data on women's health protection in the member states? do we know what the impact of this particular economic and financial crisis has been on women's health? and should we not also investigate the impact of poverty on women's health, especially on the health of older women? does poverty make quality health care available to women?
yes, i have a question on belarus. thank you for your presents on the eve of christmas. recently, president lukashenko visited moscow and signed very important agreements with president medvedev. how would you assess the new situation before the elections and after the signing of these agreements?
although many legislative instruments have been developed in the field of energy efficiency and savings, not all of them are conducive to achieving the desired results. scientific studies suggest that at current rates of progress we will fall short of about half of the 20% target. more binding measures and increased controls in the member states are therefore necessary. i believe that the european commission, when reviewing the energy efficiency action plan, must take very seriously the fact that member states are not making sufficient use of the possibilities for energy savings, which does not allow for increased energy independence. it is also necessary to set binding energy efficiency targets for individual member states and to monitor their implementation, otherwise the huge potential for energy savings will remain untapped.
i really agree with all the points made today about the creation of a crisis management mechanism and about the additional measures which i believe both the european council and parliament will consider in the future. indeed, there have been many conflicting assessments today and perhaps a few accusations of past mistakes. they were everywhere. there were those from the member states, from the european commission, from the council, and there were those from commercial banks, whose activities will, i believe, also be closely examined in the future. i want to talk about something else. i liked the idea expressed by president barroso that in this difficult situation we must work together, in solidarity, shoulder to shoulder, and i would really like to ask, mr commissioner, to make every effort to ensure that all countries, whether they are members of the euro area or not, participate in this new crisis management mechanism. because we have opened up our markets to the european union, we pay a single sum of money into the budget and many other things.
today is a very joyous and important day in the european parliament. i very much hope that we will adopt this mechanism, which will allow citizens to participate in shaping the future of the european union, not only by electing the european parliament, but also by actively participating in the creative process themselves. it is very important that the citizens' voice is heard. i myself had the opportunity to represent tens of thousands of citizens of the european union in a petition to the european parliament a few years ago, and i am very pleased that the european parliament then adopted a resolution on the basis of the petition. it is a great thing to feel that your voice, as a citizen, is being heard in the institutions of the european union. there must be a dialogue between the european commission and the citizens, there must be no situation which would demotivate the citizens, and this is a step towards closer cooperation not only between the institutions and the citizens, but also between the citizens themselves. it is a process of knowledge, of identifying certain problems and of solving them together, but it must be a process that is safe, transparent and based on the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. i am pleased that agreement has been reached on a regulation on the citizens' initiative less than a year after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. this regulation is a major step towards strengthening the principles of democracy in the european union. giving one million citizens the right to initiate the legislative process will stimulate interest in and participation in european politics. it is very important that parliament has succeeded in simplifying the procedure for submitting and organising an initiative. the initiative will only be successful if it is easy to implement and accessible to everyone. it must be clear and understandable, and citizens must be able and willing to participate. on the other hand, it is also necessary to ensure transparency in the organisation and funding of this initiative, which must remain the expression of the citizens themselves and not of political or other influential groups. i believe that the final text of the regulation we are voting on today will help to achieve this balance. one of the objectives of the lisbon treaty is to bring citizens closer to europe, and the citizens' initiative will help to achieve this by establishing this new, unique form of civic participation in politics.
i welcome the very important report by the rapporteur, mr bendtsen, on the review of the energy efficiency action plan. i voted for it because i think it is important not only for economic reasons but also in the light of the cancun summit. it has achieved a number of such common approaches, and it is important to continue the work the european union has started at home on reducing co2 emissions. energy efficiency is one of the most accurate ways. member states must have effective national action plans in this area, including financial mechanisms. the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity. every european should benefit from solutions like today's, because we are talking about many independent sectors - transport, new technologies, efficiency in buildings, production and transmission infrastructure. this document is a set of measures that not only protect the environment but also help national economies.
in writing. − i support the european parliament's decision to provide additional financial support for the lifelong learning and competitiveness and innovation programmes. the lisbon strategy 2011 aim of making the european union a competitive world and a knowledge-based economy, based on sustainable economic development and new jobs for better social cohesion, could be achieved through these programmes. in order to enhance the european union's competitiveness in the world, particular attention should be paid to small and medium-sized enterprises by providing them with the necessary assistance and financial support. in addition, investments in green innovation, research and development would promote the use of renewable energy sources, which would help create new sustainable jobs in a wide range of sectors, including energy, manufacturing, transport.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution and supported the eu budget for the year 2011. i welcome the agreement finally reached between the council, commission and european parliament and i hope it will be a sustainable budget that can be fully and predictably implemented from the beginning of the financial year. with the adoption of this resolution we, the european parliament, secure financing and continuity of the budget agreed upon by the council and the committee on budgets. i am convinced that it was necessary to allocate more funds to education, research and innovation as the eu needs to increase its efficiency and competitiveness to be able to rise from the financial and economic crisis. in order to reach this goal, the eu has to create a long-term strategy and this budget should be a part of it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the 2011 budget. this budget was adopted under the new procedure provided for by the treaty of lisbon. these long and difficult negotiations in the search for an agreement on the 2011 budget show that, once the new budgetary principles come into force, we will be forced to seek rational institutional compromises on the most important eu policy issues. for the first time since the entry into force of the new treaty, the european parliament has used its powers to participate fully in the formulation of the eu budget. the failure of the first attempt to agree and incorporate the ep's legitimate requirements shows that there are still institutional contradictions, which in principle should not exist and which create obstacles to effective institutional cooperation. the aim of all eu institutions is to ensure that the process of adopting agreements of major importance to the eu as a whole and its citizens runs as smoothly as possible. i therefore believe that the future will require a fundamental change in the very principles of the institutions' work and that the involvement of the european parliament in all stages of the negotiations, particularly in the budget, must be regarded as a crucial element in the implementation of the principle of representative democracy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the eu needs to cooperate more closely in the area of the law applicable to divorce and legal separation. i believe that an eu regulation in this area should be universal, i.e. that any law of a participating member state, a non-participating member state or a non-eu member state can be declared applicable on the basis of its universal conflict-of-law rules. the eu has set itself the objective of fostering and developing an area of freedom, security and justice in which the free movement of persons is ensured, and therefore, in order to allow spouses to choose freely the law with which they are closely connected, or, if they do not choose the law, in order to have that law applicable to their divorce or separation, it should apply even if it is not the law of a participating member state. increased mobility of citizens requires more flexibility and more legal certainty, which a new eu regulation can provide.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report by the european parliament on enhanced cooperation in the area of the law applicable to divorce and legal separation, as a clear and comprehensive legal framework is needed to apply the rules relating to the applicable law. i would like to point out that one of the main objectives of the european union is to preserve and develop an area of freedom, security and justice in which the free movement of persons is ensured. the legal situation at european level is currently very confusing as regards the divorce or separation of spouses of different nationalities, as it is not clear which law should apply. this often leads to a rush to court, where one spouse files for divorce before the other, in order to ensure that the case is dealt with under a particular legal system that better protects his interests. i would stress that the proposed new regulation should provide legal certainty for the couples concerned and ensure predictability and flexibility.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that a monitoring and surveillance tool for credit rating agencies is necessary. the initiative was affected by the global financial crisis, which was also partly the fault of credit rating agencies. i support the european commission's proposal that the european securities and markets authority (esma) should accredit and supervise credit rating agencies. however, it is necessary for esma to be able to exercise its powers from the time of its establishment in order to ensure the sound supervision of credit rating agencies operating in the european union and of third-country agencies whose ratings are to be authorised for use in the european union.
in writing. − the emergence of the global financial crisis has made it clear that a tool for the monitoring and supervision of credit rating agencies is needed. there is a need for a common system of supervision and control of credit rating agencies in the european union. i voted in favor of this important document. in 2009, regulation (ec) no 1060/2009 was adopted on credit rating agencies. its adoption has enabled the establishment at european level of a system for the registration and supervision of credit rating agencies that provide credit ratings for use in the european union. it also lays down the conditions for the use of ratings provided by third country agencies in the european union. the need for a robust supervisory and control system in the european union is why i support the proposed amendments which will strengthen the european securities and markets authority. the authority should be fully involved in the supervision of credit rating agencies operating in the eu and should effectively exercise the powers conferred on it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the economic and financial crisis which has affected the world has shown the need for a tool for the monitoring and supervision of credit rating agencies. for this reason, the european commission has submitted a proposal for a regulation setting out the procedure by which the european securities and markets authority should accredit and supervise credit rating agencies. the important point is that this authority will be given independent supervisory powers, as well as investigative powers and it will be able to punish for non-compliance with this regulation. i agree with the european parliament's position that there is a need for a common system of supervision of credit rating agencies and control of their products in the european union. parliament also proposed to focus on the involvement of the european securities and markets authority in the supervisory activities of the agencies and the definition of new tasks and new powers for the institution. it is essential that the european securities and markets authority be able to exercise its powers from the moment of its establishment in order to ensure the sound supervision of credit rating agencies operating in the european union and of third-country agencies whose ratings are to be authorised for use in the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the global financial crisis, which is also partly the fault of credit rating agencies, has made it clear that a monitoring and surveillance tool for credit rating agencies is needed. to this end, the regulation on credit rating agencies was adopted in 2009. its adoption has enabled the establishment at european level of a system for the registration and supervision of credit rating agencies that provide credit ratings for use in the european union. it also lays down the conditions for the use of ratings provided by third country agencies in the european union. the establishment of the european supervisory mechanism, which will enter into force on 1 january 2011, provides for esma to exercise the supervisory powers conferred on it, in particular in relation to credit rating agencies. it is therefore necessary to amend the regulation on credit rating agencies in order to establish the procedure according to which esma should accredit and supervise credit rating agencies. the authority will be granted independent supervisory powers, including investigative powers, and will be able to impose sanctions for non-compliance with this regulation. the fines shall be fixed by the member states.
in writing. − i voted for this document because it contributes to the much needed simplification of the eu legal framework. i believe that the eight directives currently in force in the field of metrology make it more difficult than it is easy to work in this field. at the same time, i support the rapporteur's position that member states should be given more time to examine whether repealing directives would create legal uncertainty, which would require harmonisation of rules at european level. i therefore believe that a decision should be adopted repealing the directives, while allowing sufficient time to examine the possible consequences in the light of a wider review of the main legal instruments in this area.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important resolution because i am convinced that the european citizens' initiative will be an important tool for setting thematic guidelines and will encourage more active international debate in the eu. the citizens' initiative gives european citizens the right to submit a proposal for a legislative act. the effectiveness of the initiative requires that the organisers of the european citizens' initiative are encouraged to form a citizens' committee composed of representatives from different member states. this would ensure that questions of a truly european nature are raised and help to gather signatures from the outset. i believe that the success of a citizens' initiative depends on the eu regulation being tailored to the citizens and not imposing burdensome requirements that frustrate the organisers. it is also essential that the implementation of the initiative complies with eu data protection requirements and that the implementation process of the initiative is fully transparent from start to finish. the citizens' initiative is a new instrument of participatory democracy at european level and therefore great attention should be paid to communication and information campaigns to raise awareness of the european citizens' initiative.
in writing. − i support the decision taken by the european parliament on the right of the european citizens' initiative to submit a legislative proposal. it is hoped that the initiative will bring citizens directly into contact with the eu institutions, bridge the gap between them and ensure that the eu institutions address issues of importance to citizens. the european citizens' initiative will allow citizens to ask the european commission directly to initiate legislation. the commission will decide what action should be taken in the light of successful citizens' initiatives. the european parliament, by organising public hearings or adopting resolutions, will be able to help achieve these objectives. as this initiative is new, it would be useful for the commission to report every three years on the implementation of this regulation and to propose the necessary amendments, if necessary. in order to ensure the effective application of the initiative, complicated administrative procedures should be avoided. it is also necessary to ensure that the initiative complies with eu data protection requirements.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the right of initiative of citizens of the european union, as provided for in the treaty of lisbon, is an extremely important step towards closer relations between the european union and european citizens. the new initiative will give citizens the same powers of political initiative as the european parliament and the council. it will also improve their chances of being heard and help to draw the attention of the european institutions to some of the issues of importance to society. such a relationship is mutually beneficial. the initiative will ensure that the european union institutions address specific problems of concern to citizens. the european parliament will also be able to help citizens to achieve these objectives by all the means at its disposal, by supporting selected citizens' initiatives, for example by organising public hearings or adopting resolutions. however, the european union must ensure that the implementation of the initiative complies with the data protection requirements of the european union and that the implementation process of the initiative is fully transparent from start to finish. only by ensuring a safe environment for citizens to submit proposals will we be able to win their trust and stimulate their interest in the work of the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the european citizens' initiative is a new instrument of participatory democracy at european level, an instrument which should be used by citizens themselves and which aims to strengthen direct democracy, active citizenship and the influence of european citizens on the policies of the european union. this initiative was provided for in the treaty establishing a constitution for europe and subsequently in the treaty of lisbon, with the aim of giving citizens the same powers of political initiative as those enjoyed by the council of ministers and the european parliament. it is good that the report encourages the use of modern technology as a suitable instrument for participatory democracy. the initiative will bring citizens and institutions directly into contact, bridge the gap between them and ensure that the eu institutions address specific issues of concern to citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the position prepared by the european parliament on the citizens' initiative, as i fully support this new right of citizenship provided for by the lisbon treaty. i am optimistic that this could be one of the main ways of bringing the eu institutions closer to ordinary people. finally, the active citizens will be able to have a direct influence on decisions taken at eu level. it must be admitted that, at a time when many european initiatives are receiving a fairly critical public response, the citizens' initiative has received a mostly positive assessment and support from the outset. i hope that in the end we will have clear rules, free from unnecessary bureaucratic requirements, which will help the european public to express its views.
in writing. − i would like to draw your attention to certain very important issues that are missing from the commission work programme for next year. these concern issues related to human rights. does the commission intend to initiate any specific actions or legislation in the area of human rights during the next year? we have heard that vice-president of the commission and high representative for foreign and security policy baroness ashton intends to pay special attention to human rights during her term in office. however, there has been very little attention paid so far to human rights in her actions and statements. the external action service is also meant to beef up eu action in the area of human rights, but now that there is no eu budget for 2011 the eeas will not be able to fully undertake its duties as from 1 january 2011. can you, mr president, tell us what your plan b is and how you intend to strengthen the eu’s credibility when it comes to defending and promoting human rights in the world?
in writing. − i voted in favour of this joint european parliament resolution because it discusses and assesses the priorities of the european commission's activities in 2011 and the challenges for the future. at the last plenary session in parliament in strasbourg, commission president josé manuel barroso presented the commission's work programme for the coming year, and the european parliament therefore believes that it is essential to establish a dialogue with the commission and to pay particular attention to the eu's key strategic objectives. parliament also called on the commission to ensure that the timetable for the most important proposals is realistic and clearer, so that it is effective, adapted to the real situation and better implemented than before. i would like to point out that, although the commission is committed to creating new jobs as quickly as possible and to accelerating the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, unfortunately the commission's programme for the coming year in the field of employment and social affairs does not contain any concrete proposals for the creation of new and quality jobs. as in last year's action programme, the commission is again proposing the same legislative initiatives on the posting of workers and working time and is further committed to improving the rights of migrant workers across the european union. a comprehensive recovery therefore requires a common european strategy for sustainable growth and jobs, based on the necessary mandates and resources.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the eu and the african union need to address together key common challenges in order to successfully implement the africa-european union partnership, which is based on the mutual interest in exploiting the common potential. the eu and the african union have agreed to continue to work together in the framework of the african union (au) and the african union (au) to promote the development of the african continent. i therefore support calls for all actors to take a stronger political stance in the future to make clear to african countries that the eu believes strongly in the rule of law and democracy. it is also important that all african union member states ratify the african union charter on democracy, elections and governance and fully support the work of the international criminal court. this would ensure the principles of democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights, while opening up the possibility of effective cooperation in economic, social, cultural and other fields.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. it is necessary to further develop the strategic partnership between africa and the european union in order to jointly address common challenges, promote sustainable economic growth, and expand cooperation in the fields of energy, trade, climate change. the development of cooperation requires strong support for the fight against poverty, the protection of human rights, including social, economic and environmental rights, and the promotion of peace and security on the african continent. i welcome the cooperation between africa and the eu in the field of renewable energy and the commitments to provide modern and sustainable energy services to the people of africa, to increase the use of renewable energy in africa and to improve energy efficiency across all sectors. the eu and africa should join efforts to reduce carbon emissions from deforestation and forest loss and take other effective measures to combat climate change. it is necessary to provide the necessary funding for the implementation of the actions identified, ensuring effective parliamentary oversight of the use of eu financial assistance.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the effective protection and promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms are the cornerstones of democracy and the rule of law in the eu. i therefore support the commitment of the treaty of lisbon to ensure the protection of fundamental human rights, to combat social exclusion and discrimination, and to promote social justice and social protection. to achieve this, it is necessary to ensure cooperation between the european union and national institutions by establishing an effective interinstitutional cooperation framework for monitoring the human rights situation in the eu. the commission should monitor the implementation of human rights legislation at national level on an ongoing basis and, if shortcomings are identified, propose specific measures. it would be useful to draw up an annual report on the situation of fundamental rights in the eu. ensure that eu citizens are properly informed about the fundamental rights framework. in addition, the eu institutions should enhance cooperation with international organisations in the field of human rights.
in writing. − i welcome the fact that, with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, we have made important progress in the field of human rights, firstly because the charter of fundamental rights of the european union has become legally binding and secondly because the european union is obliged to accede to the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. i voted in favour of this report because it is of the utmost importance for the european union's strategy on the rights of the child to develop practical measures to combat violence against children, sexual exploitation and child pornography, and to develop measures to ensure safe use of the internet, child labour and the eradication of child poverty. another important and urgent human rights challenge is the fight against trafficking in human beings, especially women and children. despite the fact that a number of eu and national laws have already been adopted in this area, several hundred thousand people are trafficked into or within the eu each year, and the new proposed eu directive on combating trafficking in human beings needs to be implemented as a matter of urgency.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it is necessary to take measures to prevent unfair commercial practices in the field of advertising, which in particular have a negative impact on consumers. in order to achieve real results, it is important to strengthen european cooperation in the fight against unfair practices in online advertising, and the most vulnerable (children, adolescents, elderly, etc.) must be given special protection. it should be noted that there is a lack of information on consumer rights in advertising, and i therefore support the proposal to facilitate access to information and increase transparency. in addition, it is necessary to encourage consumers to be critical of the media in terms of the quality of the content, because a well-informed consumer is a stronger consumer. i think that in the absence of knowledge of advertising techniques, it would be effective to develop a specific educational programme for children and adults to help them better understand, interpret and manage the advertising medium.
in writing. − with the rapid development of advertising technologies and the proliferation of advertising on the internet, mobile phones and social networks, effective measures are needed to protect the consumer from the effects of unwanted and misleading advertising. particular attention should be paid to the most vulnerable groups of persons, including children, adolescents. it is also necessary to strengthen cooperation between member states in the fight against unfair practices in online advertising in order to avoid distortions of the internal market and the consequences of unfair practices. it is also necessary to provide consumers with more information on their rights in the field of advertising, to make this information more accessible and to increase its transparency. the commission should regularly monitor and evaluate the application of the legislation regulating unfair commercial practices in the member states and draw up reports on the implementation of the legislation. as information on the social and psychological effects of advertising on the consumer is still lacking, it is necessary to take steps to investigate these effects.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it deals with unfair commercial practices in advertising and also focuses on the problems associated with the development of new advertising technologies and activities. i would like to point out that advertising has a major impact on equality between women and men, especially where advertising often contains discriminatory and/or degrading information based on various gender stereotypes. i therefore support the european parliament's call for the european commission and the member states to ensure that media and advertising professionals ensure respect for human dignity and make every effort to combat discrimination and hatred on grounds of sex, racial or ethnic origin, age, religion or other belief, sexual orientation, disability or social status. as regards the protection of vulnerable groups, the commission should carry out an investigation into the impact of misleading and aggressive advertising on vulnerable consumers. i would like to stress that children, adolescents and the elderly in particular need to be protected from the negative effects of advertising.
in writing. − i have supported this report because it deals with unfair commercial practices in advertising as provided for in the unfair commercial practices directive and focuses on the problems associated with the development of new advertising technologies and activities. advertising is a tool that benefits both the internal market as a kind of fuel for economic activity (it stimulates competition, competitiveness, innovation and creativity) and consumers (it offers a wide range of choices and lowers prices). it is a major economic sector, accounting for more than eur 14 billion of the european market for online advertising alone. however, it should not be idealised: dishonest activities, intrusion into public (e.g. advertising booths) and private (e.g. unsolicited emails) spaces, advertising to vulnerable people (e.g. children, people with high debts), creating potential barriers to entry into the internal market (when the necessary advertising costs are too high), distortion of the internal market (buying goods or services that consumers would not normally buy) can also lead to significant losses. in view of these and other problems arising from the use of new technologies, the rapporteur therefore proposes a series of measures to protect consumers. although the targeting of advertising to individuals is not a problem in itself (the goods or services offered correspond to the interests of the consumer, etc.), it should not encourage the creation of addictive advertising based on the tracking of consumers' online activities and which infringes the principles of data protection and privacy.
in writing. - modern advertising has long outgrown the legal regulation of this area. online advertising - in search engines, e-mail, social networks, online television and mobile phones - is often delivered to consumers without their consent, often using data collected about them, sometimes without their knowledge or full awareness. moreover, there are endless loopholes in the legal regulation of such advertising (e.g. even after alcohol advertising has been banned on television, it is still available to minors on internet portals). on the other hand, online advertising very easily crosses national borders. the initiative to strengthen the regulation of such advertising, protecting consumers, their privacy and personal data against illegal or disproportionate use, is therefore very welcome.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because we are committed to the environment, to finding cost-effective energy sources and to combating climate change. sustainable development is needed, but economic development is also important. these two aspects must be reconciled. you can't fight climate change without thinking about energy efficiency. this requires detailed, realistic targets and penalties to ensure that energy consumption is not based on economic benefits alone. energy efficiency is most relevant in buildings, as they have a huge potential for energy savings. i therefore support the rapporteur's view that there is a need to focus on the renovation of existing buildings, as the number of new buildings in the eu is decreasing and most old buildings, if properly renovated, can make a very significant contribution to energy savings.
in writing. − while the adoption of the energy efficiency action plan in 2006 was a major step forward, the political and economic conditions have changed considerably since then. it is therefore necessary to review the eu's energy efficiency policy and align it with current priorities and trends. energy efficiency is the cheapest way to reduce co2 and other gas emissions. the benefits are significant and include both economic development and job creation. i believe that a careful assessment of the strengths and weaknesses of the 2006 energy efficiency action plan is necessary to provide a basis for a review of eu energy efficiency policy. it is becoming increasingly clear that the eu will not reach its 20% target and that more effective measures to promote energy efficiency are needed. the renovation of existing buildings needs to be given a high priority, as progress in this area has been limited so far. building construction in the eu is declining and most old buildings have the highest savings potential if they are properly renovated. this would also reduce the eu's overall energy dependence.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because concrete measures are needed to implement the energy efficiency action plan, especially as it becomes increasingly clear that the eu will not achieve its 20% target for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. i would like to point out that energy efficiency is the most cost-effective way to reduce co2 and other emissions. it also provides a unique opportunity to support and create new jobs while reducing dependence on energy imports. the european parliament therefore calls on the european commission to develop a new action plan for energy efficiency that takes into account the needs of vulnerable energy consumers. calls on the member states to adopt appropriate measures and effective policies, such as national action plans or targeted social measures to reduce energy deficits, and to report regularly on their actions in this regard; the commission should also be responsible for providing all statistical data on the development of the main elements of the energy policy of the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it aims to increase energy efficiency by at least 20% by 2020 and to make progress in the transition to a sustainable and green economy. the benefits are significant and include both economic development and job creation. jobs will be created in both rural and urban areas. it is well known that buildings have enormous potential for energy savings. this is why there is a need to focus on the renovation of existing buildings, as new construction is declining in the eu and most old buildings have the highest savings potential when properly renovated. in the field of clean technologies, there is a need to bridge the gap between the us and china on the one hand and the eu on the other. both countries are ahead of the eu in adopting legislation to promote energy-saving decisions. the eu and the member states should therefore support measures that promote funding. the use of the financial instrument at european level should accelerate the establishment of national energy saving funds supporting energy efficiency treaties (eets). energy efficiency agreements (eeas), where the customer purchases the guaranteed amount of energy saved, are beneficial because the investment is recovered over a period of 2 to 15 years. this model creates jobs for smes, lowers energy bills for consumers and reduces emissions.
the rapporteur. - your excellency, it is a great pleasure to see you here today, taking part in this very important debate. the european council also welcomed the commission's intention to continue to work towards the establishment of a european union-wide network of contacts with third countries. the basis for this debate and the european parliament's resolution on which we will vote tomorrow is the annual report on the situation of human rights in the world and the european union's policy on the matter, adopted by the council of the european union. we cannot hold ms ashton responsible for the actions discussed in the report, i.e. in 2008/2009 as she was not yet in the position of high representative for foreign and security policy at that time. we understand the great responsibility you have both now and in the future, and i want to assure you that we in the european parliament will do everything to ensure that the european union's foreign policy objectives are achieved. mrs c. ashton, the treaty of lisbon has been in force for a year now, and the european external action service has only been operational for a couple of weeks. with its report today, the european parliament is sending a clear signal to all the institutions of the european union. the european parliament has clearly stated its position that the new european external action service should give priority to strengthening democracy and the protection of human rights in the world, and that this should be reflected in both the structure and funding of the service. this may be a human rights and democracy, international law directorate or a structure with a different name but the same content. what we should avoid is the marginalization or the pushing of human rights issues off the main agenda of the european union and the structure of the european external action service. to this end, the european parliament proposes to create, within the framework of the service, the posts of special representative for human rights, who would work in specific countries or regions, in particular where the european union has no diplomatic representation. these special representatives should have a clear mandate to protect human rights in the countries in which they work. i would also like to stress once again the need for the cohom human rights working group in brussels, especially since the vast majority of the member states of the european union support this idea. the report on which we will vote tomorrow here in the european parliament discusses and evaluates the policy of the european union, the activities of the european union as a whole and its institutions, covering the whole range of themes and issues: abolition of the death penalty, the fight against terrorism and human rights, the rights of the child, the fight against violence against women, the situation of human rights defenders in different countries of the world, freedom of religion or belief. we discuss and evaluate the european union's performance in international fora such as the united nations, the un human rights council, the european union's cooperation with the international criminal court. our report under consideration, which was very much involved in the preparation of my fellow meps and which was adopted by a huge majority in the committee on foreign affairs: 50 votes in favour, 0 against and 2 abstentions, is supplemented by a list of specific human rights violations in various countries which have been brought to the attention of the european parliament. these are specific names, countries, people's fates, lives lost. i would therefore like to conclude by mentioning a few specific cases of gross violations of human rights. you are well aware that the european parliament was to award the sakharov prize today, and you were present at the ceremony, to the cuban dissident guillermo farín. we could not do that because the cuban authorities did not allow mr g. farin to come to the european parliament. we hope that in the course of your duties you will take this fact into account and find a way to express our position, our disappointment and our regret and disapproval on this matter to the cuban authorities. i would also like to draw your attention to another sad case which we have referred to in our report. one of them was scheduled to be sentenced today by the russian chamovnichevsky court, but for reasons unknown, the sentencing was postponed until the end of the month. this is the trial of mikhail khodorkovsky and platon lebedev, which we believe is a mirror of the state of the judicial system and the lack of the rule of law in russia. i would urge you, mrs c. ashton, to remember these cases and to work to make justice the norm in russia, not the exception. i believe that the current russian opening up and president medvedev's drive to modernise russia is a very good opportunity to pursue this goal.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, honourable members, on friday we celebrated international human rights day. this year’s theme highlighted the work of individuals and organisations worldwide who fight human rights violations, specifically discrimination. over this past year i have met nobel prize winner shirin ebadi on iran and frontline award winner, afghanistan’s human rights commissioner for women dr soria sabhrang, and other human rights defenders across the world and i will continue to do so. as i have expressed previously, i fully expect my colleagues in brussels and the heads of our eu delegations to do the same. six months ago i stood before you to present a first vision of how the european union should conduct its policy on human rights. today i want to set out how work has been proceeding since then and how i see the way ahead now with the support of the european external action service. but first of all i am very grateful to dr andrikienė for her report which responds to the eu’s annual report on human rights and sets out the european parliament’s vision for how we can make our approach to human rights in the european union more effective. this is an ambition which i strongly share. the range of eu action and challenges we face are well reflected in the report before the house today: attacks on human rights defenders, sexual violence, use of new technologies to curb freedom of expression, to name but a few. i want to pay tribute to dr andrikienė for bringing together more than 400 amendments in this impressive, informative and extremely useful report. the report covers a lot of ground and i want to pick up three important developments of recent months. first and foremost, the eu has been working hard to advance the cause of human rights on the multilateral stage. in a successful session of the un human rights council, the european union held a common position on potentially divisive resolutions concerning the gaza flotilla and the goldstone report. at the general assembly third committee, the eu also achieved its chief objectives: resolutions on burma, dprk and the death penalty were all passed with increased majorities – as was the canadian resolution on iran – and the eu resolution on eliminating religious intolerance again met with consensus. secondly, as announced in june, work has begun on a review of eu human rights policy. it has been an inclusive process for which i sought input from member states’ parliamentarians, notably ms hautala and the subcommittee on human rights, as well as civil society ngos and academics. i will be asking the service and my senior team in the months ahead to consider the key themes arising from these consultations and how best we can put them into practice. i will count on parliament’s continued support in this endeavour. third, work has begun on streamlining the patchwork of policies which have grown up over the past ten years and which make up the eu's human rights policy guidelines: toolkits, other instruments, the guidelines we have got for promoting and protecting human rights. there are good reasons why policy has grown in such an organic way, but it seems like a good time to take stock and to move on and, for that ongoing work on the review, i see three lines of action. first of all, the need for europe to continue to speak up for human rights on the global stage. we are working to strengthen our action at the united nations and to resist attempts to dilute universal standards, the basis of our action. we need to find innovative ways of working with third-country partners to promote our shared values, as we have done successfully in the un general assembly vote on the death penalty resolution. we are also investing to ensure that our own record stands up to scrutiny. second, we need to tailor our approach to individual situations. that means establishing local human rights strategies for each country, reviewing our priorities and the most effective use of our assorted tools, for example by sharing experiences on child protection on the internet or how best to tackle child labour. third and finally, human rights should be visibly at the centre of eu external action. that means working human rights into the activities of all parts of the external action service, as well as the whole range of eu external action: trade, development, csdp and so on, and at all levels. that will be built into the structure at headquarters as well as throughout our delegations in order to be able to monitor the human rights situation and promote an effective realisation of eu human rights policy goals. human rights are the core of our eu identity and they go to the heart of what we do around the world. we have developed strong sets of mechanisms for promoting these values in different contexts with different partners; in the multilateral context and through support for civil society; funding specific human rights projects in over one hundred countries. nearly ten years on from the very first eu communication on human rights, and with the establishment of the new service, i want to ensure our human rights policy is effective, innovative and targeted: the silver thread that runs through all of our external action and a gold standard for our foreign policy. that is why i particularly welcome today the contribution in this report and i would also end by congratulating guillermo fariñas on the award of the sakharov prize for freedom of thought.
on behalf of the ppe group thank you, chairman. my dear mrs ashton! first of all, i would like to congratulate mrs andrikienes on the success of her report, which was adopted by virtually unanimous vote in the committee on foreign affairs. i also want to thank mrs. ashton for her very informative speech. the report on human rights in the world confirms the critical state of human rights in countries with which the european union has been engaged in human rights dialogues and consultations for many years. the report, for example, highlights that russia has still only implemented the first of the six-point agreement on georgia. half a million people are still unable to return to their homes in south ossetia and abkhazia. the european union has a serious responsibility to address such situations and i therefore call on the high representative to pay particular attention to addressing these issues. it would be unacceptable for the european union to spend a great deal of time and financial resources on human rights dialogues without producing good results. it is therefore clear that the european union's human rights policy needs to be substantially improved. first, by implementing a precise human rights strategy that sets out not only the tasks but also the structure to ensure regular performance evaluation and review of operational tactics. secondly, the european union's assessment of the human rights situation must be based solely on experience and certain criteria. we must not be swayed by pressure from a third country or by economic interests. thirdly, regular consultations with ngos at european union level should be introduced. ensuring human rights and democracy must be a priority for the eeas and an explicit criterion in bilateral agreements with third countries. thank you.
on behalf of the alde group, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and all the members who tabled amendments and participated in the debate on their interest and efforts in producing and improving this report on the situation of human rights in the world and the european union's policy in this area. i think that the rapporteur and her colleagues on the subcommittee on human rights and the committee on foreign affairs have taken up this challenge and have done a good job. the ideas and help we received from ngos helped us to improve the report. i would therefore urge all members to vote in favour of this report, which, after lengthy debates, amendments and discussions, reflects well the european parliament's position on human rights. as regards the amendments tabled, i would urge my colleagues not to elaborate on matters which have already been the subject of extensive discussion in committee. it is true that human rights problems abound, but there are also many countries that could be mentioned and called upon. however, the value of the report lies in its conciseness. the report would lose its effectiveness if it were to be extended indefinitely, and some of the amendments under consideration do not seem to me to be necessary. i would also like to draw the attention of my colleagues to a number of important changes which were not in the previous version of the report. among them is the amendment tabled by my group on sodium thiopental, calling for the production and sale of this substance, which can be used for capital punishment, to be allowed only for medical purposes. the adoption of this amendment would be an important step in the fight against the death penalty worldwide. i would ask my colleagues to support another amendment by our group calling on the european commission to take further action in implementing the commitments of the 2007 human rights report to strengthen efforts to combat violence. this document is not only a guide for the european commission, the council and the member states, but also a very strong, clear message for the european union's neighbours, partners and other countries where human rights are not sufficiently respected and protected. i hope that all stakeholders and institutions will take this report seriously and adopt its valuable recommendations.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, i should like to thank everyone for all the contributions to this debate, which i found extremely useful. can i just say that i am on the council side now but i was on the commission side earlier today? i move between the two, and we do keep a record to make sure that i move between the two, so you must just catch me when i am here. again, i would like to thank ms andrikienė very very much for the work that she has done, and congratulate her on the report, which has been extremely helpful. i am going to respond on three particular areas. i will begin with the issue which ms hautala raised right at the end and which a number of colleagues have mentioned. let me start by being absolutely clear: i talk about mainstreaming because i have seen, too often in my life, human rights relegated to the corner of an organisation and done as an afterthought in a way that is not going to make any kind of difference. i am not suggesting that is what the eu has done before. i am suggesting that i am determined to make sure it cannot happen again. as you will see in the structure when we finalise it, and we have not yet done so – human rights will be fully recognised in the structure and we are going to make sure we have the expertise that colleagues here have asked for within the structure. but i do not want it to sit in a corner. i want it to be part of everything that we do: a silver thread, not a filigree thread, a silver thread that is strong but that shines and is there for everyone to witness. that is what i want to achieve in my time in office and i feel 100% committed to trying to achieve that. it will take time and there will be things we cannot do as well as i would wish, but we will absolutely do our best. it matters to me, however, that this parliament understands what i am trying to do and that i am trying to make sure that it is everybody’s responsibility. yes, it should be monitored; yes, we need expertise; but it is not down to just a few people within the eas. it is the responsibility of everybody. that is the first thing to say. the second thing is that you will see the structures very soon, and it is in there. it is there for you all to witness as part of what we will be doing. on the working group chairs, we are going to put forward our proposals for appointments. i will be appointing the working group chair who will be responsible for human rights, and that will enable them to pick up the point that was made about whether capitals should have people gathered from the capitals or whether it should be based in brussels. we will pick that point up in that conversation. finally on structures: we have already done the training programme for new heads of delegations, and one session was about human rights. they are very clear about their responsibilities and about my and your expectations in that regard. so please accept that it is part – and a fundamental core – of the structure, but i will be determined to make it everybody’s responsibility. the second point was about the breadth of the issues. i recognise what a number of people have said about religious faith and i accept that this is an important issue. it was, in fact, part of our discussions at the foreign affairs council this week as well. colleagues have also mentioned the need to address the rights of women, of children and of lesbian, gay, transgender and bisexual people. i read into all that was said, about the different people and the different countries, the fundamental point about human rights, which is this: for them to apply to you, you simply need to be human and here. those are the criteria for human rights and that is, again, how we will approach this within the external action service. they belong to everybody. the third thing i wanted to say was just a bit about some of the things we are beginning to see happen and in which we are playing a part. this is particularly true on some of the work that we are doing internationally. the international criminal court this year saw four countries recognise and ratify the statute. that is very important because we played a part: i personally wrote to the ministers in every country that had not yet ratified, asking them to do so. these were countries which responded directly to us and which have ratified. equally, i would mention the importance, in the un general assembly committee, of trying to extend support for the moratorium on the death penalty. i think this is a core and fundamental part of the work that we should do. it is universal, it is something we all believe in, and it is the way forward that we should be practical in what we do. so three areas: firstly, making sure the structures are right and the people know and understand the core work they need to do; secondly, ensuring that we cover everyone in the work we do on human rights; and thirdly, ways in which we can make a difference. the final point i want to make is how i think that, more than anything, we have to look, within the review, for practical and innovative ways of getting our messages across. i want us to be really creative in working with people on the ground in different countries where we meet human rights defenders – and i do wherever i go. i want us to be innovative and creative in finding new ways of raising these issues of human rights, new ways beyond what is so important in any event: the statements that i make, the statements that we make as 27 member states and the statements that we make as the institutions of the european union. it is about finding ways in which we can do as much as possible to address the concerns. it is about individuals, organisations and the collective will to be able to make a real difference.
rapporteur. − madam president, first of all i have been told that the english interpretation of my speech was not accurate, and i am very sorry about this. immediately after this discussion i will translate my speech into english myself and will send it to all the colleagues concerned and also to the high representative. secondly, i would like to thank all the colleagues who participated in today’s debate for their positive assessment and for their critical remarks. with regard to my colleagues mr obermayr and mr poręba, who spoke about christian minorities in different countries, saying that this issue is not addressed in the report, i would like to draw their attention to paragraph 126 among others. we have a chapter that deals with freedom of religion, and christian minorities are also mentioned in some specific paragraphs. on a final note, i would like to assure baroness ashton that parliament will continue to scrutinise closely the work of the european external action service and will criticise inaction or the ineffectiveness of action taken in the area of human rights. in this year’s report, we clearly state that we are not satisfied by the fact that the eu still does not have clear benchmarks for assessing whether actions on human rights have produced results. we have also expressed our disappointment at the lack of progress achieved by the human rights dialogues and consultations. baroness ashton, parliament has come a long way to find common ground on human rights issues, especially the most sensitive ones. this shows that parliament stands united in the promotion of democracy and the protection of human rights in the world. it also shows that the days when parliament would merely applaud the commission or the council are over. parliament is now a serious player in the area of human rights. all actors operating in this field will have to take note of that. i would like to thank all those who have taken part in this debate.
citizens often debate the future of the european union. the foundation of a strong union and its future success depend on trust and mutual understanding, just as in the family. the european heritage label is a way for people to get to know each other, to discover the objects, the people and the movements that symbolise the creation of europe. the identification of a common cultural heritage is a way of establishing a common and united europe. all nations, all states, we all have different, diverse historical experiences, often painful, but it is these differences that make up our family, that form our european identity. i would like to highlight in particular the long-standing division of europe, the different possibilities or the complete absence of any for the development of democracy. i'm talking about eastern europe and the soviet occupation. but there has always been a struggle for the idea of a united europe and we have to assess the... (the president cut off the speaker)
i congratulate the rapporteur, doris pack, and fully support her recommendation on the 'youth in action' and lifelong learning programme and the participation of switzerland in this programme. i would say that switzerland is not only a beautiful and orderly country, but it is very interesting for the european union because of its direct democracy, because of the cantonal confederation. on the other hand, the european union cannot be uninteresting to switzerland, since switzerland is entirely surrounded by the countries of the european union. and finally, switzerland is matching its pulse with the european union. i think that this programme will make it possible to do that even better. switzerland will be closer to the european union, the european union will understand switzerland better, and, as our colleague doris pack has said, better results can be expected in the referendums.
i thank you for your work, ms doris pack, and i certainly support your recommendation that the european parliament should support the council decision on the participation of switzerland in the 'youth in action' and lifelong learning programmes, as the commission's agreement with the swiss authorities meets all the requirements, provisions and conditions. in addition, the swiss national agency will cooperate on the implementation of the programmes at national level and will contribute financially to each programme on an annual basis. this bilateral agreement is of great importance both for switzerland and for the european union, as young people in switzerland will be able to take advantage of the various opportunities offered by the 'youth in action' programme and vice versa. young european union citizens will be able to participate in all projects together with young swiss people. i am therefore pleased that switzerland, although not a member of the european union's economic area, is not a european union state, but cooperates closely with the european union in the fields of education, training and youth.
rapporteur. − madam president, we have an oral amendment to amendment 7. the text will read as follows: ‘urges the commission to draw up a list of individuals responsible for severe human rights violations, such as torture, censorship, rape and extra-judicial executions, in iran, particularly after the 2009 elections, and to consider imposing sanctions on them in the form of asset freezes and travel bans’.
rapporteur. − madam president, as there are some positive developments in russia, we would like to amend the sentence which starts with: ‘regrets that so far all strategy-31 demonstrations have been refused permission by the authorities’. the proposal is to replace the words ‘so far’ by ‘except for the very last one on 31 october 2010’.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the commission's proposal to use the european heritage label as one of the most effective means of bridging the gap between the european union and its citizens, by highlighting that europe's history is made up of a diverse and at the same time rich and complex common cultural heritage. i agree that the decision by the member states to implement the european heritage label initiative at eu level would not only provide greater visibility, prestige and credibility, but would also contribute to the long-held ideal of cohesion and solidarity among european citizens. i support the rapporteur's position that, given the symbolic importance of the sign promoting european integration, special attention should be given to heritage sites of international value, as they promote community-building and encourage links and cooperation between member states or regions. i believe that the idea of the european union heritage label, which aims to strengthen the sense of connection of european citizens with their common heritage (through the knowledge of history and participation in activities aimed at promoting intercultural dialogue) and to help to understand the eu's creation as a long ongoing process, is a step in this direction.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because european history is made up of a diverse and at the same time rich and complex common cultural heritage. it is a further demonstration of the european union's founding values of freedom, democracy, respect for human rights, cultural diversity, tolerance and solidarity. the european parliament, in the light of the acknowledged contribution of all european cultures to world culture, endorses the idea of a label which would be widely used outside the european union and used as an ambitious instrument of external policy. in order to achieve the political objective of the new european heritage label, it is proposed to pay particular attention to the symbolic and/or illustrative value of heritage sites. in addition, in order to share best practices and initiate joint projects, close cooperation between heritage sites that have been awarded a heritage label should be encouraged. i would like to emphasise that the decision by the member states to implement the european heritage label initiative at eu level would not only ensure greater visibility, prestige and credibility, but also contribute to the long-held ideal of cohesion and solidarity among european citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation because i am convinced that eu cooperation with switzerland in the fields of education, training and youth in the eu will bring mutual benefits in terms of improving and implementing these areas effectively. the participation of switzerland in the specific 'active youth' and 'lifelong learning' programmes 2007-2013 will give these programmes additional impetus, allowing for exchanges and sharing of experience between programme participants, while maintaining the financial and other interests of the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation by the european parliament because i support the draft council decision on the participation of switzerland in the 'youth in action' and 'lifelong learning' programmes. although switzerland has opted not to join the european economic area, it cooperates closely with the european union in the fields of education, training and youth. this agreement is appropriate as switzerland commits to the conditions and provisions laid down by the european commission. in addition, projects and initiatives submitted by the swiss side will be subject to the same conditions, rules and procedures as those applied to projects submitted by member states. switzerland shall comply with the financial control and audit provisions of the european union. under the bilateral agreement, switzerland will have to set up a national agency to cooperate on the implementation of the programmes at national level and to contribute financially to each programme on an annual basis (in 2011 €1.7 million for the youth programme and €14.2 million for the lifelong learning programme).
in writing. − i voted in favour of this 2009 report on the situation of human rights in the world and in the european union, as it examines, evaluates and, in specific cases, analyses the european union's activities in the field of human rights and democracy and sets out its future objectives. on violence against women, parliament expressed its deep concern at the prevalence of gender-based discrimination and domestic violence in some countries, and noted that women living in rural areas were a particularly vulnerable group. i therefore support parliament's demand that all human rights dialogues openly raise women's rights issues, in particular as regards the fight against and elimination of all forms of discrimination and violence against women and girls, all forms of harmful traditional practices or customs such as female genital mutilation, early or forced marriage, all forms of trafficking in human beings, domestic violence and the killing of women, exploitation at the workplace and economic exploitation. as millions of children continue to be victims of rape, domestic violence and physical, emotional and sexual violence, i agree that the european union must urgently take additional measures to tackle child labour and to apply existing measures more effectively.
in writing. − although more than 60 years have passed since the universal declaration of human rights was signed, there are still many places in the world where the declaration is a mere sheet of paper. unfortunately, there are many such places in europe, the continent that gave birth to the protection of human rights as a principle of democracy. the european union, which we can confidently call the global leader in the protection of human rights, is working hard to ensure that at least minimum standards of human rights protection are also guaranteed elsewhere in the world. i therefore congratulate my colleague, mrs laima andrikien, on her truly comprehensive report, which has drawn attention to the complex situation in the world. i hope that this report will help to improve the situation and that in future such reports will be shorter.
in writing. − i voted for this year's ep report on human rights, as it covers countries both geographically close to the eu and far away. in the report, the ep strongly urges china, the world's largest executioner, to make public the number of executions carried out in the country, in order to allow for a transparent analysis and debate on the subject. this should make this country move faster to abandon this barbaric form of punishment. on the other hand, it's a shame that this punishment is still used in the democratic united states. the report expresses concern about children involved in armed conflict, who suffer from it or are even forced to take an active part in it. in my amendments to this report, adopted by the ep's foreign affairs committee, i urge the commission and the council to step up their efforts to ensure that the eu guidelines on the involvement of children in armed conflict are complied with in their relations with third countries. i also call on the eu and un institutions to work towards the immediate disarmament, rehabilitation and reintegration of children actively engaged in armed conflict. i call on the north korean authorities to take concrete and tangible measures to improve the human rights situation. invites pyongyang to allow independent international experts to inspect all types of detention facilities and to allow un special rapporteurs to enter the country. i also call on north korea to lift the ban on international staff monitoring aid distribution and to ensure that international aid is delivered to those who need it most.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution and supported a pragmatic approach towards afghanistan and the new counter-insurgency policy which is geared to protecting the local population and rebuilding areas where security has been ensured. the new counter-insurgency policy must be given time to show results, there should be a political solution and negotiations with all sides should take place. i am convinced that any long-term solution must include concrete measures for the eradication of poverty, under-development and discrimination against women, enhancing respect for human rights and the rule of law, strengthening reconciliation mechanisms, ensuring an end to opium production, engaging in a robust state-building exercise, and fully integrating afghanistan into the international community, as well as banishing al-qa’ida from the country. we have to pay tribute to the servicemen and women of all the allied forces who have lost their lives in defending freedom, and to express condolences to their families, as well as to the families of all innocent afghan victims.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that this document strengthens the role of the european parliament in its relations with the commission. i share the view of the committee on foreign affairs that it is essential, in order for parliament to be able to exercise its prerogatives fully and in a timely manner, to encourage the commission to actively inform parliament of all draft measures, amended draft measures and final draft measures which it intends to adopt pursuant to article 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which provides that where legally binding union acts are to be implemented under uniform conditions and implementing powers are to be conferred on the commission, the control of the exercise of such implementing powers by the commission shall be exercised solely by the member states. i believe that, in view of the specificity and political sensitivity of the implementing acts to be adopted under the external financial assistance instruments and in the light of the experience gained in the democratic monitoring dialogue, parliament should be given the opportunity to contribute to this process of defining the content of the draft implementing acts to be adopted under the external financial assistance instruments.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the financial stability of the euro requires a permanent crisis management mechanism. the european stability mechanism and/or the european monetary fund should be based on solidarity, should be subject to strict conditionality rules and should be financed, inter alia, by fines imposed on member states following the excessive deficit, excessive debt or excessive imbalance procedure. i also think it is important that the financing of the permanent crisis management mechanism should be based on the 'polluter pays' principle, i.e. member states that are more at risk of their deficit and debt burden should allocate a higher share of the overall funds. these sanctions would be one way of avoiding the kind of financial and economic crisis in the euro area countries that started in greece a few months ago and is still going on.
in writing. − this year saw major decisions to establish the eu's economic governance and financial supervision framework. the eu will establish a european systemic risk board, which will be responsible for overseeing the macroprudential risk management of the financial system in order to avoid periods of severe financial distress, contribute to the smooth functioning of the market and ensure the sustainable contribution of the financial sector to the growth of the eu economy. i support the proposal to create a permanent european stability mechanism and thus further strengthen the economic governance framework to ensure effective and thorough economic surveillance and coordination with a strong focus on prevention. i agree with the proposal in the resolution that non-euro area member states should also be given the opportunity to participate in the establishment of this mechanism and to receive financial assistance when necessary.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution which discusses the need for member states to establish a permanent crisis management mechanism to ensure financial stability throughout the euro area. this measure aims at ensuring effective and thorough economic surveillance and coordination, with a focus on prevention and a significantly reduced likelihood of future recurrence of a crisis. in order to increase the efficiency of current economic policy coordination processes and to eliminate duplication and to ensure that the european union strategy is understood by market players and citizens, a shift to more integrated strategies and a change in the decision-making process is necessary. i agree that the european parliament's participation in the legislative procedures relating to the crisis management mechanism should be strengthened, thereby improving democratic accountability and taking advantage of the commission's qualifications, independence and impartiality. as the european stability mechanism is intended to complement the new enhanced economic governance framework, parliament calls on the commission, after consulting the european central bank, to present a communication detailing this permanent crisis management mechanism.
in writing. − i supported the motions for resolutions on the need to establish a permanent crisis management mechanism that is reliable, robust, durable and takes account of the most important technical innovations, and that it should be based on the community method, thus ensuring stability in the markets and greater certainty.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls for the restoration of democratic governance in côte d'ivoire following the presidential elections held on 28 november 2010. the decision of the illegitimate constitutional council of côte d'ivoire, whose members were all appointed by the president at the end of his term, to change the results announced by the electoral commission in violation of the law that the constitutional council is obliged to implement, is contrary to the will of the people of côte d'ivoire as expressed in their votes in the elections. this decision must be reversed, otherwise the country will not emerge from the current post-election political impasse and the reported violence will increase. therefore, for the welfare of the people of côte d'ivoire and for peace in the country, i support the appeal to mr gbagbo to step down and hand over power to mr ouattara, to whom the voters have given their votes of confidence.
