mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the 8 p.m. news reminds us every night that suffering in haiti has no name. perhaps the suffering is matched only by the almost planetary compassion that surrounds it. such compassion, though spontaneous and sincere, is short-lived. in two weeks' time, when the media has chosen to focus on other events, it will be the moment of truth. if the recovery is not assured, haitians will again be left to their fate. in a country where everything remains to be done, starting with rehabilitation and reconstruction, it is important to act so that the various sequences lead to real development. the european union, on the other hand, has a multi-toolbox and a strong track record in this area. the challenges facing haitian society, which is sorely lacking in resources, are therefore also a moment of truth for the european union. it is in the days and months ahead that effective and determined action will be required. this is the most important aspect of the recovery process after the restoration of the conditions of security and public order which are essential for any coordinated action in a country where everything has suffered from the earthquake, including institutional structures. i therefore think it is appropriate to emphasize one essential aspect: the recovery, the reconstruction of the haitian state must be the work of the haitian people themselves. it's about their development. we can help them, in a spirit of partnership. europe would do well to make this clear at the international conferences provided for this purpose. yes to partnership, no to paternalism and neo-colonialism!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it only takes an attempted attack to make the right to the security of our fellow citizens seem trivial. the protection of our societies requires us to constantly seek the balance between security and freedom. the right to protection, in particular against a terrorist attack, is laid down in article 188r of the treaty of lisbon, and more specifically in article 4 thereof, which empowers the union and its member states to act effectively. the same paragraph states that the european council must regularly assess the threats facing the union. i would ask mrs ashton to clarify whether and to what extent the european union and its member states have acted in accordance with this provision. in your view, does cooperation within the european union allow you to say that the failures at the level of american intelligence, which appeared in connection with the recent attempt to bomb flight 253 from amsterdam to detroit, could not take place in the european union? a very central question in this debate is whether the name of the alleged terrorist was known to european intelligence services, to all european intelligence services. if not, what conclusions should it draw? does the commission consider that the current level of coordination and exchange of information between intelligence services is such as to exclude such a breakdown in the european union? does the high representative consider that the capacity of the intelligence services of the member states to cooperate in the spirit of solidarity, as enshrined in article 188r, is sufficient? the citizens have a right to demand that the terrorist threat be handled in a responsible manner. they would not understand that the european union is continuing to send more and more swift-type personal data to the united states and that the union itself has shortcomings in prevention and intelligence.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, it is my pleasure to discuss tax matters with you today, the last day of my mandate as commissioner responsible for taxation and customs. i would like to express my thanks first of all to the european parliament, and especially to the committee on economic and monetary affairs for the support the commission and i have received during the last five years for most, if not all, the tax proposals we presented. the tax policy issues you are current discussing have a major role in order to achieve the commission’s objective to better tackle tax fraud and evasion which results in the loss of eur 200 billion to eur 250 billion a year at eu level. we are also aiming to increase transparency and cooperation. i would like to express my special thanks to mr domenici, mrs alvarez, mr stolojan and mr casa, for dealing with these tax initiatives in a constructive manner. i am very pleased that the essential message of the reports is one of support for the commission’s initiatives. i understand that the reports encourage increased efforts concerning, firstly, good governance in tax matters both in the european union and beyond; secondly, administrative cooperation in the tax area; thirdly, mutual assistance in the recovery of tax claims; and, fourthly, the fight against vat fraud, in particular carousel fraud. concerning good governance in tax matters, the commission’s policy is aimed at promoting the principles of transparency, the exchange of information and fair tax competition on a global scale. the commission adopted the communication in april 2009, promoting these principles in order to combat cross-border tax fraud and evasion both within the eu and beyond and to achieve a level playing field. the commission has tabled several proposals in order to improve good governance within the eu. the debate is ongoing on these proposals, but i hope that they will be adopted soon and that it will reinforce our arguments vis-à-vis other jurisdictions to take similar steps. the commission strongly believes that the deepening of economic relations between the eu and its partner jurisdictions should always be accompanied by commitments to good governance principles. based on the 2008 council conclusions, the objective is to introduce in relevant agreements with third countries a provision on the basis of which eu partners would recognise and commit themselves to implement the principles of good governance in the tax area. particular attention needs to be paid to developing countries. the commission services are currently preparing a communication which would be dedicated to good governance in tax matters in the specific context of development cooperation. this communication will address what role good governance in tax matters can play in improving resources mobilisation in developing countries, notably through capacity building. i welcome your support to fully associate the commission in the works of the oecd global forum peer review exercise, in particular with regard to the identification of non-cooperative jurisdictions, the development of a process for evaluating compliance and the implementation of measures to promote adherence to the standards. the european commission should continue to be an active player to ensure that all partners live up to their commitments. in relation to the number – which is 12 – of tax information exchange agreements for a country to conclude for achieving the status of a cooperating jurisdiction, the commission supports the need to review it and to take qualitative aspects into account such as firstly, the jurisdictions with which the agreements have been signed. to be explicitly clear, a tax haven which has 12 agreements with other tax havens would certainly not pass the threshold. secondly, the willingness of a jurisdiction to continue to sign agreements even after it has reached this threshold and thirdly, the effectiveness of implementation. as regards your request to examine a range of options for sanctions and incentives to promote good tax governance in tax matters, the commission is already examining a range of incentives to promote good governance at eu level. for example, the enhanced use of development aid in order to encourage certain third countries to move away from unfair tax competition. work on possible sanctions is less advanced, and of course any eu action must take into account individual member states’ tax policies. there are, however, two specific areas where i do not entirely agree with you. one relates to the public registries and disclosure of information concerning investors in tax havens. i think a balance must be established between privacy and the need for jurisdictions to enforce their tax laws. while there should be no restrictions on exchange on the basis of bank secrecy or domestic tax interest requirements, respect for taxpayers’ rights and strict confidentiality of information exchanged must apply. these limits have to be respected, so a public register may not be the best solution. the other concern is transfer pricing. you propose shifting to the comparable profit methods in order to better identify inaccurate transaction prices and the most frequently applied tax-evasion techniques. in my view, while it is true that a comparison of industry sector profits may be an indicator that something is amiss, that single indicator alone is not sufficient to conclusively identify inappropriate transfer pricing and could only be one factor in a much wider risk assessment of the accuracy of prices charged on transactions between subsidiaries of a multinational company. the comparative profit method is acceptable but only if it arrives at the same result as the transactional methods. going straight to the comparative profit method – as the amendment seems to suggest – would not necessarily give us the ‘right’ arms-length answer. the proposed new directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation seeks to enhance and streamline all mechanisms of exchange of information and other forms of cooperation between the member states to better prevent tax fraud and tax evasion. in particular, the directive proposes to withdraw bank secrecy in the relations between member states for administrative cooperation purposes. i warmly welcome the constructive attitude and support for this proposal shown in the report by mrs alvarez. i am aware that the most controversial point of the discussion in the committees has been the amendments on automatic exchange of information and aimed at rendering the use of automatic exchange optional only, based on a decision to be taken by the member states. let me recall that the objective of this proposal is to enhance within the eu all types of exchange of information and other forms of administrative cooperation and specifically automatic exchange, which is a major pillar for preventing tax fraud and tax evasion. promoting the exchange of information on request, as an oecd standard, is certainly an acceptable approach with third countries but, in a fully integrated internal market as the eu single market is, member states must be more ambitious and go further. they must be able to use the best instruments at their disposal to achieve their political objectives of fighting tax fraud and evasion. i notice that the draft report on good tax governance highlights the necessity to develop the automatic exchange of information as a general rule, as a means of putting an end to the use of artificial legal persons to avoid taxation. i also notice that the report welcomes this proposal for a new directive for administrative cooperation as it also extends its scope to cover taxes of any kind and it abolishes bank secrecy. i therefore call you not to vote in favour of the new amendment tabled by the ppe group to erase any reference to automatic exchange of information in the report. concerning the amendments aimed at providing for more defined rules on the protection of private data, i would like to underline that in any case, member states are compelled to respect the existing community legislation on this subject and that therefore, these rules will have to be respected without any further amendment of the present draft directive. however, for the sake of clarity, i could envisage a general recital referring to the existing community rules. as regards the amendments on the evaluation system and requirements, i believe that the rules foreseen in the proposal and reinforced in the presidency compromise text should provide for an adequate framework, reflecting the spirit of the proposed amendments. the commission can accept in principle certain amendments, such as those introducing the possibility of the commission to adopting delegated acts in respect of technical improvements to the categories of income and capital that are subject to the automatic exchange of information, while the categories concerned should be defined in the directive itself and not through comitology. this is also in line with the orientation of the ongoing council discussions. the commission can also accept in principle the amendments on bank secrecy, which would not distinguish between taxpayers based on their tax residency. furthermore, the commission also accepts in principle the amendments on the presence and participation of officers in administrative inquiries. the commission will defend the spirit of these amendments in the council deliberations, without formally amending its proposal, as these provisions seem to be already reflected in the compromise text. let me now turn to the commission’s proposal on mutual assistance for the recovery of taxes. national provisions on tax recovery are limited in scope to national territories, and fraudsters have taken advantage of this to organise insolvencies in member states where they have debts. member states therefore increasingly request the assistance of other member states to recover taxes, but existing provisions have only allowed 5% of debts to be recovered. the commission’s proposal is intended to provide for an improved assistance system, with rules that are easier to apply and provide for more flexible conditions for requesting assistance. as you know, ecofin reached an agreement on 19 january 2010 on a general approach to the draft directive. i very much welcome the supporting attitude to this proposal shown in the report by mr stolojan. the commission can accept, in principle, the amendment to make the exercise of inspection powers in the requested member state by officials of the applicant member state subject to an agreement between the member states concerned. this is also reflected in the council compromise text. however, the commission cannot accept other amendments, such as introducing systematic and automatic exchange of information in the area of recovery, because it could lead to a disproportionate administrative burden, as it would also cover unproblematic recovery situations. nevertheless, the commission, in cooperation with the member states, will examine the possibilities how to further improve tax recovery assistance and address the eventual problems. let me finally conclude with a few words on the commission’s proposal for an optional and temporary application of the reverse charge. in responding quickly to new and worrying fraud patterns reported by several member states, the objective of this proposal is to give interested member states the possibility, under an optional and temporary scheme, to apply the so-called reverse charge mechanism under which it is the client who has to account for the vat to a limited number of highly fraud-sensitive sectors. under the proposed directive, member states would be able to choose a maximum of two categories of particularly fraud-sensitive goods such as mobile phones and one category of services such as greenhouse gas emission allowances, on which major fraud circuits have been detected over the last summer out of a list of five categories. they would need to assess the effectiveness of this measure, as well as its impact on a possible shift of fraud to other member states, to other types of supplies and other fraud patterns. i was pleased that the council took up this proposal so quickly and reached agreement on it at the ecofin of 2 december. of course, it is regrettable that an agreement could only be reached on one part of the proposal – on greenhouse gas emission allowances – but i am fully aware of the fact that this part was the one where the most urgent reaction was needed. the commission will continue to contribute to the council negotiations on the remaining parts of the proposal as constructively as possible. finally, i would like to thank the european parliament once again for its speedy reaction as well as for its clear support. even though the commission is not in the position now to formally accept all the proposed amendments, they will provide us with a useful input into the forthcoming council debates. what is at stake is indeed our capacity to react quickly to a massive fraud mechanism, but also the credibility of the eu emission-trading system.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, chance often does the right thing. at a time when we are debating the protection of the private and individual sphere, when these debates are being prolonged, the members of this house have a good opportunity to affirm strong principles. whether it is the introduction of body scanners at airports or the swift agreement with the united states, the staunch defenders of individual freedoms will not hesitate to make their voices heard this week, even if it creates many diplomatic tensions. i regret, however, that their fight for civil liberties is variable and inconsistent. when it comes to protecting banking and financial data, good suddenly becomes evil. what in other areas deserves protection is being flouted in the name of a new imperative: the generally obligatory colonoscopy in tax matters. the automatic all-round exchange, which is the basis of the alvarez and domenici reports, is the scanner that strips under all circumstances, it is the swift agreement without return and on a very large scale. but this parliament is not far from a contradiction. it can support the automatic exchange of all imaginable data between tax administrations in europe and, at the same time, reject the swift agreement with the united states, in the name of individual freedoms. is this incongruity, this inconsistency, understandable, or even justifiable in the name of efficiency? no, i'm not going. the golden rule, your golden rule, that the automatic exchange of all tax, banking and financial data of all non-residents will inevitably lead to an unmanageable data flow. the precedent of taxing savings should, however, be a warning to you. well, no, you won't. again, you have to continue to go the wrong way by advocating a system that is not working. there is no deaf man worse than he who does not want to hear. to those of my friends who seem to be concerned about the bureaucratic overreach that could be involved in implementing this scaffolding, i would say that the only solution is to oppose it rather than introduce it and then be surprised by its disastrous consequences. let me say a final word, mr president, to commissioner kovács, who is fighting his last battle tonight. i wish him a happy retirement. my dear commissioner, you may have been wrong about many things in your career, but as a good soul, i don't blame you too much. have a good retirement, mr. commissioner. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, unfortunately my colleague has not understood anything, but as i have no time to speak, i will explain in private. i hope he understands before the vote.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the present commission welcomes the report and the motion for a resolution on equality between women and men in the european union 2009. i thank the rapporteur, mr tarabella, for the support expressed by parliament for the approach and actions taken by the european commission to promote equality between women and men. gender equality is a fundamental value of the european union and a necessary condition for achieving the union's objectives of growth, employment and social cohesion. on this basis, the european union has built a genuine policy for equality between women and men. while there has been undoubted progress in this area, significant challenges remain. the commission shares the rapporteur's view that it is essential to continue our efforts. during my mandate, gender equality and women's rights have been at the heart of my concerns. over the past five years, the commission's commitment to gender equality has been concretised by the roadmap for equality between women and men. in implementing this roadmap, the commission has taken several major initiatives. i will give three examples. the commission has proposed concrete actions to combat the gender pay gap. this difference of 17% is simply unacceptable. in 2010, the commission will report on the analysis of the effectiveness of european legislation and present action to tackle the pay gap. the commission takes note of the interesting ideas contained in the european parliament's resolution. i would also remind you that the commission launched an awareness-raising campaign in march 2009 to mobilise all stakeholders to fight the pay gap. the campaign was a success and will be continued in 2010. during my term of office, i have also worked to promote a better representation of women in economic and political life. in this context, i set up a european network for women in decision-making in june 2008. some progress has been made. the current european parliament, for example, has the highest percentage of women: 35%. however, significant efforts remain to be made, particularly at national level, where women represent on average only 24% of national parliamentarians, and in business, where women represent less than 11% of board members of large publicly traded companies. the third major initiative is the establishment of the european institute for gender equality. i am pleased to say today that, despite a slower start than expected, the institute has started its activities in brussels and is already established in vilnius. the current crisis has serious repercussions on the labour market, jeopardising recent progress in women's employment, given that women are at higher risk of not being able to return to work and are initially more disadvantaged. ladies and gentlemen, during my mandate i have been committed to improving the balance between family and professional life. i agree with the european parliament, which stresses the importance of allowing fathers to play a greater role in family life. that is why i have asked my services to launch a study on the costs and benefits of a possible initiative by the commission in this area. the european parliament's report also rightly stresses the importance of eliminating violence against women. the commission will work in this direction with great effort and determination. i would not like to end this speech without emphasizing the very good cooperation between parliament and the commission, which has been a key factor in advancing equality between men and women. equality between men and women is not just an end in itself. it is a condition for achieving the european union's objectives of growth, employment and social cohesion. i thank you for your cooperation and attention.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, the committee on women's rights voted this report by a very small majority of three votes, with 6 of its 33 members absent. i don't think we can speak of a comfortable majority. it is clear that we share all the concerns about the discrimination which persists in the area of equality between women and men, despite very good european legislation on the subject since 1975. why is it that discrimination is so hard on them? either because these guidelines are not properly applied or because people who are discriminated against for any reason do not assert their rights in court. instead of constantly asking for new directives, with the risk of dilution that they entail, let us ensure that the existing legal arsenal is fully applied by governments, by the social partners and in the everyday world of work. this report echoes all the complaints, all the generalizations without nuance about poor, beaten, raped women... some statements therefore need to be relativised by amendments. what is more serious for me is that by glorifying the social or solidarity economy, it is intended to make it appear that placing women in it would be a successful example of female employability, that they would improve their social status and develop their financial independence. the opposite is true. they would sink into widespread poverty, lose all incentive and motivation to access remuneration based on merit and be dragged into irresponsibility. moreover, the proposals to create a european charter of women's rights, thus new protection in relation to the human rights they fortunately enjoy, and a new bureaucracy in the form of a european observatory on gender violence, when we have enough administrations to do this work, are either counterproductive or incompatible with the principle of gender equality, which is finally enshrined in the treaty. if ridicule killed, some members of the women's rights committee would no longer exist. finally, i regret the insistence of some members to advocate, in this report too, for abortion as a means of comfort at every opportunity, good or bad, on the pretext that, in order to ensure sexual and reproductive health, it is necessary to advocate easy and free access to abortion. no, i'm not going. the priority must be to promote better information for young girls, especially on contraception. it exists today to prevent pregnancies at a very early age. it didn't exist when i was young. we have therefore proposed separate votes to avoid voting against mr tarabella's report, which has not been defeated but has again been the victim of the extremism of some of his colleagues.
in writing. i abstained on the framework agreement between the european parliament and the commission. parliament, as a co-legislator, should refrain from trying to grab ever more powers at the expense of the commission. the whole treaty, but nothing but the treaty. parliament thus infringes the commission's right of initiative. president buzek said: 'we have just taken a further step towards the right of initiative of parliamentarians'. on the day that there are mps' legislative proposals, each lobby will find a mp to serve particular interests. i want to maintain the tried and tested community method, with the commission as the guardian and judge of the common european interests, from which the monopoly of legislative initiative derives. it is not by increasing the number of meetings between the commission and parliament's bodies that we will achieve a more effective european policy.
in writing. i voted 'yes' to the new commission known as 'barroso ii'. since the european elections in june 2009, the european union has been in a political vacuum, which was aggravated by the delayed entry into force of the lisbon treaty. it is therefore urgent that the new commission, the only european institution with the power of initiative, should take action. with the exception of ms jeleva, who had to withdraw her candidacy, all 26 commissioners-designate were individually endorsed by meps. it would have been illogical to refuse the collective. the vote by the commission was therefore nothing more than a formality, an 'administrative yes'. by voting 'yes' to the barroso ii commission, i do not mean giving blind political support to it. i will judge the commission on its political initiatives.
madam president, with this regular attack by a few international banks against the euro, the world is once again confronted with the stupidity and greed of the markets. it is true that the anglo-saxons have never been in favour of the euro. it has nevertheless become the world's safest currency. in fact, the dollar and the euro form a duopoly. a duopoly will always remain unstable. there will always be movements between the two currencies. but if the markets were any smart, they would note that the deficits of the euro area as a whole are far lower than those of the united states or japan. while it is true that the new greek government has inherited an unenviable fiscal situation, it is obvious that even an utterly impossible greek bankruptcy would not cause the eurozone to break up. the us government has just proposed a budget with a deficit of $1.6 trillion. to fill this deficit, washington must borrow more than $5 billion every day. the additional debt of greece each year is equivalent to less than one week of additional debt of the americans. who is endangering the world's financial stability? greece or the united states? in the face of the stupidity of speculators, europe must impose more transparency and more effective regulation on the decidedly overly greedy markets, madam president.
madam president, the following is necessary: economic and monetary union is monetary, but hardly economic. europe's monetary concerns are in conflict with the economic and budgetary sovereignty of the states. speculative attacks on the euro could now have disastrous consequences. greece, portugal, ireland and spain are the main countries concerned. behind them, however, is the whole euro area at risk. to avoid the worst, it is urgent to achieve a common governance of economic and budgetary policies in europe. that is what economic union is all about. only then can we, together, have a realistic chance of consolidating public finances in the euro area and beyond. with the current instruments, and by maintaining the budgetary sovereignty of the states, i fear that this consolidation will be illusory, with all the consequences that this will entail.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, it is a pity that an excited majority of the committee on women's rights is trying to overload our position on the commission's annual report on equality between men and women in the european union with considerations and demands that are counterproductive for women, and that are harmful to their employability. while some considerations may be well-intentioned, it is important to remember that too much protection is a dead end. but the stumbling block for my group was again the demand for a free, convenient abortion, built up as an easy method of birth control. our group is not opposed to the view that women should have control over their sexual and reproductive rights. we also believe that better information is needed, especially for young girls, on sexual and reproductive health. but to claim, in the same sentence, "easy access to contraception and free abortion" proves that the authors of this text do not make the necessary distinction and put them on an equal footing in terms of birth control. we do not agree with that. in addition, legislation on legal abortion is, under the principle of subsidiarity, the responsibility of the member states. it is therefore not for us, the european union, to interfere. we have made a great deal of effort to reach a consensus with the author of the report, mr tarabella, in the interests of combating all the discrimination which still needs to be abolished. i regret that a majority of the committee on women's rights - and also unfortunately of this parliament - has sought political and ideological quarrels rather than focusing on what should be the main objective of our action: working for equal treatment and equal opportunities for men and women, and i regret that for these reasons my group was unable to vote for the report.
in writing. i voted strongly against the alvarez report on administrative cooperation in tax matters, regretting that the fight for civil liberties which parliament wants to spearhead is variable and inconsistent. whether it's the introduction of body scanners or the swift agreement with the us, the fiercest defenders of individual freedoms are making their voices heard, even if it means creating diplomatic tensions. but when it comes to protecting bank data, good suddenly becomes evil. the automatic exchange all round, which is the basis of the alvarez and domenici reports, is the scanner that strips under all circumstances, it is the swift agreement on an even larger scale. this inconsistency cannot be justified even in the name of efficiency. the automatic exchange of all data on all non-residents in europe will lead to an unmanageable data flow. the precedent of taxing savings should be a warning to us. and to those of my friends who are concerned about the bureaucratic overreach that could be involved in implementing this scaffolding, i say that the only solution is to oppose the principle, rather than then be surprised by its disastrous consequences.
in writing. i voted against the resolution because it contains too many wishes. we saw in copenhagen how the rest of the world sees the eu's 'leadership' on climate change. the so-called copenhagen agreement was negotiated by obama with china, india, brazil, south africa and a few others, without barroso, sarkozy and others even being invited. instead of imposing new burdens on our economies and our citizens, let us invest in the technologies of the future. last year, china became the world's largest exporter of wind turbine equipment and photovoltaic cells. europe must engage in this technological battle instead of inflicting a kind of collective punishment on itself, which does not impress anyone outside europe and will find no parallels.
in writing. i am in favour of international cooperation on tax evasion, but i doubt that administrative cooperation leading to an automatic exchange of all data on the assets of european citizens is the best way to achieve tax fairness. a withholding tax on all financial transactions would be a much more effective way. this restraint at the source should be liberating. she could be a community resource. the so-called 'good governance' advocated by the european parliament exposes the entire private sphere of citizens. it dismantles the protection of individual data which, paradoxically, the european parliament wants to protect in the swift file. for these reasons i did not vote in favour of these reports.
mr president, one of the ways of preventing terrorism is through intelligence. we still need the information to circulate. is that true today? nothing is less certain. does the us intelligence keep its european counterparts informed? in any case, as far as the suspected terrorist arrested on the amsterdam-detroit flight is concerned, there is still room for doubt. beyond this incident, the question arises whether, in general, the system of data exchange in the fight against terrorism respects the principle of reciprocity. parliamentary control is urgently needed. there is no need to demand that our parliament endorse the transfer of more and more personal data of our citizens if, on the other hand, the us authorities are depriving our services of essential data in the fight against terrorism. this implies the creation of a parliamentary committee of inquiry within the european parliament.
in writing. i voted against the so-called swift agreement between the eu and the united states of america on the transfer of financial data for the purpose of combating terrorism. the swift agreement, in its current form, is far from striking the right balance between the need to combat international terrorism and the protection of fundamental rights. it is unacceptable that millions of unfiltered personal data of innocent people are being sent to the us authorities. it is not acceptable that this data can be stored for up to 90 years under american law and in contravention of community law. the swift agreement must also be subject to adequate protection of personal data and privacy, which i have already supported in two votes on reports on the exchange of information in the tax field.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too would like to offer my condolences to the families. but it will be of little comfort to those affected - the bereaved families and the seriously injured - if we repeat here that rail is still one of the safest modes of transport and that the number of accidents is very low compared to road transport. of course, the question of circumstances arises. how did this disaster come about? but as i have said, this is a question for the technical experts and later for the courts. the question for us is: what has gone wrong in the process of creating a common european railway market so far? and secondly, how can we prevent further accidents with all the resources at our disposal? because every accident is one too many. as a railway worker, i have seen this development firsthand and i would like to point out some of the problems which affect safety. instead of introducing competition for railway undertakings at the beginning of the 1990s, technical harmonization should have been introduced in advance. all these problems, as commissioner kallas has pointed out, should have been solved in the 1990s and the market should have been opened up to competition only on the basis of technical harmonization. the fragmentation of enterprises has led to many players being involved in the railway system - a system that only works properly when it is operated as a single system. i therefore believe that the member states, the railway companies, the infrastructure managers and the commission, which has adopted directives and regulations without any evaluation in the meantime, bear a shared responsibility for the recent accidents. this evaluation has only recently been carried out. the railway companies made the mistake of choosing the wrong strategy and waiting too long for a european system. they have been constantly trying to reduce costs, they have not hired enough qualified staff, as i have just indicated, but they have also invested too little. i would like to emphasize three points: the funds must be increased urgently to carry forward the planned modernisations. (the president cut the speaker off)
member of the commission. − madam president, first to the two gentlemen who raised the question of the ipcc. first, i am not here to represent the ipcc. i am sure they are perfectly capable of talking on their own. when i hear this ‘is it not time to pause?’, i must just say that the international climate negotiations in many ways have been put on hold for quite a long time. we still need, i believe, substantial progress there. i simply do not understand why, because of a few leaked things, one wants to aim the scepticism at a whole project. that is not my approach. i am the politician. i cannot judge the work of the scientists but i can use my common sense and i can read their main conclusions and see what the facts on the table are like. then i can myself weigh up whether i want to run the risk of doing nothing, with the very big implications that might have – or, instead, will i try to respond to the challenge? what i simply fail to understand is that those who are sceptical of this climate issue cannot see that it will always be good for a planet whose population is approaching nine billion people, or even more by the middle of this century, to become much more energy efficient and much more resource efficient. so that is where we should have common ground when it comes to the tools because that will anyhow benefit our environment, benefit our citizens and benefit our economies. it will also benefit business to become very energy efficient, in a future where energy is becoming still more expensive. that will pay off on the bottom line, in a world where there will be a struggle over resources. so i simply do not understand why we cannot take on the same kind of agenda from that angle. to mr florenz, what do we do with the instruments on the ets? well, as mentioned, there will be an analysis of the carbon leakage coming out before summer and, when it comes to the benchmark, we will continue the work with the benchmark. there are still many things to be worked on with the ets. i also think that we should still work with those other parties around the world who are planning to get some kind of trading schemes. i still think that that will be the most efficient way of trying to regulate this, but then, of course, it is very important that we have our own systems up and running, working as efficiently and as business-friendly as possible, so that they can see that it actually works and that in the end it also benefits their possibility of providing innovation.
madam president, first i think we are also very much looking forward to this impact assessment. we are really more or less sure that 30% will be good for the european economy and also in the race for green technologies. i have two questions, commissioner; one is on the quick-start money. how will you link with mr piebalgs to make really sure that this money goes to efficiency, to renewables and, in a decentralised way, to decentralised energy production combining this also with energy poverty? the second question is, how do you bring the large european cities and progressive regions into the game, internationally as well? i was really disappointed that, in the last week’s eu 2020 paper, cities and regions basically do not exist. how can we even dare to think that we will move europe forward while ignoring citizens’ regions in europe and the impact they could have internationally?
the commission has already done so. i welcome the review of the implementation of the first railway package and the planned recasting. i believe that this review was long overdue. i regret, however, that the commission does not receive any or only insufficient information from the member states. this makes an efficient and honest evaluation extremely difficult. but it is not just a matter of evaluating, but also of encouraging the member states to take the necessary steps. it is essential that safety is given priority in an evaluation. have lessons been learned from recent negative experiences and are they being taken into account? that's my question. the commission is being far too cautious on this issue in the face of the public, who are very concerned. the same applies to quality. i would ask the commission to consider how to establish general quality criteria. there is much talk of poor quality, but it cannot be measured reliably. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. despite cohesion fund co-financing, investment in road is still significantly higher than in rail in most countries. i would like to mention the keyword ertms here. this system must be introduced not only for the network but also for the fleet, to achieve greater safety on the road. i warn against further steps towards the planned liberalization of national passenger transport. the initiatives already taken in this context have shown that many obstacles remain to be overcome and that the commission would do well to initially carry out complete technical harmonisation and to ensure full implementation of the directives adopted.
in writing. - i voted against the lehne report today because i believe that the reduction of administrative burdens for smes must be achieved in the context of a uniform and comprehensive approach for the whole of the european union. if the proposal is implemented, more than 70% - in luxembourg, more than 90% - of european companies will be exempted from the requirement to draw up standardised annual accounts. the result is that the responsible management of the companies concerned loses an important instrument for decision-making. if member states do not implement the possibility of exemption for micro-enterprises in a uniform manner - which is highly likely - this will lead to a fragmentation of the common market. so this measure is inappropriate. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the only sensible solution is to introduce a common simplification of the rules for all micro-enterprises in europe.
in writing. this is yet another look back at the mistakes made by each of the parties involved in the conflict. if the same causes produce the same effects, it is reasonable to ask what causes, since the effects are always disastrous. the same causes are the firing of rockets at israeli cities. the same causes, the disproportionate response of the state of israel. the same causes are the appalling conditions in which the people of gaza live. the same causes are also the exploitation of their misery by the most radical factions. what if we started by supporting only those forces on both sides that have really made the choice of peace? these forces exist on both sides and are all too often accused of betraying their own people when they dream of a logic that can transcend divisions in a region that has long been the scene of one of the most dangerous conflicts on the planet.
in writing. subject to the following remarks, i voted in favour of the danjean report. 1) the report calls for the weu assembly to be abolished. the report also makes no mention of the work done by the commission in the service of european integration. it is a pity for the work of the foreign affairs committee of the european parliament, which is celebrating for days on end facts that are often less meritorious than the reflections that the paris assembly has developed so far. parliamentary control of european defence matters cannot fail to take due account of the contribution of national parliamentarians. the decision to make national troops and capabilities available to the eu for eu military operations will depend on them for a long time to come. the same applies to the financing of military operations, which are financed from national budgets. the concern to prevent any democratic deficit in european defence should guide us in the search for an institutional solution that is truly acceptable at parliamentary level.
in writing. the iranian problem is at the heart of the debate ahead of the conference for the review of the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons (npt). the european union has a duty to help the countries of the region to develop their nuclear weapons. if the republic of iran were to cease to comply with its commitments, we would have a double problem. in the short term, this would pose a threat to stability in a region where most actors are tempted by radical positions. in the medium and long term, iran's refusal to comply with the provisions of the npt would set a serious precedent in the context of regional and even global security. the agitation of the un security council members with veto rights plus germany clearly no longer seems sufficient to move the lines. a strong signal from the united states and russia that they are willing to unilaterally reduce their nuclear arsenals could help to make the medium-sized nuclear powers responsible for their own disarmament. and finally, a strong gesture by the big ones might perhaps convince the countries that are acquiring nuclear know-how to abandon their projects.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i think this set plan is basically an empty box because there is no money behind it. we really have to think about where the money could come from. what is worse is that the instruments the commission had – the ner300, the recovery plan and certain funds available today at the european investment bank – are more prioritised for those so-called low-carbon technologies that are the least efficient and present the highest risk. in 2008 and 2009, more than 70% of all investments on the market in europe were already in renewables: wind, solar, biomass. so how can it be that we are designing a set plan – and earmarking money at eu level – that basically gives a lower share to renewables than the market is already uptaking today, while diverting the money to carbon sequestration and to nuclear fusion, which is not addressed in this paper but which receives by far the largest share of eu money? our problem is that, because of certain lobbies, we do not have the courage to set the right priorities, and i think that even the iea, which is not a green grass-root organisation, is extremely clear about the priorities. fifty-five per cent of all co2 reductions will come from energy efficiency. why did we allocate zero euro to energy efficiency in the eu recovery package? thirty to thirty-five per cent of co2 greenhouse gas reductions will come from renewables, while at best only 10% will come from carbon sequestration and 10% from nuclear. that is according to the iea, not a green grass-root organisation. so, even in europe, in terms of how we allocate money we are behind what the iea is telling governments. the only way out is to set clear priorities. number one: energy efficiency; number two: renewables, because they reduce carbon without posing a risk; and then the other technologies.
i have to say, madam president, i will not address the question of ideology here, we can do that another time, but i think that the ideologues are more likely to be on the other side. the commission will have two concrete instruments at its disposal in the coming weeks: the first is that there's still money available in the risk-sharing finance facility. this money could now be used more heavily for renewable energy and energy efficiency. i am told that the commission's directorate-general for research is blocking the money, so it does not want to spend it on energy, but rather on ict and other areas. commissioner, can you tell me something about this? secondly, it seems that at least 15% of the money from the stimulus programme is still available, and we have insisted in parliament that this money must be spent on energy efficiency, in particular on smart cities. can you tell me anything else about that?
mr president, i would ask you to wait a few moments because many colleagues are still stuck in the elevators. someone had the extraordinary idea of doing a technical intervention on the elevators during the only week we are in strasbourg when we could do it for three weeks a month.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, progress in medicine has not yet won the battle against tuberculosis. so it is wrongly considered a disease of poor countries. this is an underestimation of the way in which it is progressing, particularly in central and eastern europe. in fact, no country is immune to this dreaded disease that has been around for thousands of years. moreover, the multi-resistant strains leave little hope of overcoming this scourge in the short term. the need to fight on several fronts through prevention, medical monitoring, research and the dissemination of preventive and hygienic measures calls for coordinated and determined action. in short, we must always be able to rely on the best possible strategies in this area. as regards the financing of the measures, a distinction must be made between two scenarios. firstly, in our countries, social security systems should, in principle, be able to provide adequate medical coverage. however, patients in developing countries continue to depend on the solidarity that has been exemplary since 2002 in the form of the global fund to fight aids, tuberculosis and malaria. if we want to achieve the goal of halving the impact of tuberculosis between 2000 and 2015, we will have to decide on one of the three scenarios put forward by the president of the global fund, mr michel kazatchkine. i would like to ask the commission which of the three scenarios it is basing its proposals on to our member states for the future financing of the fund for the fight against aids, tuberculosis and malaria.
mr president, 2009 was perhaps the most difficult year for the euro since its introduction, but also the most useful. without the euro, the european union would have been plunged into a war of competitive devaluations in the wake of the crisis. monetary instability could have undermined the union's political strength in 2009. the euro has saved us from the pain of constantly distorting exchange rates and monetary policies. but for how much longer? today we are calling for better governance of the european currency, more binding, more visible, more responsive. however, attempts to reappropriate the rules of the euro game at national level do nothing to help bring about genuine economic and monetary governance in europe. only solidarity can stop the speculative movements which are now affecting greece and which may at any time turn against other countries in the euro zone. solidarity rings true in the psychologically heated context of sovereign debt markets. the political upheavals of recent weeks have not only hurt greece. they have seriously damaged confidence in the euro. the failure to provide assistance to countries in distress undermines the monetary stability of the euro area as a whole. let us finally give the euro the instruments it needs. a coordinated european bond market is needed to avoid bottlenecks of too many sovereign debts coming to maturity in too many countries at the same time. the euro area needs external representation at all levels, in all forums, including the international financial institutions. and why should the president of the eurogroup not be part of the g20? let us also accept that the new members want to join the eurozone as soon as possible. they must be welcomed with enthusiasm and not with pettiness. to conceive of excluding eurozone members is to abandon the ambition of a strong europe in the world. the enlargement of the eurozone must go hand in hand with the creation of the instruments necessary for genuine economic union: coordination of budgetary policies, harmonization of economic and fiscal policies. the continued success of the euro is at that price.
mr president, an oral amendment has been tabled to your attention concerning paragraph 22. i would remind you that paragraph 22 deals with global governance and in particular with the composition of the g20, which is unusual in that it does not include any representatives of the least developed countries. the oral amendment seeks to fill this gap and the text i am proposing to the european parliament meets this requirement.
in writing. i have refused to give my consent to the appointment of mr vitor constancio as the next vice-president of the european central bank, knowing full well the facts. it is not his personality or his skills that are in question, which he also makes a certain talent. we'd like to believe that. only the thousands of portuguese ruined by his recklessness and carelessness are living proof of his disastrous record as head of portugal's central bank. three cases of this importance is a lot for one man. how can someone who has failed in his own country now claim to be in charge of oversight in europe? i said provocatively that it was a bit like giving sticks of dynamite to an arsonist. the echoes of these words in portugal are impressive. like me, the portuguese do not understand that someone who has failed like this is promoted to the next level. in general, i regret that the european parliament is not following the lead of the us senate in making appointments which are decisive for the future of the european union.
in writing. - although i think we should be careful in our own-initiative reports about what we ask the commission to do, i can agree with the report on quality policy for agricultural products. i particularly support the call for more effective controls and more coordination between the commission and the member states to ensure that imported foodstuffs comply with eu standards of quality and safety, environmental protection and social standards. in the case of fresh agricultural products or processed products containing only one ingredient, the country of origin should be indicated to enable the consumer to make informed purchases. i am relieved that my amendment, which is against the standardization of protected designations of origin and geographical indications, has also been adopted in the plenary. a mixing of these particulars would have made the existing designations superfluous and would have caused considerable damage to our producers with a protected designation of origin. the commission communication deliberately hid the issue of quantitative production control. i am convinced that we will continue to need production control instruments to guarantee producers stable prices and planning certainty so that they can meet the high demands of consumers and legislators. this is true not only in the milk sector but also in the wine sector in particular.
mr president, the precautionary principle has become an irresponsible principle. the precautionary principle has become an invitation to abandon all responsibility in the face of the slightest risk. no longer does anyone who claims to be responsible dare to take responsibility. a possible flu pandemic? and then, boom, billions of people are being asked to get vaccinated. a volcano that explodes? and hop, all european airspace is closed, even though experiment has proven that volcanic ash is really only dangerous for planes that have to go through a compact cloud. but, as a precautionary measure, our societies are suffering from the resignation of those in charge, the cowardice of experts and the impotence of politicians who have begun to talk about the need to reduce our over-reliance on air transport and to invest more in rail networks, possibly extending them to asia, the americas, africa, oceania and all the islands.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, in haiti, the approach of hurricane season makes it imperative to maintain the humanitarian phase and other emergency interventions are likely. to cope with the most urgent of situations, it is important to have adequate shelters in sufficient quantity and sufficiently strong. this measure is relevant because, on the one hand, the reconstruction of destroyed housing takes time and, on the other hand, the direct exposure of haiti to hurricanes raises fears of the worst, as recent experience has shown. to want to leave the humanitarian now would be simply irresponsible. postponing the rebuilding would be just as bad. in other words, we must do everything at once: humanitarian so that there are no more needless deaths, reconstruction so that we can return to a somewhat normal life as soon as possible, the revival of the economy, which is essential to generate resources in a sustainable way, the strengthening of haiti's budgetary capacity in the very short term and a resolute commitment to decentralization. the donor conference held at the united nations headquarters on 31 march was a success. what will be left of this conference when all is forgotten? apart from humanitarian interventions, the first thing to note is the need for a rapid economic recovery, which the imf's director-general is calling for, with the imf expecting an annual growth rate of 8% over the next five years. secondly, and in the same vein, the economic priority is to revive the agricultural sector. today, haiti needs 80% of its export earnings to finance its import of agricultural products. remember that haiti has had periods of self-sufficiency in food in the past. thirdly, haiti's development must be assessed on the basis of the criteria of relevance, effectiveness, efficiency and sustainability. fourthly, in order to ensure that development is sustainable, it is essential that haitians take ownership of development. fifthly, the earthquake in haiti proves once again - if need be - the importance of setting up without delay a system of rapid humanitarian aid aimed at pooling the material and human capacities of all the member states of the european union. what are we waiting for to put the proposals in michel barnier's report into practice? finally, the importance of the european contribution to the solution of the haitian problem will have been decisive. thank you to the high representative, thank you to commissioners piebalgs and georgieva and their directorates-general, who deserve our appreciation.
mr president, the dispute between parliament and the commission and the council over the proposed swift agreement can be beneficial, provided that the collection and transmission of data on banking transactions is used exclusively for the purpose of combating terrorism. it is commonplace to repeat this obvious fact, but experience shows that when it comes to the use of personal data, nothing is less secure. a suspected terrorist known to the us intelligence services is not necessarily known to their european counterparts, as the commission's reply to one of my questions shows. the appropriateness of the collection of personal data, of their being made available to the security control authorities, and also of the respect of the principle of reciprocity in the provision of information to the authorities will determine my attitude to any new agreement in this field. i therefore think it is appropriate to consider how best to ensure that the above conditions are met. it is up to parliament to make it one of its prerogatives.
in writing. my positive vote on the discharge for the 2008 financial year of the european parliament should not hide my scepticism, or even my opposition to certain statements contained in the resolution of mr staes' report. it is an inadequate statement to say that the costs of renovating the strasbourg headquarters following the disaster of august 2008 should not be borne by european taxpayers. the european parliament has a legal obligation to maintain the buildings of which it is the benevolent owner. in addition, appropriate legal proceedings were initiated to obtain reimbursement of costs incurred as a result of the accident. finally, i would like to see the situation of the meps' pension fund analysed with the necessary rigor and objectivity rather than being led by a certain demagogy.
mr president, commissioner, let us talk about the reality of car dealerships. the car dealerships in my country and elsewhere are concerned about the glaring disparity between their resources and those of the manufacturers. regulation no l400/2002 has reduced this disparity. without it, the automotive retail sector, already battered by the crisis, would face growing uncertainty about its investments and business orientations. the requirements of the manufacturers to dealers will become simply unbearable and unmanageable for many simple garage owners. in any case, commissioner, it is not competition that is at stake here. competition would be between car manufacturers and not between dealers or between dealers and manufacturers. it is not the local garage owner who can be a threat to free competition in europe. you talk about market dominance, potential dominance. let's talk about it! this dominance is not exercised over competing manufacturers. it is not exercised in relation to other producers. it is between the producer, the manufacturer and the car dealer, and this is a reality that is proven throughout the european union. the commission is giving a scientific speech to a huge number of children who want only one thing: a little freedom, a little security in the face of the car manufacturers, whose practices in relation to their dealerships are becoming, in some places, frankly revolting. it's david against goliath, except this time the commission seems to want to make sure that goliath is definitely winning. the rhetoric and reasoning behind the abolition of the exemption regulation is wrong. they're wrong, they're wrong for whom. the internal market, and especially the interests of consumers, are not served by reducing the margin of manoeuvre, legal certainty and willingness to invest of garages.
mr president, the european investment bank is both a bank and an institution. as a bank, it cannot forget that it is an institution, and as an institution, it cannot forget that it is a bank. it must therefore meet the requirements of the european union without neglecting its refinancing capacity. in this respect, we have no right to expose it to unnecessary risks, particularly in its interventions in developing countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this would protect us from the disaster that befell the world bank, which a few years ago had to cancel 50 billion in loans that would not have been repaid anyway. i believe that we can save ourselves such an adventure with the prudence which is required in the operations of the european investment bank, which i encourage to further develop its interventions in developing countries, because there is certainly still a margin to be used.
member of the commission. − mr president, we learnt with great sadness that former president umaru musa yar’adua died last night. he made a great contribution to the political and democratic life of nigeria and through his policies contributed to the stability in particular of the subregion of west africa. according to the constitution, acting president jonathan automatically becomes the substantive president. we understand that he will be sworn in shortly, possibly by tonight, by nigeria’s chief of justice. he in turn will be expected to swear in a vice-president from the north of the country, which opens new speculations on the political scene in nigeria. the european union has been a committed partner of nigeria and has continued to give strong and constructive support during the recent difficult months of political uncertainty. the violent conflicts in jos and surrounding villages in january and march this year, during which hundreds of citizens are reported to have been massacred or seriously injured, have been particularly devastating. thousands have been left homeless and are currently in camps. i fully share the concerns expressed by honourable members on the mass atrocities in jos and i would like to assure you that they triggered a resolute eu response. as soon as news emerged about the events in january and march, the commission was in contact with the international red cross in nigeria and other local agencies, which confirmed that the humanitarian needs of most victims were being met and that hospitals were able to cope with the inflow of causalities. the eu was amongst the first of nigeria’s international partners to make public its views on the violence. in january, high representative/vice-president catherine ashton issued a joint statement with hillary clinton, david miliband and bernard kouchner expressing deep regret at the violence and tragic loss of lives. all parties were urged to exercise restraint and seek peaceful means to resolve differences, and called on the federal government to bring the perpetrators of violence to justice. the eu issued further declarations on nigeria in february and march; they conducted a diplomatic démarche with the nigerian ministry of foreign affairs in order to convey condemnation of the most recent outbreaks of violence. the eu requested that the federal government of nigeria conduct a full investigation of the causes of the most recent violence and bring the perpetrators of violence to justice. in the last 10 years violent conflicts have caused the death of over 14 000 people in nigeria and left over three million internally displaced people. it is not possible to put muslim or christian communities in the role of either aggressor or victim, since historically they have, unfortunately, been both. it is apparent, however, that the conflict always involves extremely poor people. conflicts presented as religiously motivated are often triggered by other causes, including conflicts between traditional rulers, land and resource struggles among communities, political in-fighting, and tensions between state and federal authorities. religious differences often fuel and amplify existing differences, leading to larger clashes. measures being undertaken by the eu in nigeria combine diplomacy with longer-term development cooperation. under the edf we support development cooperation in nigeria. the two most important sectors are peace and security, and governance and human rights. we also actively promote peace and security through regular political dialogue with nigeria under the cotonou agreement and we engage in regular dialogue with nigeria on human rights and democratic principles including ethnic, religious and racial discrimination. finally, i believe it is essential that we remain attentive to the issue of recurring intercommunal violence in nigeria. i propose that it should be addressed as a priority for dialogue in the next eu-nigeria ministerial meeting in the autumn of this year.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, we have just learned of the disappearance of umaru yar'adua. i too would like to express our condolences on behalf of my group on the untimely death of the president of nigeria. this disappearance comes at a time when the rift between muslims and christians is taking a particularly harsh turn. the 200 christians killed in the area of jos are the cause of this resolution. we could go on and on about this barbarity, but we must remember that, once again, it is, of course, a religious division. it could also be said, for the umpteenth time, that poverty does not solve anything. that one reason is that political authorities have failed to eliminate corruption. we could also mention, for the umpteenth time, the disputes over the few natural resources, including fertile land, in this region, as well as climate change, which also further amplifies the factors i have just mentioned. what can the european union do in such circumstances? of course, it can invoke article 8 of the cotonou agreement to strengthen the dialogue with the political authorities of that country. we're going to do it. we can also condemn atrocities. we shall do so in this resolution. it is, of course, regrettable that this rich country - the largest oil exporter on the african continent - is unable to invest its wealth in the fight against poverty. in fact, we can do anything, condemn, re-condemn and re-condemn all of this. i believe there is a glimmer of hope and it is nigeria itself that must be at the forefront of a movement to turn this country around. the one who is already acting as interim president, goodluck jonathan, has all the qualities needed to fight courageously against the evils i have just mentioned. it's up to the country itself to get back on its feet and i think there are very few people with that temperament. we must wish for courage, lucidity and also support the extraordinary personality of the interim president of this country.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when circumstances require exceptional responsiveness on the part of politicians, the case i am about to discuss shows that perseverance is also a virtue. since the early 1980s i have been calling for a reform of the 1986 directive because it has not achieved its main objective, which is to improve the social security and maternity protection status of the assistant spouse in family businesses. in adopting my report in 1997, parliament had already asked for an amendment to this directive, which was worded too timidly, whereas the council of ministers had not even followed the more ambitious proposal of the european commission in 1984. despite repeated reminders, the commission was not convinced until october 2008, when it finally proposed that the decaffeinated directive of 1986 be repealed and replaced by a text with a more solid legal basis. parliament adopted its amendments at first reading on 4 may 2009. in order to improve the commission's proposal, we considered that compulsory affiliation of spouses and recognised partners to the selfemployed person's social security system would be necessary to create, among other things, a spouse's own right to an old-age pension. if the affiliation is voluntary, too many spouses tend to give up their rights and find themselves, for example after divorce, without social protection, even though they have worked for decades in the family business and contributed to its prosperity. unfortunately, this principle of compulsory membership did not find a majority in the council of ministers. it took nine months for the child to be born from his common position. the spanish presidency has finally been able to deliver us with exceptional skill and perseverance. i would like to thank her and mrs. reding's office; i've been negotiating with them since january. thanks to their understanding and diligence, we have been able to reach an agreement with the council which will allow the new directive to enter into force after our vote tomorrow. of course, we had to add water to our wine, but we are satisfied that we have served the interests of the selfemployed well, who, with 16% of the working population, of whom one third are women, represent a considerable force in europe. their spouses, the vast majority of whom are women, who are actually involved in the activities of the family enterprise, whether agricultural, craft, commercial or self-employed, are still too often in some member states invisible workers who, if they were employed, would increase the activity rate and would also make it possible to achieve the objectives of strategy 2020 faster. i have already mentioned the long and difficult delivery of this directive, and i must mention the progress made in the protection of the motherhood of selfemployed women and the spouses of selfemployed women. the new directive provides for benefits for 14 weeks at their request. the germans say that politics is the art of the possible. i know that there are colleagues in this parliament - fortunately there are few of them - who think that the selfemployed and their spouses should be able to organise their own social security. i know the song well because i heard it twenty or thirty years ago in my country, when the compulsory membership of farmers' spouses in the agricultural pension fund was imposed. today, these people are happy. i would also like to stress that the progress i have described respects the principle of subsidiarity because it leaves the member states the choice of organising the social protection of spouses in accordance with their national law and implementing it on a compulsory or voluntary basis. you see, madam president, i do not have time to explain to you here all the things i still like about the directive, but you see that we are still able to draw up european directives which serve the interests of citizens, in the social field, and which even reduce distortions of competition in the single market. i thank all those who have contributed, including my colleagues on the committee on women's rights. (applause) i would like to thank
member of the commission. − madam president, today we have made progress in the fight against poverty and for the promotion of female self-employment. this is not the end of the process, but it is a huge step forward. subject to the council’s endorsement, for the first time ever self-employed women will have the right to maternity leave. the member states will also have a clear obligation to grant social protection to assisting spouses, on request. i want to thank the committee on women’s rights and gender equality, and parliament as a whole, for all the work that has been done to achieve this success. lastly, i want to say a word on ms lulling, who for many years has fought personally for this issue. that fight has now been won, and i am deeply grateful for her commitment, which has led to this remarkable achievement.
the rapporteur. i would like to thank mr oettinger, who has represented his colleague, mrs reding, in his excellent english. i'm a college girl. i thank all the colleagues who have spoken because they follow the overwhelming majority of the committee on women's rights, which will allow this text to be adopted tomorrow. i would like to reassure mr romeva. this text is not perfect. it remains in accordance with our own wishes. we have not yet won the war, but we have won an important battle. it's a step in the right direction. i would also like to say to mr romeva and mrs figueiredo that they have no worries about maternity protection. the ce qu'ils veulent is provided for in recital 17a. i'm not sure i'm ready for the fair. there is only one amendment. if we voted for it, the directive could not be adopted under the spanish presidency and we would risk losing months, or even years, and that for nothing, because - i would like to reassure the authors - what they propose in their amendment is in other words in amendment no 4 adopted in first reading and reproduced entirely by the council. i therefore believe that these colleagues could, in good conscience, vote for the other amendments.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. many congratulations to mrs ţicău and to the entire team of shadow reporters! without a strong european parliament this directive would not have worked so well! i shall spend my two and a half minutes less on the directive than on the prospect of what more needs to be done to compensate for the weaknesses of the directive, with regard to the old building stock. what is closer to the crisis than making better use of europe's resources and increasing energy productivity? we need a european building initiative from the commission with four main points. firstly, to help national governments to implement the directive. the last directive was not properly implemented. mr oettinger, you have a whole officer in your directorate-general at the moment, and he is leaving in july. how will you also personally position yourself to ensure proper implementation? secondly, and you mentioned this, funding models. what can we do in the commission to make better use of the regional fund for buildings? perhaps you could give some details of the residual funds from the stimulus programme already mentioned. thirdly, we need to increase the productivity of construction workers, and that is why we need more training. better trained workers will increase productivity, but will also, of course, challenge the working and wage conditions that prevail in europe's construction industry today. the commission should therefore also take the initiative of establishing a european-level social dialogue between the construction industry and the trade unions. and fourthly, in the field of research and development, there is also an urgent need to focus more on buildings, on the construction of low-cost zero-energy or low-energy houses and, very, very importantly, on new forms of organisation of building renovation. the only way to build or renovate more economically is to improve the overall design of the renovation process. here too, we could really help national governments and the building industry through european research funds.
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur and thanking her for her thorough and helpful work. it was a pleasure working on this report with her. i believe that the result of this work is a balanced report with a focus on increasing legal certainty. the question now is not to propose more legislation at any cost but to make it more accessible and comprehensible. a particular point to be raised - mrs rühle has already done so - is that of service concessions. it is a sensitive point which has also given rise to some controversy within the commission. i would like to stress once again that, since we know that the commission intends to propose new legislation on this subject, it should do so taking into account the need to improve the functioning of the single market. nothing else can justify the fact that there are now major legislative initiatives in this area.
madam president, the long-awaited icc, which was designed to prosecute the perpetrators of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, is the beginning of a response to the victims who have too often, and unfortunately in vain, been calling for reparation and justice. before the court was set up, many people believed that it had a preventive role. in fact, would not an international order empowered to punish the perpetrators of such heinous crimes as those committed in bosnia, rwanda, cambodia and darfur, be such as to deter one or another dictator-executioner, knowing that once he has committed his crimes, he would no longer feel safe outside the borders of his own country, where he could act with impunity? i would like to ask the commission and the council whether, in their view, the objective of prevention has been achieved. could the commission tell me, for example, whether it considers that the arrest warrant issued by the international criminal court against president omar al-bashir is part of the solution or part of the problem? personally, i still believe that this is part of the solution. in any case, what lessons can be drawn from the court's short existence? the commission, and this is my last question, with this in mind, does it intend to propose amendments at the kampala conference which will be the occasion to discuss and, if necessary, adopt amendments to the text which constitutes the legal basis of the court?
madam president, i would like to agree with isabelle durant in some ways, who rightly said that social housing was not a commercial sector or a competitive sector like any other. i think we can agree on that, commissioner. state aid is being called into question here. i wonder how in a field such as social housing one could not be, a priori, in the field of state aid. this is state aid to social housing beneficiaries not so much to enterprises . in the end, aid is given because it is deemed necessary and it is not so much competition issues that are at stake. i note - and i can only speak on the basis of my national experience - that social housing is linked to so many different conditions that we must be glad, in the end, that the european commission, the european institutions, europe and brussels, as is always felt, are not competent to give us a precise definition of aid, to tell us which citizen can benefit from what aid and under what circumstances. i would stress that what is at stake here are the specific local conditions and the changing family situation of each individual. how could someone who had a family, but whose family status then changes, someone whose income, as lambert van nistelrooij said, varies over the course of a lifetime, one day be granted the right to social housing, according to a number of criteria, and then be withdrawn? i do not think that this is reasonable and i do not believe that in these circumstances the commission should again go beyond its role to propose and ultimately impose rules which would necessarily lack flexibility and probably also humanity.
madam president, madam commissioner, i agree with the honourable member who has said that there is still a lot to be done. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i believe that this text has the potential to lead to an ambitious european project. it is high time to act to increase the competitiveness of rail freight, in particular by promoting cooperation and coordination at all levels. i do not share the fears of some member states who see in this text a danger to the control of national operators over the railway network and fear disadvantages for passenger transport. i do not think that this regulation will have any negative impact on rail passenger transport. on the contrary, it will help to improve the quality of goods transport and to avoid any further transfer to the road.
the commission has already done so. the directive is an important step towards improving the health and safety of drivers in this sector, but also towards increasing road safety and ensuring fair competition. these are the commission's own words when it introduced the directive on 23 march 2005. in the meantime, the commission has made a turnaround and put forward a proposal to exclude the selfemployed. this is a precedent, and i cannot understand this policy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. the proposal is also not intended to help small and mediumsized enterprises. i think that this reversal is the failure to enforce european policy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented in a uniform manner, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take this opportunity to explain why he has not taken this step.
mr president, you may have followed the rules, but when i add 334 votes in favour, 168 abstentions and 287 votes in favour, i arrive at 789 members, which is more members than there are in the chamber. so there was a vote-filing, like the corsican elections. it's obviously a rigged election that needs to be repeated.
in writing. i voted in favour of the langen report on the derivatives market because, like the rapporteur, i believe that the sector should be regulated and that derivatives markets should be made more transparent. i particularly support the idea of a mandatory clearing platform for the conduct of derivatives transactions between market participants. by standardizing operations and ensuring the independence of clearing houses, very significant progress would be made. the regulation, which should be introduced fairly quickly through the joint efforts of the commission, the council and parliament, should not, however, lead to the complete closure of the derivatives markets, which play an important role in world finance. the rapporteur makes a distinction between derivative instruments which serve to hedge risks directly linked to the activities of firms and those which are used exclusively for speculative purposes. only the latter are likely to constitute a systemic risk which will need to be adequately managed in order to avoid a repetition of crises such as those we have experienced in the recent past.
in writing. there is a wide range of opinions on the inclusion of selfemployed drivers in the scope of the directive on road transport safety. everyone thinks they have good reasons for their position. i respect that. but there are already too few selfemployed people in our countries, and those who are still willing to take the risk of selfemployment should not be discouraged or discouraged. but that is what we would do if we in europe now wanted to start regulating the working hours of the selfemployed. the problem of the pseudo-selfemployed is not confined to the transport sector. this is a general problem of the labour market which must be treated as such, as our rapporteur has rightly pointed out. most of them make the argument of road safety. but the drivers' hours are strictly regulated. the speedometer doesn't know if you're a self-employed person or an employee. but it can also make no difference whether a selfemployed person who is tired from office work or a worker/driver who is tired for many other reasons is driving the car. the last thing we need in europe at the moment is a crushing bureaucracy for self-employed small businesses. that is why i agreed with our rapporteur.
in writing. i voted against the report on so-called consumer information on foodstuffs. "hell is paved with good intentions", said jean-paul sartre. the european union's good intentions in consumer information are indigestible, bureaucratic and amount to a patronage of consumers, who are forced by law to live healthily in order to die a healthy day. the commission is always talking about better legislation, cutting red tape for businesses and getting closer to the citizens. with legislation as heavy and as intricate as this proposal for a regulation, the consumer will be unserved.
in writing. as rapporteur for the opinion in the agri committee, i commend mrs sommer for her courage and good sense. i voted in favour of the proposals for the following reasons: non-prepacked foodstuffs should be exempted from mandatory nutrition labelling. alcoholic beverages are not included in this directive. synthetic cheeses must be clearly labelled. i congratulate the new wording on the labelling of honey origin, because at present large packers mention 'mixture of eu and non-eu origin honey' on their labels, even if this mixture contains only a small proportion of european honey and if the rest is so-called honey or flavoured syrup from china. i am firmly opposed to national labelling schemes which hamper the internal market. i am also concerned that these national systems will open a loophole and allow the so-called traffic lights to pass through the back door. additional voluntary information should be scientifically based in order not to mislead consumers. nutritional profiles are neither a scientifically defensible concept nor a means of information, because the thresholds proposed by the european commission and contested by the european food safety authority are unfounded and completely random. that would be consumer misinformation.
mr president, if we want to be heard outside the european union on the subject of respect for human rights, let us first try to be irreproachable at home. the european union has decided to accede to the european convention on human rights as a union. this highly symbolic gesture, i hope, reflects the desire of the twenty-seven to converge even more closely on the respect of the obligations of membership of the council of europe. in my view, this implies that the twenty-seven should each undertake to respect all the judgments of the strasbourg court of human rights. would you agree, madam high representative, to have all the member states of the european union commit themselves to respecting all the judgments of the court of human rights from now on and to refer them to our assembly? this would help to put an end to the curious behaviour of lecturing the rest of the world while ignoring our own responsibilities, the rest of the world being also the 20 countries outside the union ...
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the resolution calls on the commission to make greater use of the objective of a european railway regulatory framework, namely the creation of a free trans-frontier and pan-european railway market. i would point out at this point that the reason for the lack of transposition of the existing directive is not only the lack of will on the part of the member states but also legal uncertainties. for example, some countries have found national solutions in the infrastructure manager which do not stand in the way of opening up the market and should be taken into account. the practical realities on the ground, in particular the lack of technical harmonization between the member states, but also the different safety systems for trains, still make it difficult to operate cross-border without problems. the social aspect is one aspect which i think has been lacking in the evaluation and revision so far. the training and working conditions of railway workers, the rules on inspections, etc. must be taken into account. another serious obstacle is the bottlenecks in infrastructure, the so-called bottlenecks at the borders. there is still a lot of catching up to do to strengthen crossborder traffic in the long term. a concrete example of this is the line from germany to luxembourg. there has been discussion for years about expanding infrastructure, but this has still not come to fruition due to a lack of concrete political will and economic priorities on one side of the border. i would ask the commission to promote the other aspects, technical harmonization and infrastructure development, with the same intensity as it promotes competition.
mr president, i refer to rule 175 (2) of the rules of procedure to ask, on behalf of my group, that this report be referred back to committee. after carefully comparing the romeva report, which we have just voted on, with the figueiredo report, we have found that there are absolutely identical passages in the two reports, recitals, articles whose content is identical, even if it is not word for word the same. moreover, this report merely repeats, to a large extent, what was already contained in the tarabella report on equality between women and men, which we voted on here in february. i don't know who these writers are who are out of inspiration, who are responsible for these plagiarisms. but to avoid this parliament becoming a laughing stock, this report must be referred back to committee, especially since it has missed its point. (applause) i would like to thank mr president, i do not understand why the secretariat of the committee on women is not paying attention to this situation. this is not good legislative work. back to the factory! (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, i admit that i have difficulty in following my colleagues who like to show off their muscles and take advantage of our monopoly of legitimacy vis-à-vis the other institutions of the union. unfortunately, their posture is often ridiculous. but when the members of this house, through hard work and conviction, take a reasoned stand when we defend what looks like a general european interest against tense states, the situation changes completely. in this debate on european supervision, parliament has played that role. on the european committee on systemic risk, for which i am the fictitious rapporteur of my group, i have defended, like the rapporteur, mrs goulard, an ambitious line. i have advocated mechanisms which ensure a certain degree of efficiency and i have stressed the preeminence of the european central bank. why would you do that? because the european central bank is the only community institution in this whole thing, and because it has shown that it is serious. in the name of christian charity, i will not mention the names of all the institutions and all the great personalities who suddenly disappeared during the storm. we can be happy to have had at least one captain on board at the height of the crisis. i would therefore be reassured to see macro-prudential supervision backed up by a strong community institution tomorrow, whereas micro-prudential supervision will necessarily remain fragmented. in these troubled times, the european systemic risk board needs to get to work as quickly as possible. the future will show whether adjustments are necessary, but it is essential to start from a sound basis as systemic risks affect the entire european and global banking sector.
in writing. i voted against the regulation on novel foods because it is a conglomeration of all the fears and obsessions of some members of parliament about scientific progress. the desirability of "safe and wholesome food" is obvious. but that any new technology is automatically suspect, whether it be advances in biotechnology and food genetics, or the application of nanoscience, is simply ridiculous. the precautionary principle has become a principle of inaction. the rest of the world is making progress in all areas, europe is perfecting its food labelling bureaucratically.
in writing. i still believe that the accession of a country to the european union must be translated into genuine solidarity and not into a one-way solidarity of the european union towards the candidate country. however, membership must be an added value for all. my remarks are of a general nature. it is therefore not specifically aimed at iceland. i wanted to make this reflection rather in relation to the difficulties in which the european union is currently struggling. but some countries which are already members of the european union are behaving in a curious way, to say the least, by treating the european union as a kind of dumping ground for their problems without much concern for the common good. future accessions must prevent such difficulties if we are to consolidate what remains of cohesion and the capacity to continue the construction of europe.
mr president, i should first like to thank elmar brok and guy verhofstadt for having succeeded in asserting the european parliament's rights in foreign policy matters, with the political sense that is theirs. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the council and parliament. the retention of commissioners piebalgs, for cooperation, and georgieva, for humanitarian action, in their posts remains the essential condition for preserving the institutional coherence of the european union's policy in the areas in question. this does not mean that synergy effects should not be sought within the external action department. on the contrary, it is essential, just as it is becoming imperative to speak with one voice. what is important is that those who speak on behalf of the european union are not contradicted by the foreign ministers of the member states, who are not sure, at present, that they have all understood the message. but this requires a real foreign policy of the union and it is a major challenge. it starts with having an opinion on the big foreign policy issues, an opinion on security and not two, an opinion on turkey and not two. for every success you will achieve, madam high representative, you can be assured of the applause of this house.
but you need to calm down! as luxembourgers speak and write both french and german, i would like to draw your attention, before the vote on this very sensitive resolution, to the fact that there is a huge difference between the french and german text of paragraph 17. the german text states that the member states and the commission are invited to support measures for safe abortion. this part of the sentence does not appear in the french text, nor, as i have been told, in the english text. mr president, if you could make it clear that the french text is the authentic one, that would certainly make it easier for many of my colleagues to decide on the vote.
in writing. i voted for the report on the future of agricultural policy after 2013 because i believe that this excellent report clearly demonstrates that the european parliament, which has been given new powers since the treaty of lisbon came into force, is taking on its new responsibilities. parliament is in favour of maintaining a common agricultural policy worthy of the name, also after 2013, with a budget at least equal to the current budget, in order to ensure high quality production and security of supply in the 27 member states. i am glad that my amendments in this direction have found their way into this text. my call for the maintenance of certain market measures acting as a safety net for farmers and the prices of their products was also widely supported. we must be able to avoid crises of overproduction, among other things, in order to ensure agricultural activity in all european regions. specific tools for monitoring production potential which benefit certain sectors should also be maintained.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr langen has given me one minute, because he will not be present himself. i would like to begin by apologising to the rapporteur and to my colleagues for not having been present at the debate so far, but the bureau of parliament is sitting at the same time, as you know, and is discussing what to do with the unfinished proposal from the conference of presidents concerning the presence of members of parliament tomorrow during the state of the union address by commission president barroso. i hope we can get rid of this crude proposal. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the aim must of course be to ensure that the agricultural sector has a fairer share of the added value in this chain. unfortunately, this is not the case in some areas at present. i also agree with the list of serious causes of this situation, such as abuse of power, delays in payment, restricted market access and many others. if the diagnosis is correct, so must the treatment. unfortunately, we did not manage to remove all the inconsistencies in this respect from the bové report in the vote in the committee on agriculture and rural development. we are still living in the european union and not in a soviet union, and we do not want to create one in this respect. the soviet system was not able to feed the population properly, nor were there any self-employed farmers. i therefore reject all the recipes of mr bové which are incompatible with our imperfect but better system of the social market economy. we are thankful that in europe we do not have to deal with the spectre of an imperialist conspiracy. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i would have liked to hear mr van rompuy, president of the european council, in this debate. the state of the union should, in my view, also reflect the institutional reality of the union. since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, we have seen a sort of presidency, represented by the president of the european council, in several key areas of european policy. in the management of the euro crisis, the task force set up by the european council and chaired by mr van rompuy could, i think, have been the subject of a discussion on the state of the union. if there is no obligation for the president of the european council to appear before the european parliament, there is no reason why he should not do so. i would like to hear your views on this, mr president of the commission, and to know who might be inconvenienced by the presence of mr van rompuy.
in writing. - as i was not allowed to speak in the debate on the bové report and was unable to explain the reasons why i do not support it, i would like to make it clear once again that we are still living in the european union and not in a soviet union. i therefore reject all the josé bové recipes which are incompatible with our system of social market economy. i agree with the identification of the serious causes such as abuse of market power, delays in payment, limited market access and many others which underlie the dysfunction of the food supply chain. so we must act and we are prepared to do so. we must ensure that farmers have a fair income without demonizing manufacturing or global trade. these, unlike the national authorities, have to cope with the rules of the real economy. but if the aid which farmers are entitled to and which they are confident they will receive is paid more than 12 months late, this reprehensible practice has just as negative an impact on farmers' incomes as certain practices in manufacturing and commerce which need to be revised. i shall therefore not vote for the report unless the inconsistencies which are contrary to the system are eliminated.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, the largest lake in the world is currently in pakistan, in the words of the head of oxfam for that country. in fact, in view of the suffering and misery generated by floods of a rare magnitude, it seems to me appropriate to speak of an ocean of problems, sorrows, suffering and despair. we all have a responsibility. why would you do that? firstly, because the 20 million people directly affected by this disaster cannot cope with it alone. secondly, we have the responsibility of the european union, but also of the member states, which is the same thing. the time has come, with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, to put an end to this artificial distinction, which really no longer has any reason to exist. europe is of course taking its responsibilities and you are setting an example, commissioner. europe is doing this in an exemplary way. is it not the european union which, as a rule, is the main donor of humanitarian aid? others would be inspired to increase their contribution to help pakistan out of the misery that will result from the current floods. i am thinking in particular of the billionaire states and the oil powers in this part of the world. does this mean that we europeans are perfect? no, i'm not going. i think we could do even better without having to spend more. firstly, there is the barnier report, which aims at pooling the resources and tools that the 27 countries can use in the event of a disaster. what are we waiting for to finally implement the conclusions of this report? the second is the lack of visibility of the european union. it is not the most important aspect, but it must be addressed, not in a boastful or ostentatious way. what is important here is that the union does everything it can to do what it does best, namely to make a visible contribution to the world's leading humanitarian actor and to excel in what is clearly its true vocation, namely to become a true power for peace.
in writing. i voted for the compromise between parliament and the council on strengthening the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. the health requirements of human beings sometimes require the sacrifice of animals. the use of animals should be strictly controlled. but it is hypocritical to demand that animals be killed and their pain, suffering and anguish be limited as much as possible. they are human concepts transferred to animals, which are killed in their natural environment by other carnivores or killed in slaughterhouses for human food. the world is not angelic and death will always haunt us.
the commission has already done so. i would like to congratulate mr simpson on asking the right questions. the commission has not yet demonstrated that it meets the objectives of better supply and quality at low prices. traditional postal companies have also delivered good quality at good prices in the past. however, it must also be acknowledged that there has been a modernisation of the traditional postal providers, which have been able to increase their efficiency through large-scale restructuring. i think it is very important to take into account a number of points: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. this is only to be checked by collective agreements which are to be applied by all suppliers. this is the only way to prevent social dumping. the universal service has been mentioned many times before: the universal delivery of letters and parcels. i would also like to see a study of the universal service from the commission. in addition, each country must comply with the obligation to establish an independent regulatory authority. in addition to the licensing regulations, the company must monitor the working conditions of the staff and take account of customer complaints. to enable this, such an authority must be equipped with the necessary staff. as electronic mail, buying and selling via the internet become more and more widespread and banks, insurance companies and advertising companies all rely on postal infrastructures, they need to be strengthened in the short term. i expect the commission to carry out an impact assessment which also takes account of the social aspects. i also congratulate the commission on the creation of the user, trade union, client and operator dialogue group announced by mr barnier.
in writing. having voted in favour of the joint resolution, i would like to make the following comment. my support for this resolution is in no way to endorse certain excessive remarks made during the debate on tuesday afternoon. with all the sensitivity that the issue in question deserves, to try to compare the deportations of roma to the concentration and extermination camps of the second world war is to trivialize the holocaust. that's the surest way to stifle debate. but this is a matter of calm, balanced, responsible debate. this combination is either bad faith or immaturity. in any case, it does not serve the cause of the roma.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would like to congratulate mr vidal-quadras and all those who have negotiated this. i would also like to congratulate the spanish presidency, which has really helped us to make rapid progress. it is a good balance between the internal market and forward planning, between the regional level and europe. i am also glad that what we have been promoting above all, the backflows, is a prominent theme in the directive. i would like to make three points to look forward to: firstly, in terms of infrastructure, we consider that the north-south links in particular, i.e. poland, hungary and slovakia, are still viable. it is very important that we have more north-south connections. in the case of gas storage, we have to deal with the question raised by mr swoboda: if more gas is coming into the electricity market, which is likely, then we need fast storage. we need to test our infrastructure to see if the storage is slow or fast, because there are slow storage and fast storage, and we need to look more at these fast storage. secondly, what i think is totally lacking is a good data base to estimate what our future gas demands will be. what is the impact of the eu building directive? what is the impact if a country like germany says that by 2050, all our buildings, new and old, will be zero-energy buildings? and the primes model is not detailed enough and not independent enough because it's made by the same man who also makes the scenarios for eurelectric. this means that we need better data to avoid lost investments. thirdly, the heads of state will meet on 4 february. i think we need a paper from the commission on the reassessment of the world gas market before this important summit on 4 february. shell gas in the us has released more lng. and what does it mean when we have shell gas in europe? we need a paper from the commission that gives the heads of state an assessment of where the gas market is today. i think it is much more positive than it was perhaps two or three years ago.
madam president, china has become a country of more than a billion people, boosted by economic growth of between 8 and 15% year on year. its economic performance has earned it the title of the workshop of the world, while the united states has for several decades assumed the role of the consumer of last resort. china produces and sells, boosting american consumption by providing the united states with consumer credit alongside the products sold. china, which is thus encouraging american consumption more than its own, is thus faced with calls from the rest of the world. the strategic interdependence between the united states and china is such that any significant change in this curious partnership would not decisively affect only these two countries. as for eu-china relations, while they are essential, their convergence of interests in important areas is less evident. as long as china and the usa have an interest in seeing european exports limited by a very strong euro, we are in a weak position. the fact that china is a member of the un security council with veto power has also made it a key reference in international relations. this country, which this year became the second largest military power in the world, is a challenge to us in more than one way. stability now also passes through china. for all these reasons and for all these questions, i would also add that we urgently need a european strategy for external relations.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. - mr president, drugs are of course also a multi-billion dollar business and so this was a subject which was subject to a lot of lobbying pressure. the imco committee has had a great deal of success in keeping the internal market open. we have worked on all the aspects that my colleagues have explained about monitoring adverse reactions and, in the face of the pharmaceutical lobby, we have above all ensured that there is no weakening of controls when the product is placed on the market and that the information to the patient is guaranteed. indeed, one of the ideas that was circulating was to make prospectuses, in fact to summarize, which would have been very bad. i regret that an idea i had put forward in my report was not accepted, namely that the therapeutic value of new medicines should also be tested. we're now facing a strategy of the major companies that, every time a patent expires, they change a few molecules, they do a big marketing campaign. today, there's more money being spent on marketing than research in many companies, which means that we have new drugs that are expensive and have almost no added value compared to existing drugs, which would be cheaper. this should be considered in detail in a future review. our national health systems are crashing under the cost and every measure that can alleviate them should be taken. the fact that there is no obligation to test therapeutic value added is a real lacuna in our legislation.
mr president, mr van rompuy, we know how much you are concerned about the unity of europe, both internally and externally. in my view, the way in which the member states are represented in the g20 creates two categories of european states within the 27: those with membership status and those without it, the have and the have not. it is the opposite of unity and statutory equality. do you not agree, mr president of the european council, that the best way to ensure the economic cohesion and coordination of the european union within the framework of the g20 would be to have the same union represented by its institutions, including the commission and the council, and not by a few member states? if so, do you intend to do something about it?
madam president, i would like to add my voice to those who welcome the compromise reached by the european parliament on financial supervision. this is a very satisfactory result, not because this house has stood up to the representatives of the states, but because this compromise is valid because it is meaningful. the package had to be given a more european tone, its efficiency and credibility were at stake. if mrs goulard and i - i, as the fictitious rapporteur of my group - have fought so hard to ensure that the president of the central bank is the de facto president of the european systemic risk board, it is because we are fully aware of the scope of the matter. in a landscape which will remain very fragmented between national authorities, we need a european body with unquestionable competence and legitimacy. even the british may understand! the president of the central bank will be able to impose his authority and prestige on the systemic risk committee vis-à-vis its many interlocutors - the council of ministers first and foremost. finally, it is not an excess of power that should be feared, but rather an excess of weakness that should be combated, and in conclusion i would like to express the wish that all the authorities should be put in place as soon as possible and that a climate of trust should be established between all the partners concerned. the bet is not won. the european union, again, has been slow to get off the ground, but in the end we are now laying the interesting foundations for a model which is bound to evolve in the coming years.
in writing. absent from strasbourg because representing the european parliament at the annual meeting of the interparliamentary assembly of asean countries meeting from 20 to 25 september in hanoi, i was unable to vote on the package on financial supervisory bodies. i want to emphasize that i support it wholeheartedly.
on behalf of the alde group. thank you, mr president, but in the face of the limited progress in the drc, we regret that we have had to make serious setbacks. there's still a lot of work to be done in this country. the un in the drc, rather than being able to guarantee stability in this bloody country, must report extremely serious violations of human rights. this is not a matter of a few rare acts of violence perpetrated by a few rare individuals, which would in itself be quite reprehensible; no, we cannot reduce what is happening in the drc to a few citizens exposed to sexual violence by perpetrators. here we are dealing, i fear, with a phenomenon which goes beyond the individual. indeed, consistent information regarding the events in the drc between 30 july and 4 august puts these crimes on a different scale. atul khare, the un's chief of peacekeeping operations, reports that some 500 people, including women, children and infants, have been raped. we can no longer just condemn these heinous crimes. we must go further, identify those responsible, bring them to justice, deter potential criminals, but also tackle the causes, tackle the background on which the incidents we deplore can multiply. tackling the causes can in no way be interpreted as a mitigating circumstance for perpetrators of sexual violence. the answer to all these challenges is certainly military and police, at least in the short term, but not only. in fact, we are dealing with a state crisis. i am weighing my words, a crisis in a state which is no longer able to carry out its royal duties, including, in particular, the guarantee of security which citizens of all countries can rely on. the response must come from both the drc, the african union, the united nations, and the international community. in view of all the elements which may constitute answers to the problems facing the congolese people, nothing, absolutely nothing, can replace the responsibility of the drc authorities. but at the same time, we have to be there for them to help them.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, more than a thousand camps, according to ngo estimates, 3 to 5 million people incarcerated, almost all of them accused of endangering state security, allegations concerning organ trafficking. although the list is not exhaustive, it is nevertheless very worrying. the forced labor camps in china are a real disgrace. the international community's reaction, however, remains very timid. in fact, what we are expecting from the european union is that it will indicate measured steps, albeit measured, but nevertheless capable of leading all of china's trading partners to show a united attitude in order to obtain real concessions from china. we've already created task forces for smaller issues.
madam president, the successive conferences on the protection of biodiversity, rather than providing solutions, serve at best to update the poor record in this area. is it money or responsibility? i'd say both. the forest, home to most species, is threatened by corruption and indifference, among other things. corruption, which is blamed on both the leaders of developing countries and those who profit from bad governance, is only part of the reason for the failure. as for indifference, it is worth remembering that our consumption habits are not neutral in this respect either. how can i be more responsible? if i have not enough time, i will give you an example: forest certification. patterns are in place. can the commission say whether, in its view, the import restrictions and the introduction of the two forest certification systems help to limit the damage in this area? is there an evaluation? if so, could you share with us your main conclusions?
member of the commission. - madam president, mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, just a few days after the agreement reached in the basle committee, i think it is very important that parliament shows its commitment to banking reform and shows that europe can and must hold its own in the world. i would like to thank othmar karas and the members of the econ committee for their commitment and for this excellent report. you raise a number of critical points, mr president, which will be studied very carefully before our proposal for a revision of the regulatory capital directive is adopted next spring. i would like to say first of all that i share your view, mr karas, that the problems specifically european are important - our european banking economy is not like that of other regions of the world on all subjects - the need, mr karas, for a thorough impact assessment and the need to maintain a level playing field at international level. it should be stressed that improved bank capitalisation is a necessary precondition for a more stable and robust financial sector, but it will not be sufficient. we also need, ladies and gentlemen - you know, you are working on it - stricter supervision, stronger corporate governance, a framework for speculative financial activities and a framework for crisis management and resolution of banking crises. here's our road map. much progress has already been made in this respect, thanks in particular to you. i am thinking of the supervisory agreement and the green paper on the governance of financial undertakings. the commission, for its part, is doing its job and will do it in such a way that before the end of next spring we will have on your table and the council's table all the texts that are required of us to implement the g20 recommendations. it is in this spirit that i presented the draft regulations on derivatives and short selling a few days ago. and we will be presenting, in a few days, a new communication on tools for banking resolution and crisis management. but, returning to today's debate, i would like to share three concerns with othmar karas. firstly, on the recognition of capital instruments issued by cooperative banks, mutual funds, in the context of the definition of the best quality capital (tier one capital). the agreement reached in basle will enable us to take account of the specific features of these non-listed banks, which play a vital role in financing european businesses. my services are now working with experts in the member states to define technical arrangements for the proper implementation of these new principles in european legislation. secondly, as regards the rules on liquidity and the definition of the liquidity buffer, the commission is fully aware of the problem raised in particular for denmark and austria. the very serious concerns expressed by the commission in this context are the very reason why agreement has not yet been reached on this issue. we had reservations and my services will continue to work with our partners in basel to find a solution, particularly with regard to the recognition of covered bonds, covered bonds. thirdly, on the leverage ratio. we cannot go back on our commitments in the context of the g20 on this point. we are, however, satisfied with the agreement reached in basle that the leverage ratio will be part of pillar ii for a period of follow-up, as mr karas said earlier, with a view to a migration to treatment in pillar i. this migration will not be automatic and we will include a revision clause on this subject in our draft proposal for crd 4. a few words now on the implementation of the basel accord in the european union. this financial crisis has shocked the world. it gives us lessons, which we must learn. global prudential rules were not adapted to reality. the recent agreement reached by the group of central bank governors and bank supervisors in basel is in addition to the reforms already implemented to strengthen the existing rules. this agreement is, in my view, good news. this is an important step towards strengthening the rules of the game and global financial stability and this new basel agreement will help to establish, at international level, common rules for the banking sector, which is extremely important. the agreement also provides for a balanced solution: companies will have enough time to adapt to these new requirements, which will gradually improve the health of the banking system without, we believe, jeopardizing economic growth. ladies and gentlemen, my departments and staff - and i want to thank them - have done a great deal of work in basle to find common ground with our non-european partners. i hope that the g20 heads of state or government will endorse this new basel agreement at the next summit in seoul in november. but we won't stop there. the next stage will be devoted to the substantive reforms of the banking system at union level. we always take account of the specificities of our union in the implementation of international rules and, ladies and gentlemen, the crd 4 directive will not be exempt from this rule, and we will also take account of the specificities of the european union. and in this context we shall be carrying out, in particular, the macroeconomic and microeconomic analysis of this basle agreement, and you will of course be informed of this, as will your colleagues, mr karas. we aim to adopt the proposal for a directive in the first quarter of 2011. member states are to transpose it by 1 january 2013. this will give them sufficient time to adapt to the new arrangements. but we must be realistic. this agreement reached in basle is a very significant step forward, but i repeat, much remains to be done. we will work together with you, with the member states, in the coming months, to implement one of the essential reforms of the post-crisis period. i would like to be very clear on this point too: we are going to be very attentive, very vigilant as to how our main partners - first of all the americans, but not just the united states - in the world will also implement this essential reform correctly and in due time. that is a question i will raise on the occasion of my forthcoming second visit to the united states at the end of this month. finally, i agree with you, mr karas, that the european parliament should be involved even more in this process. i therefore undertake, in conclusion, to keep you, your committee and the plenary regularly informed of all future developments within this basle committee.
madam president, i would first like to thank our rapporteur, othmar karas, for his excellent work and i fully support his approach to this complex issue. i would like to emphasize, however, in my two minutes, a point which has been raised in the report but which deserves our attention. the question here is the issue of pfandbriefe in the context of liquidity standards. the new liquidity regime in europe, which we are about to redefine, should better recognise their economic, legal and operational specificities. letters of credit are used for long-term financing and investment in the wider economy. the current basel committee proposal on them would have a disproportionate and negative impact on the european economy compared to other major economic areas such as the united states. i certainly welcome the fact that the basle committee's agreement of 26 july recognises letters of credit as highly liquid assets in the context of the calculation of the liquidity coverage ratio. i would, however, call on the basle committee and the commission, mr barnier, to give this financial instrument better recognition in order to allow for appropriate diversification of eligible assets and to avoid market distortions. this low-risk financial instrument must benefit from a favourable environment for its development.
madam president, poverty eradication is indeed a millennium development goal, but it is also a european goal in europe. indeed, in europe we have the highest average standard of living globally, but nowhere in the world is there such a rift within our european society and between europe and africa. it's the widest gap in the world between living standards. so our job is to close the gaps. too many europeans in europe are not entitled to a protein meal every 48 hours. too many children are poor and settle with health and education problems in a lasting poverty. too many women suffer from wage gaps, are out of work, have precarious jobs and, again, training is the only way to bring them back into our society out of poverty. too many older people, and often women, have accumulated delays in decent employment and wages throughout their working lives. there are too many poor people in the rural world. many of our anti-poverty policies are urban policies. we must also help to combat poverty in rural areas. so i beg you, the fight against poverty... (the president withdrew the floor)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that three things are necessary in this debate. first, globalisation has increased inequalities within countries but reduced them between nations, as the success of emerging countries proves, said an international monetary fund expert at the oslo conference, where the imf joined forces with the international labour organisation. while there are still important differences between nations, it would be wrong to attribute the sole responsibility for the persistence of poverty to globalization in terms of inequalities within our countries. europe is in a situation, and this is my second observation, which is very specific. it is the only major economic area to have experienced mass unemployment in the last three decades, as professor fitoussi points out. the 2020 strategy offers interesting prospects for tackling structural unemployment, but it is in the context of managing the current crisis that the european union must look for ways to improve employment. many of us believe that if the focus is solely on fiscal consolidation, the objective of reducing poverty may become illusory. thirdly, our approach must include both the international and the external dimension of the fight against poverty. in the spirit of sustainable development, one cannot be promoted at the expense of the other. the malthusian approach of saying that what is spent on solidarity is simply... (the president withdraws the speaker).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is in a bad way, the world is not in a better way. the council representative stressed earlier that globalisation requires action at european and international level. but when we look at what is happening in the european union and indeed at international level, it is clear that it is precisely concrete action that is lacking. from summit to summit, the big and the small who claim to govern us put on their big egos, shower each other with pompous words, while the main conclusion of each summit is to meet again. moreover, the so-called world governance that the g20 wants to embody has no basis in international law and operates outside the united nations system. in fact, the g20 has declared itself, it operates without written rules, it is a club of rich countries that have surrounded themselves with a few so-called emerging countries, in exemplary democracies such as saudi arabia. martin schulz has just quoted from one of these empty g20 statements. the same could be done with the communiqués issued at the end of european summits. all these promises, all these empty words, never followed by any effect. to top it all off, europe is suffering from the franco-german mini-summits where this strange merkel-sarkozy couple pretends to show us the way. guy verhofstadt just mentioned the casino games. i'm tempted to add, play your games, nothing is right anymore. the commission and parliament must unite to save the european project and preserve the community method.
mr president, the crisis is far from over and the countries in turmoil, like this one, are proof of that. in europe, it seems to me that it has become above all an integration crisis. the deauville agreement, which torpedoes the community method and reflects the illusion of grandeur still held by a few member states, is yet another example of this. in 2050, it seems to me that europe will still represent 6 or 7% of the world's population, with a declining economic power. will we meet the challenges of international competition by continuing to compete with ourselves, or will we meet these challenges by submitting to the discipline of the community method and acting together? to do this, europe will need means, new means, innovative means. the discussion on the future financial perspective is a good opportunity to discuss and to clarify them: in the field of research and development, also in the field of external action. what is the point of creating a 28th diplomatic corps of europe which will simply add to those already in place without diminishing them? this would give the states additional room for manoeuvre and give europe the means it needs to finally pursue a policy that is perceived by the citizens. they're asking for it.
in writing. i supported my colleague edite estrela in her positions in favour of improving the safety and health of pregnant, child-bearing and breastfeeding workers at work. "woman is the future of man", wrote louis aragon. children are precious. they need to be protected. their mothers, too.
in writing. the joint debate on the european council, the g-20, the report of the special committee on the financial, economic and social crisis and the report on european governance did not produce any clear lines or relevant recommendations on the financial crisis. each went there from his own personal interpretation of confused and diffused texts. unfortunately, this is the fate of these reports on own initiative, which are very much in favour but at the same time do not say much. the feio report was discussed far too late, when the european commission has already tabled the directives that will reform the stability pact and the governance of the euro area. in these circumstances, what is the point of voting recommendations to the commission? parliament should have much more stringent rules of procedure and should abide by them. it is about its effectiveness and credibility. the reform of the euro area stability pact and governance will reach its decisive moment with the analysis of the legislative texts. i will do this work with others, not a priori, but with application. it is important that parliament should support a realistic and at the same time ambitious reform to rebuild monetary union. it is by serious work that an institution gains its legitimacy in the community building, not by ... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
the rapporteur. - mr president, i am not hiding from you that the provisions foreseen in the accompanying measures for the banana sector are a bet on the future, and for various reasons. firstly, the general trend towards reducing trade preferences, which has so far benefited the acp countries, is not going to be reversed any time soon. negotiations are already under way on import duties of around 75 euros per tonne of bananas, whereas we are working here on a basis of 114 euros per tonne. secondly, the commission had no choice but to agree to negotiate a tariff reduction agreement with the competing acp banana exporting countries. the alternative would have been to let the dispute settlement tribunal deal with the matter. i personally believe that a negotiated solution is the least harmful to the acp countries. and it is in this spirit that the banana accompanying measures, which would not have been the automatic result of a judgment of the dispute settlement tribunal, should also be situated. thirdly, as the world will not stop in 2013, when the banana support measures end, we continue to believe that it is important to prepare for the post-2013 period now. the basic duty of 114 euros levied at the european union's borders on each tonne of bananas is about to be exceeded in reality. i said at the outset that we were already talking about 75 euros per tonne. i therefore think it is appropriate - and this is my fourth point - to preserve the prerogatives of the european parliament in the field of supervision. the right of supervision, in accordance with article 290, must not be allowed to become a dead letter in relation to strategic documents. i think i can say that we have had very fruitful cooperation with the commission in this matter. this parliament is not a hindrance to the circle, on the contrary, it is constantly enriching the debate and helping the commission to make progress in this area. finally, mr president, this is a personal remark, but i am making it as rapporteur. we are once again witnessing a war between the emerging countries on the one hand and the less developed countries on the other. and if it were not for the european union as an ally of the weak to mitigate the effects of trade regulation, in all its brutality, the least developed countries would feel even more alone. and i would invite the commission to look at the post-2013 period now because i believe that the measures which are going to be adopted now and which i hope will come into force shortly will be enough to make banana production sustainable in the countries concerned. i hope that these measures will help to make this production sustainable and to ensure that those who cannot do so can find alternatives. i think that after 2013, i will say it again, the water will not stop flowing under the bridges of the rhine and as far as bananas are concerned, the problems will remain the same. we must already think about a post-2013 strategy.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after the crisis broke out, the european summit and then the g20 called for the regulation of all segments of the financial market in hedge funds. the commission quickly made proposals, but unusual lobbying caused some policy makers to be reluctant to regulate. britain has become the protector of hedge funds located in nearby and distant islands. france, the self-proclaimed champion of international regulation, fell back into its usual protectionism. in parliament it was mainly the liberals who tried to oppose this legislation. mr verhofstadt's group, which is usually so pro-european, proposed that the commission proposal be rejected in its entirety. thanks to the rapporteur, jean-paul gauzès, the epp-socialist-green coalition, followed even by the gue, a substantial majority position was 'contained' at econ committee level. twenty-one trilogues later, and thanks to the personal commitment of minister didier reynders and commissioner michel barnier, parliament's negotiators reached a proposal for a directive which was a significant step forward, especially in the medium term. it will take until 2018 to achieve an internal market with the same duties, obligations and rights for all funds. the european regulation will be in place as of 2013. there will be a strengthening of the european regulator esma to which the directive will give no less than 72 powers of intervention and supervision. the directive, it should be stressed, is the first european legislative act to apply to hedge funds and private equities. it will guarantee a very high level of protection for investors, not only professional investors but above all for citizens who invest their savings in financial products. there will be very specific rules on risk management, cash management. there will be more transparency, more information to investors about the strategies followed by the managers. the leverage effect will be controlled, with managers having to announce in advance their own limits for the use of leveraged debt. regulators will be able to intervene if the strategy is too risky. the remuneration and golden bonuses of the managers will be limited and cannot be cashed in full immediately. the directive will require more transparency for private equity funds. these will be welcome to finance the real economy. but the directive will impose serious limits on the way vulture funds can cut up businesses. there will be a two-year period during which the capital and certain reserves of the acquired company cannot be distributed to the new owners. in addition to the lock-in, consultations with the company's staff and information from the state on the entrepreneurial strategy of the purchasers are carried out. in short, mr president, the directive can be improved, but the socialists and democrats will support it because it will shed a lot of light on the black hole in international finance which alternative funds have hitherto represented. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, throughout this difficult birth of the alternative fund directive, i have been advocating the principle of equal treatment for fund managers, whether they are from the european union or not. this principle sounds obvious, but it has been met with countless difficulties. the result presented to us today is satisfactory. i thank the negotiators and, above all, our rapporteur, mr gauzès, who, after this particularly painful birth for him, deserves substantial maternity leave. i would like to stress above all that the question of the treatment of third countries must be seen in two ways, depending on whether one is inside or outside the european union. thanks in particular to the european parliament, all funds sold in the european union will be subject to comparable regulation. this is more or less a level playing field. however, during the transitional period, non-eu entities will benefit from the national investment regime, while eu funds and managers will be subject to the directive, which is generally stricter. the situation is different in markets outside the european union: there, european funds and their managers will remain subject to the directive, whereas funds from third countries will not. it will therefore be much more difficult to sell european products in the rest of the world because they will be less flexible and more expensive. we must be aware of this disadvantage, even if it was for a time inevitable. as far as depositaries are concerned, and also in view of the fact that we shall make the exercise more restrictive, particularly because of the new responsibilities which will fall to them, the increase in the price should lead to substantial changes in the trade, mr president, i am not saying this to show my opposition, but to indicate that this new regulation is not trivial. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, today we celebrate a victory, albeit small, for green energy policy and a more european energy policy. i firstly want to thank our excellent delegation from all parties, under the leadership of kathleen. i think we did a good job. ich will ausdrücklich auch herrn oettinger loben. gestern mussten wir leider sehr kritisch sein bei der vorstellung der energie-agenda, aber dieses instrument ist auch zustande gekommen, weil sie sich persönlich eingesetzt haben, teilweise auch gegenüber der bundesregierung und ihren cdu-partnern in deutschland, damit wir dieses instrument bekommen. why is it a small and bitter victory? because – and some have said this – this is eur 150 million for the decentralised, the local, energy investments, where, on the other hand, we have billions – one billion for carbon sequestration, for example. i am still wondering if this one billion will be used. we are getting increasing indications that this project will not work. there is no balance between the decentralised, near-to-the-citizens, local-area projects and the big projects, some of which will, i think, fail. why are we as greens nevertheless voting for this project today? it is because we are optimists. we are optimistic that this eur 150 million, well managed, will create the base for a much bigger instrument which we will get under the next financial perspective. there are two conditions for that. the first condition is quality projects. i think that the eib and kfw, which will manage it, will also look at deep renovation, and not only shallow renovation, projects. we need to leapfrog, especially when it comes to buildings and efficiency. the second condition is cutting the red tape for the local authorities that will apply for projects to get cofinancing. these two issues are crucial. therefore my questions to you, commissioner, are: what will the commission do to make sure that this fund will finance or give credit to quality projects? and how will the commission act to cut red tape so that local authorities have easy access to these funds?
in writing. - the european livestock industry is currently in a deep crisis as european producers are being pushed ever closer to the edge of survival by exploding production costs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis. i expect the commission to provide in its landmark legislative proposal on the future of the cap for efficient market instruments and the appropriate financial resources to ensure a stable feed and cereals market and thus to guarantee sufficient planning certainty for farmers. we also need a european protein plan to promote the cultivation of protein crops and legumes in order to reduce dependence on this strategic feed sector, which is also important for the dairy industry. i also call for the measures to support livestock farming in the lessfavoured areas, including luxembourg, to be stepped up. the commission should take into account the need for caution in its proposals in the milk sector, as 70% of red meat produced in the eu comes from dairy cows. we have the strictest animal health and hygiene regulations in the world. i therefore believe that the same requirements must apply to imported foodstuffs in order to reduce the market disadvantage of our producers caused by unfair competition.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the euro is in trouble, but what convertible currency is not, after the systemic crisis caused by the financial madness. the debt of the states is a serious problem. however, the increase in government deficits is the result of the public bailout of private banks. in addition, the economic machine had to be restarted. the financial crisis quickly spread to the real economy, causing a sharp decline in activity and unemployment. the world of crazy finance has apparently not learned from the crisis. survivors of wall street and the city are speculating in the money markets and selling cdss at a loss that they don't even own. the interest rates on borrowing from countries suspected of defaulting should be raised by imposing indirect austerity policies on them, which will make it even more difficult for them to recover. european solidarity is organized with great difficulty and with a certain parsimony. the rescue of greece means first of all the rescue of french and german banks, which hold a large portfolio of greek debt. the support for ireland is primarily a rescue of british and german banks which would suffer greatly from a failure of irish banks. the fact that the euro rate remains volatile is not an indication of the common currency's weakness. this reflects the nervousness of the markets, especially in the face of a currency war between the us and china. since the beginning of the year, china has not borrowed in dollars, but sold. the tax situation in the united states is worse than that in europe. in addition to the federal public deficits, there are huge private deficits. of the 50 states in the union, 48 have a budget deficit. mr van rompuy spoke of a struggle for the survival of the euro. he's wrong. the euro, the beacon of stability just mentioned by mr trichet, will survive mr van rompuy, because the union and its supporting structure, the eurogroup, are the most important economic entity in the world. despite the real problems to which europe is responding with a permanent hesitation, it must be stressed that at world level the 27 are the largest exporter of goods, the largest importer of goods, the largest exporter of services. we have the most solvent internal market in the world. european companies export twice as much to the domestic market as to world markets. the union is the first destination for direct investment from third countries. the eu's enterprises hold the largest stocks of world investments. with 500 million citizens, or 7% of the world's population, the union generates 30% of the world's gross domestic product. the united states accounts for 25%, japan for 8% and china for 8% of world production. our european union, which also provides 55% of the world's development aid, could be much more important if our leaders had a little more political courage, if they used the strength of europe. i would like to conclude by saying that a strict and transparent framework must be imposed on international finance. we must work together to overcome our problems.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, of course there are the cofactors which have undoubtedly favoured the development of cholera in haiti. it's not an answer, but it's an explanation. the answer to this scourge must be given in two stages. in the meantime, humanitarian workers on the ground confirm that soap, water purifiers and adequate hygiene education are needed. the long term is also being prepared in the present situation. in a country where everything has yet to be done or re-done, reconstruction is necessary after the earthquake and must give priority to the construction of infrastructure designed to improve both individual and collective hygiene. i dare to believe that eight months after the new york conference on the reconstruction of haiti, the lack of funds can no longer be used as an excuse for the poor progress made so far, since all those involved agreed that the humanitarian phase had to be extended for many more months. it will also be necessary to name those responsible for the slowdown without taking too many precautions in speaking.
in writing. i abstained on all of mrs matera's reports on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for different regions in the netherlands, not because i was opposed to these projects, but to warn the dutch government, which has a populist and anti-european policy. the netherlands is opposed to an increase in the european budget, but does not mind cashing in european aid. the netherlands is also the largest beneficiary of the internal market after germany. it is time for dutch politics to return to its roots. the netherlands is nevertheless a founding member of the union.
in writing. i voted for the rapkay report and for national subsidies for the coal industry. coal will remain an essential component of the global energy mix. if european coal could no longer be mined, it would be necessary to import coal from the united states or australia.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, bees play an important role in pollination and the production of honey and other products of beekeeping. this sector is characterised by a wide diversity of bee-keeping conditions and by the dispersion and variety of operators from production to the marketing stage. certain harmonised rules have been established at european union level concerning marketing standards for honey and the protection of bee health. the single market regulation provides for a series of measures to improve the conditions for the production and marketing of apiculture products. these measures may be included in triennial apiculture programmes, which are drawn up by the member states and co-financed by the budget of the european union. the budget for these programmes increased from eur 26 million to eur 32 million for the period 2011-2013. the measures appear to be producing positive results in the apiculture sector, both for the member states and for the beekeepers. it is also important to note that all the member states have communicated a programme, which also shows their interest in beekeeping and the needs of this sector. the sector certainly faces a number of challenges. on the one hand, the number of beekeepers is declining, which requires encouraging and training newcomers. on the other hand, competition from imports from third countries and issues related to the quality of honey from these countries. then there is the increase in bee mortality due to a number of different factors, including varroasis and other diseases. the issue of bee health is of particular concern within but also outside the european union. beekeepers' organisations are calling for the european union to focus more on bees in this respect. in november 2008, the european parliament also adopted a resolution on the situation in the beekeeping sector, which called on the commission to put in place specific actions and ensure coordination of these actions. it is clear that bee health is an important issue and that it must be protected by the most appropriate actions, taking into account the specificities of the sector and the different actors involved. in this context, the commission has already launched a number of initiatives to address the concerns of the beekeeping sector and further actions are also planned in the future. the commission intends to present a communication in the near future which will seek to clarify the issues related to bee health and the key actions the commission intends to take to address them. this communication will serve as a basis for discussion with the european parliament, the council, member state authorities and stakeholders. i hope that this discussion will help to identify possible new actions that are needed at the european union level on the issue of maintaining bee-keeping and the production of honey and bee products, but also to help maintain the health of bees and possibly prevent certain problems from arising because of diseases or pollution-related issues.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. when i took over from my german colleague reimer böge 16 years ago in the committee on agriculture and rural development the task of reporting on the situation of beekeeping in the european union, another german colleague said to me with a slightly dismissive tone: 'well, small animals for small countries'. since then, i have been trying to make it clear to the ever-growing eu how important these small animals are not only to our quality of life, but to our very survival. we have made steady progress in raising awareness at all levels in the eu of the need for a comprehensive common policy to ensure that there are enough of these small animals in the eu and enough beekeepers of all ages to keep and care for them. this is all the more so because the excess of bees in many regions has given rise to legitimate concerns about the widespread presence of bees and beekeepers. that is why i am now taking the initiative of this oral question to the european commission with debate and resolution, and this resolution is supported by all the groups in the house, for which i am very grateful. the aim justifies this joint action of all the political forces in this house in our resolution, which is short, structured, legible and understandable, which is not always the case in this house. we are clear about where the problems lie and the concrete solutions we propose have been worked out in close cooperation with the profession. beekeepers from many member states came to strasbourg today with their products, but also with their concerns and expectations, to make it clear that they need our support to solve their problems. if we consider that in a budget of over 140 billion, only 32 million is spent to safeguard three quarters of food production and four fifths of the plant world that depends on pollination, it should be clear to everyone here that today it is important to ensure the continuation and expansion of this policy beyond 2013. that is our message. i have no doubt that they will be heard, not only in this parliament but also in the commission, the council and the member states. we'll make sure of that. i therefore urge my colleagues to be present and to vote on thursday. we owe it to the bees. they're asleep now, while we're still discussing this. by the way, i think the discussion is... (the president cut the speaker off) i would also like to say that the conference of presidents, which has no better idea than to put this discussion to the end of a night session, still needs tutoring on the importance of bees in europe.
mr president, the question i want to put was originally addressed to mr barroso, but as he is not here, i would like to address it to the belgian presidency. today, commercial dumping can be practiced without violating the wto anti-dumping rules. indeed, with a currency that is chronically undervalued, the same result is achieved. even if we are beginning to approach the subject of competitive currency devaluations rather timidly, the question of what is acceptable for the european union remains. my question to the belgian presidency is this: if the g20 cannot put an end to the monetary disorder, do you think that the wto negotiations could come out unscathed?
in writing. i abstained on the evans report on dangerous substances in electrical and electronic equipment because i find the parliament's approach bizarre. on the one hand, the report is vehemently opposed to nanoparticles, without scientific evidence, which, because they are small, must necessarily be dangerous. on the other hand, the proposal for a directive, which purports to encourage the development of renewable energy technologies, excludes waste from photovoltaic panels. either the electrical substances are dangerous or they are not. if the precautionary principle is to be enforced, it should also apply to photovoltaic technology.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would firstly like to give my thanks, and those of my group, for the work achieved by lena kolarska-bobińska, as well as by all the shadows. it was probably not easy to get us all together – like herding sheep – but you did. my first message is, ‘implement, implement, implement’. we do not need a new energy policy. we have to implement the climate package, the third internal market package and the security of gas supply. then we have to add targeted policies to that. you mentioned energy efficiency. that is crucial and we await mr bendtsen’s report, which will go into more detail on that. the second concerns the internal market. commissioner, i think you have done an excellent job on the infrastructure package, but i hope there will be no relaxation, in a certain sense, on competition policy. we have a good record over the last five years in going against market domination and this must be a key focus of our european energy policy. regarding renewables, our report is much more outspoken and your eu strategy and the energy 2020 strategy are very vague. jens rohde is right. renewables will make up 70% of all power investments in europe over the next ten years. renewable technology is our biggest export market in all energy technologies. i do not think that it sends the right message to dilute renewables in the eu 2020 strategy. we would need a specific chapter for what will be the biggest investments of the next ten years. in our report we are also much more cautious about reopening the discussion about national fit-in systems and other systems. governments want national support schemes and we should not confuse this debate by reopening that one.gas will be important, as will oil in the future. i have two concrete questions for you. one is to ask how you see the gas market in the power sector for the next decade. secondly, at your press conference you were very clear about peak oil and also the risk of reaching usd 200 a barrel, so how does this link in with the transport policy at commission level?
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, in these times of crisis, little room should be left for the usual and the usual. if the eu-africa summit is not to be a failure, it should succeed in tackling the real problems. moreover, and this is by far the most important aspect, it should open up prospects in view of the considerable potential of the african continent. africa is expected to send a clear message about improving its governance, its capacity to deliver value and its determination to stop the plundering of its resources. africa is also expected to tell us what obstacles it is not yet able to remove on its own. europe is expected to develop its capacity to listen, its complicity in the african approach, anxious to free the black continent politically, economically and commercially. europe's responsibility in these areas is overwhelming. if the eu-africa summit is to help pave the way for africa to be better represented on the security council, better represented in the g20, better able to eradicate poverty, the summit will not have been in vain.
in writing. i voted against the report on international trade policies in the context of the climate change imperatives, as i do not share the rapporteur's views and reasoning in any way. its demand to increase greenhouse gas reduction targets regardless of the outcomes of international negotiations would put european companies at a significant competitive disadvantage. the rapporteur's proposal to compensate for this disadvantage by protectionist measures such as a carbon tax at the union's borders and regulated minimum prices for co2 would widen the competitive deficit to other sectors down the industrial production chain. furthermore, these measures would undermine the union's external trade policy by making it more difficult to conclude future free trade agreements, whether bilateral or multilateral. the copenhagen conference a year ago showed that unilateral action by the european union leads to the failure of its climate policy. its economic partners do not allow themselves to be dictated by european objectives or methods. the union must support its enterprises in their efforts to reduce their energy intensity while maintaining their international competitiveness. a more pragmatic approach to international negotiations would be a start.
in writing. i cannot follow the logic behind the european parliament's work on climate change. many meps believe that the eu should do more and more to reduce emissions: -30%, -40%, -50%, while we are failing to implement the famous 2020 strategy! the rest of the world is not paying attention to european gestures. in copenhagen, "the agreement" was made between americans, chinese, indians, brazilians and africans. the european union was not even invited. in cancun there will be no "binding" agreement on the famous co2 certificates for the very reason that the legislators of the united states, canada and australia do not want them, and that china, india, brazil and others will not let themselves be locked into such a trap. the european union should invest more in new technologies, not in actions which serve only financial speculation.
mr president, i have twice been refused the opportunity to put an oral question on the agenda concerning the referendum on the future status of south sudan. it should be recalled that under the 2005 comprehensive peace agreement, south sudan has the opportunity to decide after a period of five years whether or not to remain in the sudanese state. the referendum is due to take place on 9 january. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. by continually postponing the debate, we are depriving ourselves of our right to political impulse. that's my point. and i still believe that it would be wiser to try to prevent conflict situations rather than passively waiting for the drama to break out.
in writing. if the events of recent months require governments to act with urgency and to take directly applicable decisions, the establishment of a permanent crisis mechanism to ensure the stability of the euro area must be based on an unquestionable legal and regulatory basis. it is therefore clear that the european parliament must act as a co-legislator to implement the fundamental reforms that have become necessary to stabilise economic and monetary union. a purely intergovernmental solution cannot be the adequate answer. the reform of emu is a project which is both essential and of considerable implications. we all know the value of the single european currency to the european project. the current fragility of emu calls for bold and innovative decisions. in this context, the use of 'euro-bonds' is a path worth exploring and discussing without taboo. however, there are many obstacles at the moment: we must be aware of the institutional, legal and financial implications of introducing such an instrument, which is changing the nature of the european union. contrary to what some of its promoters believe, it would involve even more discipline and rigor.
in writing. i abstained on the regulation for the implementation of the european citizens' initiative. in my view, parliament is going the wrong way in trying to facilitate these initiatives as much as possible, in particular by reducing the number of member states whose signatures must come from. i remain a supporter of representative democracy. citizens' initiatives will not help to solve the eu's economic, social, environmental and societal problems. the so-called citizens' initiatives will mainly serve extremist political forces who will seize these instruments to campaign for the reintroduction of the death penalty, against the construction of minarets, against the "creeping islamization" of europe and other populist topics.
madam president, mrs andrikien's report is a remarkable reference document for all those who speak about human rights. it is good to share lessons with our partners in the rest of the world on human rights. if some countries are still in the middle ages when it comes to respect for human rights standards, europe would be well advised to give up its overly arrogant stance. the european union's criticism of the authorities of states which continue to violate human rights would be even more credible if our 27 member states agreed, without exception, to implement all the judgments of the strasbourg court of human rights. where are we? is it not time to make a solemn commitment that we will never again have any doubt about our willingness to respect the authority of the bodies we have created?
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, i want to begin by honouring the memory of richard holbrooke, a dedicated diplomat, a champion of peace and a man i was proud to call my friend. i want to pay tribute to the honourable member mr arlacchi for the comprehensive report and for work that i know he has done which has provoked a rich debate in this parliament over the last few months. for my part, i look forward to working very much with him and other colleagues in parliament in the months ahead as we enter what i would describe as a crucial phase in our engagement in afghanistan. as mr arlacchi said, the problems that face afghanistan in a sense concern all of us. violent extremism extends beyond the region. drugs grown and produced in afghanistan find their way to the streets of europe. our engagement is spurred by the need to prevent afghanistan becoming a safe haven for terrorism and criminal activities. but it is equally important that we promote a better, more secure and prosperous future for the people of afghanistan. without that, there will not be a solution. in response to these challenges i want to begin by saying, as i have said many times in other places, that the european union is in afghanistan for the long term. we have an assistance programme up to 2013 – and, i am sure, beyond – and we have now increased the baseline of our assistance to eur 200 million per annum, which is up from eur 150 million per annum previously. with that funding we are able to continue to support health and social welfare as well as governance and the rule of law, and despite the fact that security concerns are in the forefront of all our minds, i believe we have had some noticeable success in key social sectors. i have already mentioned in this house the health sector where, for example, 80% of the country now has some form of access to primary health care, compared with less than 10% in 2001. it is also true that health indictors in afghanistan are still amongst the worst in the world, so we have a long way to go. that said, we know from the un figures that, compared with 2001, 40 000 fewer babies are dying each year in afghanistan, and that is due to considerably improved prenatal care. we also continue to channel as much of our assistance as possible through the afghan government structures to ensure that we get afghani leadership of the reform process. about 50% of our assistance goes either through national programmes or through trust funds that directly support the afghan government. this is good for donor coordination, good for building local capacity and good for reinforcing afghani ownership. it sets a good example for many other donors too. but there is always room for improving international coordination. we need to do more and we need to do it better. but looking at what the european union does, i think we have made real progress, significantly enhanced by the arrival of our new eu special representative head of delegation vygaudas ušackas, who arrived in afghanistan in april. our political messaging is more coherent, and we are enhancing the coordination of our development efforts within the eu through the action plan for afghanistan and pakistan, which was approved in october last year by the council of ministers. the action plan brings the instruments that are being deployed collectively and by individual member states in line with our policy priorities – especially those arising from the kabul conference, which i attended in july. aligning our efforts and our approach is a key aspect of the plan. it identifies areas where we as the european union believe our action will be most effective. indeed, european union development ministers under my chairmanship were discussing precisely these issues last week in brussels. that brings me in a sense to the key message i want to give today, namely that the implementation of our existing strategies needs to be the priority. the strategic framework is in place in both the military and the civilian spheres. together with both presidents, i participated in the isaf meeting in lisbon last month, where the transfer of security responsibility under the nato transition plan was agreed. i have met with general david petraeus three times in recent months and, while much remains to be done, i am confident that the current strategy is beginning to have a real impact. on the civilian side, we had the successful kabul conference. the afghan government is to be applauded for the organisation and the focus of the event in july. it was not the usual roll-call of requests and donor pledges. rather, the agenda focused on how best to prioritise our existing resources and commitments, channelling our efforts into agreed national programmes that have been developed by the afghanis themselves. these national priority programmes paved the way for transition across a range of different sectors and we need now to support them, which is precisely what our action plan is doing. we all know that there can be no sustainable military exit from afghanistan without a civilian framework for stability that can keep the country together. more effective state institutions, better governance, access to basic services, justice and the rule of law are just as important as hard security. we will thus reinforce our efforts to strengthen afghan capacity and will work with the afghan government to foster effective and accountable state institutions, especially at the sub-national level. indeed, in all the areas we are engaged in – rural development, law enforcement, border management or tackling the narcotics trade – we will work to build up local afghan institutions, putting the emphasis on promoting the rule of law and governance and on fighting corruption. on the question of afghan institutions, i want to end with a word on afghan undertakings. our efforts on development will only become sustainable once the afghan government becomes more accountable and inclusive. we need to encourage them to take such a long-term view. at present, half the human capacity in the country is marginalised, and yet we have seen from other examples in the world that the engagement of women in the governance and development processes is fundamental. i was struck by this untapped potential when i met with women’s groups in kabul last july. this will remain a key aspect of our engagement in afghanistan, be it in the political support to women mps in the new afghan parliament or through our support to women’s participation in local development projects such as the widely-recognised national solidarity programme, which we have been funding through the world bank since 2002. as i close, i am grateful to the honourable member, mr arlacchi, for highlighting so many important issues in this report. i believe it comes at a really opportune moment with so much at stake to both our military and our civilian commitments.
the committee on development and cooperation has tabled a number of amendments. - madam president, afghanistan has little choice. firstly, the status quo is no longer a realistic option as nato forces announce their withdrawal one by one from a country whose ability to guarantee its own security is still unknown. secondly, is a return to the pre-2000 situation an option? and giving a foothold to terrorist networks would again expose the country to a showdown with foreign armed forces. thirdly, should we hand over power to the moderate taliban? i am unable to comment on that option, since no one can tell us what a moderate taliban is. let's ask the afghan women who are coming out of hell and just got a little bit of freedom. fourthly, the continuation of the efforts required to consolidate the few gains made and to continue the struggle for more democracy and more development. karzai, who wants to embody this option, faces a major obstacle: his own person. until there's a credible alternative, this is the only option we have left.
madam president, i would like to ask lady ashton a question about defence europe but also about nato. the treaty of lisbon allows the member states of the european union to cooperate more closely in defence matters, if they wish, of course. it is called structured cooperation or enhanced cooperation, whatever. can the high representative tell me whether such cooperation is already being considered by a group of countries and, if so, what are the criteria for admission to this form of cooperation?
madam president, if it were not for mr gbagbo's ego, côte d'ivoire would be an inspiration to all developing countries that aspire to democracy. in the last elections, the ivorian people showed a very high degree of political maturity. moreover, international bodies, beginning with the united nations, are hardly impressed by the ultimate actions of a vicious loser. mr. gbagbo should leave. he has no other way to preserve the little dignity he has left. so far, the european union has reacted appropriately, particularly in terms of targeting sanctions. sanctions must be applied not to the people, who have spoken out in an exemplary manner, but to mr gbagbo and his relatives. my question to mrs ashton is: what action do you intend to take if the situation were to escalate and the use of force were to threaten both ivorian citizens and expatriates living in côte d'ivoire? furthermore, do you think that the cdao and the african union have sufficient capacity to deal with this problem?
