the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the information available to it. the question is not whether we are for or against fighting tax evasion. we're certainly over. the question is what means we want to use to achieve this. the current situation between member states is such that even on request, there are countries that are reluctant to exchange information on taxpayers with other member states of the european union. the proposal we are discussing is that we will introduce an automatic system where all information about citizens and companies abroad will be exchanged between tax administrations. i think the important thing is that when we do any kind of information sharing, we don't add to the bureaucratic machinery. the european union is currently in crisis, with unemployment at 20% in spain, over 20% in latvia and well over 10% in many other countries. unfortunately, this trend is on an upward trend. this has forced member states to cut budgetary expenditure, which is in fact contrary to the increase in bureaucracy. we cannot afford to increase the bureaucratic apparatus. but to implement this automatic tax exchange system, the bureaucratic apparatus would inevitably have to be increased. i think that european taxpayers simply cannot afford it at this point. there is a second proposal which i think is worth considering, namely, not going as far as the ultimate option, perhaps, of automatically exchanging all information, but ultimately developing the idea that all member states should exchange all information on request. so automatically exchange information on demand. thank you.
thank you, chairman. the speculative attacks on greece, spain or portugal are not the cause of the problem, they are the effect of the problem. we know very well that no family can spend more money than it takes in for a long time. the result is bankruptcy. the same is true of national governments. no government can spend more money than it takes in taxes for any length of time. the result is either government bankruptcy or, as we see today, speculative attacks on the currency. what these countries need to do is the same thing that latvia, which was hit by the crisis a year ago almost a year and a half ago has done, which is to drastically reduce government budget expenditures through so-called internal devaluation. i would urge the greek government to contact the latvian government to understand how such decisions can be taken. they have to be accepted, and they have been accepted in europe before. thank you.
thank you, mr president. mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your kind words. if any of us were to start a business today, it would be at least a micro-business in the beginning. we all know that the european union is in crisis today, unemployment. to tackle unemployment in europe, we need as many new businesses as possible, and we need as many new micro-enterprises as possible, so we should do everything we can to make it easier for micro-enterprises to operate. we have the opportunity to do this in practice, namely the commission's proposal to withdraw the reporting requirement for micro-enterprises, in particular to facilitate the operation of micro-enterprises, the creation of micro-enterprises, which would reduce the unemployment problem in europe. there are several reasons why this might be so. first, it must be understood, as i have already emphasised, that virtually all new enterprises are micro-enterprises at least at the outset. so if we reduce the requirements, we reduce the cost, and by reducing the cost, we make it easier to operate. secondly, the preparation of such a business report is in no way disproportionate to the benefit of the company itself or the state. if you have to go to the banks for a loan, the bank will ask for the current balance sheet, the current situation, not what it was six months ago or even a whole year ago. and thirdly, this is a concrete way of starting to achieve the commission's target of reducing the burden on smes by 25% by 2020. i therefore urge my colleagues not just to talk about supporting smes, but to take concrete action in making this decision to facilitate micro-enterprises. thank you!
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. minister! i'm not going to let you down. we all know that a drug addict is very dangerous because he will do anything to get to the next dose. in fact, we know that addiction of any kind is unwanted and preventable. in the european union, our economy is dependent, and increasingly so, on imported oil and gas. this is the situation we need to change. we need to increase investment in technologies that directly increase the use and use of solar, wind, water and biomass in the european union. and there are some strong arguments for why these technologies are the ones that are doing it. first, if we fail to invest in these technologies, our dependence on oil and gas will only increase and the situation will worsen, because there will be fewer and fewer of these resources in the world and their price will be higher and higher. secondly, by making such investments, we can also stimulate smes themselves, if we give them a certain advantage in applying for funds. and third, by investing in new technologies, we will overcome the current barriers to balancing the power of the grid with the fluctuating amounts of electricity generated by solar and wind. fellow citizens, it's time to act! we need to reduce our dependence on imported oil and gas sources, and we need to support investment in technologies that increase and facilitate the use of solar, wind, water and biomass energy resources. thank you for your attention.
thank you, madam chairman. we need to talk about solidarity not only in the case of greece, but also in the long-term policy of the european union, and i say this in the context of the political agreement that is expected to be reached in the european council on the objectives of the 2020 strategy. what concerns me about the commission's project is that, alongside the emphasis on social cohesion, there is no emphasis on economic cohesion in this strategy. and, if this is seen in the context of the financial perspective and the emphasis on 2014 to 2020, then in reality these components of economic cohesion are becoming 'very weak'. in other words, this means that by 2020 the leveling of economic disparities will be less dynamic and, conversely, it may be that in 2020 economic disparities in the european union will be higher than in 2010. and is that what we want, and is that a genuine sense of solidarity in the strategy of the european union? i would urge the council to be very serious about reaching this political agreement, and yet also to emphasise the objectives of economic cohesion. thank you.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to stress three points. firstly, concerning the structural funds – approximately 35% of the budget. we are doing only half as well as we did in 2000-2006. the current absorption rate in all funds is 14% and it was 25% before. so the question is how to take into account, how to deliver, how to fulfil this part of the budget. otherwise we will have a situation where the money is not used. on the other hand it could be a reserve. secondly, we have to reimburse some claims from the earlier period and the commission has planned five billion to provide this. however, in some countries which have not claimed more than six months’ reimbursement, i do not think that all the money will be asked for. there is also the question of whether this money will be used or not. i also have to say something about two very serious matters regarding roll-over budgets which go from year to year. in the agriculture budget in 2009 payments were eur 2 billion less for rural development than in 2008. now much more money is due to be paid out but the question is whether all projects will be fulfilled in 2010 or not. lastly, regarding the seventh framework programme. if we look at heading 1a concerning the seventh programme for r&d, payments in 2009 were significantly smaller than in 2008. so the question is whether delivery will be satisfactory. then we can plan the budget according to the situation. we have so many needs in other areas as well. so are those reserves or not?
mr president and mr commissioner, in december last year, in strasbourg, the then finance commissioner almunia said: 'if nothing significant happens, we will invite estonia to join the euro area next summer, starting in 2011.' this has changed, but not with estonia, but with the euro area. estonia is practically the only country in the european union that currently meets the maastricht criteria. what would be the signal if estonia were not accepted into the euro area under the rules? i think it will be a signal to the financial world that the eurozone is so bad that it cannot take on a small but fiscally responsible country. in other words, a sign will be put on the door of the euro area club: club closed. there's a major overhaul going on. but what will be the signal to the new countries of the european union, like my country, latvia, which is in a program with the international monetary fund to fix the exchange rate against the euro in order to introduce it, devaluing its economy with a double-digit gdp fall and extremely high unemployment? the signal will be why, with the national currency rate high, try to maximize the repayment of private debt issued by eu banks in e-credits, such as real estate? thank you.
thank you, chairman. on 8 may europe celebrates the victory over nazism, but, colleagues, i have unpleasant news: on 16 march this year, with the tacit consent of the authorities in latvia, veterans of the waffen ss marched with flags through riga and celebrated the founding day of the latvian ss legion. for 20 years we in the opposition have been unable to do anything about it. european leaders are pretending that nothing is happening. in latvia, ss units destroyed 130 villages and killed more than 150,000 people in latvia, belarus, poland and russia, but today they are remembered as heroes in latvia. the cowardly silence of the member states of the european union is a crime against the millions of people who died in the second world war. this is very important, thank you!
madam president, i shall also speak on the schengen information system. first of all, i would like to thank mr coelho for his excellent work, and i would like to stress that my group – from the very beginning – was quite cautious in accepting sis ii, due to many implications concerning data protection. now it seems that the long sis ii saga is far from being finished. we see time delays and cost overruns; we do not have any positive results. we do not even have a consensus about the evaluation of test results – as austria, germany and france do not see them as being successful. in our opinion the approach taken by the rapporteur is absolutely right. we have to be honest and admit that the current project might fail, and we have to discuss the alternatives. we should also carefully examine the reasons behind this failure; if we need to invest an additional eur 30 million, parliament should have all the information necessary for an informed consent. we must also maintain a sunset clause. we cannot continue investing money into a life-long project. of course certain flexibility should be there, but we must have clear criteria for evaluation and to react quickly if, again, something goes wrong.
in writing. there is a country in the european union where for almost 20 years about 20% of the population's human rights and fundamental freedoms have been violated. despite this, latvia was admitted to the european union in 2004. at the time of the eu accession negotiations, the latvian government promised then eu enlargement commissioner ginter verhoigen to solve the issue of non-citizens, but so far, despite the promises, the issue has not been resolved. as a result, some 340 000 persons with disabilities live in the eu. in latvia they are second class people, they cannot work in the public sector, they cannot hold public office even in districts where more than 60% of disabled people live. latvia has the city of daugavpils, where more than 90% of the population speaks russian. despite this, the city has banned the official use of the russian language and 30% of the population is not allowed to vote in municipal elections. the deputies of the municipal government elected in the russian-speaking city are forbidden to use their native language in meetings. funny, but until now the european commission has not found the necessary arguments and time to influence the latvian government to prevent discrimination on the basis of language. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. it must be clearly and unequivocally stated that there is a country in the eu where the rights of more than 25% of the population have been cynically violated for many years.
for the ecr group thank you, madam president. i would like to begin by perhaps thanking commissioner kallas for his endurance during those five days. perhaps we could consider that the first two or three days perhaps its action could have been more active, but overall i think the work on the part of the commissioners was done very correctly and the council decisions were also those which strongly promoted the measures taken under the single european sky on the adoption of the functional airspace block coordinator and the introduction of the european aviation safety agency measures, and many of these other measures were adopted quickly. at the same time, i think it is very important that, in understanding this pressure between business interests and political interests, representing the rights of passengers, the existing provision in the current legislation that the decision on the opening or closing of a given airspace is taken by the member states was retained. because if we were to imagine that, god forbid, an accident were to happen, then the commission or the relevant european institutions might have exceeded their rights and then there would be a very big question not of how much business is lost, but of who is responsible for the wrong decision that contributed to an accident in a particular airspace within the member states of the european union. and that would be a very different situation. so i think we have to draw conclusions from this rather critical situation. in the short term, several measures have been taken, as i have already mentioned, but of course, in the area of passenger rights, as already mentioned by mr elpadraja, several low-cost airlines have actually ignored passenger rights (and they are not from third country member states, they are from european union countries) and basically abandoned their passengers for five nights a day, and in reality they will be the winners they will save money, which remains an unresolved issue in the field of implementation, specifically in the area of passenger rights in the current european union. and another challenge in the long term is the lack of connectivity of several european countries with other modes of transport to the european heartland. thank you.
in writing. – the implementation of the eu 2020 strategy should emphasise economic cohesion, meaning that it is still crucial to reduce economic disparities between eu regions which lag behind and those which are more prosperous. i believe that the eu’s attention should be still largely paid to the principle of solidarity and instruments for levelling out the income disparities. the focus should be kept on the eu regions which have suffered the most from the economic and financial crisis, and the specific situation of each of these regions should be assessed and appropriate reaction to the corresponding challenges should be taken. in the europe 2020 strategy the agricultural sector is regarded like any other sector in our modern economy, and i welcome that. i am a strong supporter of a common agricultural policy which secures a level playing field for all member states. fair competition in the internal market is a key to the competitiveness of european agriculture in the global marketplace. there has to be a synergy between the 2020 strategy and reform of the cap post-2013 – both have to focus on promoting intelligent green growth.
thank you, chairman. i have a dog at home. my dog recently took a plate off the table and ate it. the question is, who is to blame for the dog eating the pancakes? is a dog guilty of following its nature? or is it my fault that i didn't put the food back in the refrigerator? global financial markets, the value of the euro is falling every day. who's to blame for that? many colleagues say that speculators are to blame, the market is to blame, for attacking the euro and devaluing it. i suggest, colleagues, that perhaps the market is not to blame, but rather that the market points to the root cause, to the root cause. the root of our current difficulties is simple: european countries are living beyond their means, spending far more than they can earn. the markets react to this in the same way that my dog reacted to the smell of the dish i left on the table. latvia went through a crisis a year and a half ago, similar to what we are experiencing in the rest of europe, namely, financial markets attacked our currency, there was no faith. instead of complaining about this situation, we have degraded the fundamentals, we have improved, we have raised our public finances. i believe that the first and foremost priority in the europe 2020 strategy, if we want it to matter, is that european countries should control their public spending so that revenue is commensurate with spending, which would restore confidence, mitigate the crisis and calm the financial markets. thank you.
mr president, i would like to say a few words about risks and possibilities. according to eu 2020, research and development is one of the flagships, and it is already planned in this budget that there should be 15.8% more commitments, which is plus eur 727 million. this year, only 1.6% more commitments were planned, and it looks as though we are making 10 times more commitments for research, but the only problem is, if we look at the payments, we will see that we cannot pay, because this year we are planning to make 13% fewer payments than in 2009. so the only thing i have to say at this moment is that we need to do our best – the commission and everybody together – to ensure that deliverance of the scientific research projects will be of the necessary high quality to fulfil the commitments to be paid out. until now, starting from 2007-11, this has not been the case, unfortunately. we could believe and work... (the president cut off the speaker.)
madam president, first of all i would like to thank baroness ludford for her excellent work on behalf of human rights. i am now speaking on behalf of the european free alliance meps, representing regions and minorities. i stress that the directive also applies to non-official languages of the european union. it means that the translation and interpretation referred to in the document should be guaranteed in regional and minority languages. for example, in those judicial districts in which the number of residents using regional or minority languages justifies it, the possibility of using such languages must be afforded. it is a pity that the european charter for regional or minority languages is not yet part of the acquis but i am sure that it will be one day, and that the use of such languages in criminal proceedings will be provided for to a greater extent, although by the eu alone.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. in football, as fans, we expect the law. we expect the team with the best discipline and the most self-respect to win the world cup. the same rules apply to the enlargement of the euro area. budgetary discipline and reforms must be matched by the adoption of the euro. during the global economic boom from 2005 to 2008, most european countries spent far more money than they could afford, living beyond their means. they have, in effect, laid the groundwork for today's euro crisis. meanwhile, while others were spending money, our friends in estonia were a little bit smarter, they were saving money. and thanks to these savings and their budget discipline, the severe economic downturn they also experienced in 2009 did not drive estonia to bankruptcy. instead, estonia meets all the maastricht criteria and should be admitted to the euro area, subject to strict discipline. the introduction of the euro in estonia will be good news in three different ways. first, it is a very important and powerful signal internationally that the euro area is continuing to expand despite all the difficulties. secondly, it is a positive signal to all the baltic states and the baltic region that the baltic states and the region are stable and capable of pursuing a pragmatic policy. and thirdly, it is a very important signal to latvia and other euro candidate countries that, if they meet the maastricht criteria, they will be crowned, rewarded with admission to the euro area. in europe today, the member states must get their budgets in order so that citizens and financial markets can once again trust the euro area. i think that estonia's accession to the euro area will serve as a very good example to other governments and societies that budgetary discipline is possible even in very difficult circumstances. thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, since the sis is an integral part of the schengen area, the issue at stake is extremely important. i myself come from a new member state. i remember how latvia wanted to join the area. in this regard, i very much welcome the accession of bulgaria and romania. nevertheless, i must point out that some shortcomings are detected. my group fully shares the position of the rapporteur that there should be a follow-up. in other words, parliament must be informed of how problems have been solved, taking our concerns about data protection into account. i would also hope that the unavailability of slots will not be a barrier to joining the sisone4all. finally, we fully join the rapporteur in his concerns about the new schengen evaluation mechanism. we believe that parliament should be able to exercise democratic scrutiny and i wholeheartedly welcome the statement of ms malmström that this will be the case.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your time. we know that in times of crisis, there are different solutions that are possible and necessary at the family level. for example, those families whose income is below their expenditure, that is, conversely whose income is below their expenditure, have to reduce their expenditure. but for families whose income has not declined, spending may not be necessary. the same applies to the member states. there is no one-size-fits-all solution to a crisis. for example, countries that are very badly affected by the crisis, such as the baltic states, greece, portugal, spain, ireland, i think they need to cut their budgetary expenditure. but for other member states that are not hit as hard by the crisis, like germany, poland, perhaps that's not the right solution, and those countries should rather focus on growth, because in europe we also need growth. in order to achieve solutions in europe that differ from country to country, a single central coordinator is needed. and of course, it is the european commission. we do not need a new red tape, we need to avoid competition between member states, we need to strengthen existing structures. let us empower the commission to be this economic coordinator for all of us. thank you.
in writing. the development of eu-russia relations is constrained by serious problems related to the respect for the basic principles of democracy and human rights in russia, the dependence of the judiciary and the mass media on the political executive, the repression of opposition representatives and the selective application of the law. at the same time, the emphasis in eu policy seems to be shifting from 'strategic partnerships based on shared values' to pragmatic, interest-based policies. such a policy requires, in particular, the firm and united support of all member states and its consistent implementation. i welcomed the 'modernisation of the eu-russia partnership' launched in rostov-on-don and the gradual progress in relations. however, i would particularly like to stress that this partnership must have a strong shared values, including the rule of law, democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. we must not forget the growing interdependence between russia and the eu in the energy sector and the serious problems caused by the energy supply disruptions of recent years. to address these problems, both eu legislation on security of gas supply and eu-russia cooperation based on the yet to be concluded but necessary eu-russia agreement on an energy security early warning mechanism are needed. i would like to stress that eu-russia cooperation in the field of energy must be based on the energy charter, which should be incorporated into the new eu-russia framework agreement in order to ensure transparent and mutually fair conditions for investment and equal access to the market.
in writing. i fully support my colleague's concerns about the political situation in nepal. we, the members of the european parliament, must constantly remind human rights abusers of their responsibilities to the international community. we must play an active role in the process of establishing democracy and political stability in nepal. but for our criticisms and recommendations to be heard, we need to set a good example and put things in order at home, in the european union. it is known that more than 20 percent of the population in latvia do not have the right to vote in elections. latvia has promised to solve this problem when it joined the eu, but has not yet done so. as a result, more than 350 000 latvians have been stateless for 20 years. most of these people live in latvia all their lives, but they do not have the right to vote, work in the public sector, use their native language in state institutions. i believe that our statements and our approaches to other countries will be much stronger when there is no cynical violation of the human rights of eu citizens on eu territory. don't teach your neighbor how to feed a cow when your own cow is hungry!
in writing. the current financial crisis has shown that the financial sector can have serious consequences if it is not adequately regulated. i strongly support the decision taken by the european council to introduce a tax and supervisory framework for financial institutions that would encourage the industry to limit its systemic risks. this will reduce the impact of speculation, make the industry more transparent and stable and prevent the occurrence of similar crises in the future. i also believe that financial institutions should share responsibility for the crisis and help to deal with its consequences. it is in the eu's interest to promote stability, transparency, trust and accountability in this area and eu member states must continue to make joint and concerted progress in this area. i welcome the european council's decision to open accession negotiations with iceland and hope that they will be constructive and successful. iceland has long been a member of the european free trade association and a stable partner country of the eu, and its accession is a step in the right direction. i also welcomed the decision to introduce the euro in estonia from the beginning of next year. estonia has been able to meet all the merger criteria despite the difficult economic situation in the world. the introduction of the euro will send a positive signal both to the countries working towards the introduction of the single currency in the near future and to the sustainability of the euro area as a whole.
in writing. i would like to draw the attention of my colleagues to the problem of national budgeting. the tax system cannot serve only to provide a revenue stream to the budget, but must regulate and optimise economic development and guarantee the social protection of the country's population. the tax system in latvia is focused on the only result to collect funds today in any way. it seems that the ministry of finance of the republic of latvia is not interested in what will happen tomorrow. the scheme operated by the latvian government could lead to a sharp decline in the number of taxpayers in the country after a year and a significant increase in the unemployment rate, resulting in huge social costs. this is all the result of illogical and unclear tax legislation. in some cases, the staff of the national tax authorities apply the 'dumb law' as they see fit. this has led to the bankruptcy of many companies and commercial entities. it is urgently necessary to set up a commission, a group of specialists, whose task would be to assess the latvian tax system. what is happening in latvia today in the tax sphere can be described in one word illegal! in essence, the state is depriving undertakings of their means of income.
in writing. this resolution calls for a shift from historical references to area as the basis for determining direct payments of aid in the next financial programming period. we therefore anticipate an adjustment period. it is necessary, but a full seven years would be too long a transition period. the delay in the introduction of the new arrangements may have a negative impact on the achievement of the important objective of the cap reform - targeted, fair, balanced, simple and transparent support. one of the arguments for keeping the cap budget at the 2013 level is the 'reasonable expectation of the new member states that cap support in them will be comparable to that in the old member states'. i am convinced that the cap can only be strong and truly common if it is geared to ensuring fair competition among all european farmers. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of developing a european strategy for the protection of the environment. i would like to emphasise in the resolution the political will to strengthen the position of primary producers in the food supply chain, so that primary producer organisations can become more efficient and can speak as equal partners with large retail and processing companies. i hope that the rural development element of the cap will be strengthened and that the rural development strategy will focus on rural communities, environmental improvement, agricultural modernisation and restructuring, cohesion, product sales and competitiveness, job preservation and creation in rural areas, as well as climate change, renewable energy and biodiversity.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. lying is known to be wrong. it is well-known that breaking a promise is a form of cheating. so six years ago, when latvia was negotiating its accession to the european union, the latvian government promised the eu enlargement commissioner that it would solve the issue of non-immigrants. this question is still unresolved. latvia has long been a member of the eu, but three hundred thousand european citizens living in latvia today remain without status. i think lying at the eu level is becoming fashionable. maybe i was wrong. if i'm lying, then we have to solve this problem. it's very important. thank you for your attention.
in writing. - the eu abstained from the vote on the immunity of mr viktor uspaskich because i do not consider immunity to be 'a change of money'. immunity is either there or it's not! immunity enables a member to work and protects him from possible pressure. i believe that immunity can only be waived by reference to the decision of the european court of justice. i am not sure that the lithuanian court was fair, because the government of the republic of lithuania and the president of lithuania have repeatedly declared the high level of corruption in lithuania. what guarantee is there that the decision was taken objectively? if we decide today to waive the immunity of viktor uspaskich, then the concept of immunity must be removed from the rules of procedure of the european parliament.
in writing. - i agree with all the points made in the report by mr josé bové, the rapporteur. the european commission's unproductive attitude towards farmers, its desire to continually increase taxes on production and supply, marketing and storage, may lead to a reduction of the share of agricultural production produced in europe by 30-50% compared to the current level. europeans will then be totally dependent on supplies from china, india, south america and russia, where the cost-effectiveness of the sector is much lower. mr bové's report makes it clear to the european commission that meps will not allow mr barroso and his commissioners to put pressure on farmers and take away their income for the benefit of eu public finances. we must 'go hand in hand' with those who want to make life difficult or complicate the lives of farmers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls for society to pay special attention to older women. their pensions are usually considerably lower than those of men. women tend to live longer than men and are lonely in their old age. few politicians think about the fact that, outside of the work that earns a pension, virtually every woman has worked in the family, raised children, grandchildren, and her work in this area of life is much greater than the contribution of men. given the physical weakness of women, special attention should be paid to older single women. it is our duty to start a debate on this issue, to bring public attention to the unfair and sometimes indifferent treatment of the 'weaker sex'. i voted for the need to pay attention to our mothers and grandmothers - those who have devoted their lives to their children and grandchildren. we mustn't leave them alone, we mustn't forget about them!
in writing. - i voted in favour of a european parliament resolution on more effective communication of information to the public about the european union. latvians do not differentiate between the eu council, the european commission and the european parliament. 99% of latvians do not understand the function and role of the european union institutions. we need to explain to every eu citizen what the eu is about. if we do not do so soon, turnout in the european elections will be minimal and citizens will have a distrustful attitude towards decisions and laws made by the eu institutions. i voted for greater attention to be paid to the eu's communication policy, i.e. to maximising the information of the public on how and for what purposes the eu budget is spent. if we can take the best possible steps in this direction, we may be able to gain additional public trust, and then the eu citizens will be more cautious in their approach to the eu elections. in this case, the composition of the european parliament would be much more professional.
in writing. too much has been said and written about freedom of speech and freedom of the press. a majority of meps support democratic values and the right for everyone to speak out publicly about the problems and the people who cause them. but there are times when journalists, in pursuit of a sensation, forget about professional ethics. there are cases where a journalist is willing to engage in defamation and to meddle harshly in the personal lives of strangers for a fee. we need to discuss not only cases of 'oppression' in the press, but also the responsibility of each person for defamation and dishonor. the russian people have a saying: "the only thing more terrible than death is the loss of honor". for many people, it is still the foundation of their lives. so i propose the following approach to the notion of a journalist: 1) to call journalists only those who have not burdened this high office with paid, untrue materials from third parties, 2) to establish a definition of those people who are engaged in black pr, 3) to emphasize that freedom of speech is not freedom to defame and discredit, 4) journalists must correspond to their high office of representatives of the 'cheated power'. likewise, all the resolutions and all the declarations on freedom of the press are just a farce.
in writing. - i fully agree with the rapporteur, mr csaba öry, and therefore supported this legislative resolution. i was particularly struck by the council's 12th amendment, which recognises the importance of fighting measures that slow down economic growth, including bureaucratic obstacles and high taxes. i do not think that the european parliament has ever before spoken about bureaucratic obstacles and high taxes. few people realize that irrational and illogical taxes can make any economic system ineffective. today, in a country like latvia, the tax system has led to a crisis. the bureaucratic and unwieldy tax system has cost latvia more than eur 10 billion. i supported this legislative resolution in the hope that it would launch a major effort to optimise taxation within the eu.
in writing. - i voted for the joint resolution on the human rights situation in iran because i fully support its essence. the dictatorship of ahmadinejad has led to the state system and state power in iran being in a state of the middle ages. we must remind the iranian regime that the international human rights convention is not a mere sound. i voted for this resolution because the islamists, the fanatics, don't want to understand what international law is. we must get the death penalty abolished in iran and rescue sakineh mohammadi and zahra bahrami from the hands of religious terrorists who have turned terrorism against their own people into law.
the author. - mr president, mr minister, i would like to thank you for your kind words. you've got the question, today i'm going to talk about the essence of the question. 200 m long helicopter base ship capable of accommodating 16 heavy helicopters, 40 tanks, 900 troops, landing craft and equipped with a military hospital. france wants to sell four such aggressive warships to russia without consulting the other eu member states. i would remind you that russia attacked its neighbour georgia a year and a half ago and has still not complied with the peace agreement reached by the french president. russia also conducted war games on the estonian border last autumn for the invasion of the baltic states. i want to ask you all one question. what is the european union and why do we need it? in the spring, when the financial crisis hit greece very hard, europe had a choice to help or to let greece fall. in solidarity, the european countries decided to help greece because of a common understanding among the member states that the deterioration of the financial situation in greece would be reflected in the other member states of the european union. the outer security zone is no exception. we have also committed ourselves to solidarity in this area in the treaties. many eu member states have serious concerns about where and for what purposes russia would deploy and use such aggressive warships. jobs in france are important, but they cannot be created at the expense of the security of other eu member states. i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to prevent any arms sales to third countries until the matter has first been discussed in the council and there is full confidence that such a transaction would improve rather than worsen the security situation throughout the european union. thank you for your attention.
thank you, chairman. i am happy to support the report in general, because if the european parliament and the european union as such are fighting for the respect of human rights and citizens' rights outside the european union, it is all the more important for us. i think there is often a lack of control over how these european-wide human rights instruments are also applied in practice. i will just make one point. on 2 october, the latvian parliamentary elections will be held, of which i am a member. no more than ... shall be eligible to vote in the elections to the european parliament. (head of the sitting turns off the microphone because the speaker's time is up)
in writing. the european union's strength lies in its unity. the european union is the world's leading region, which has been acting on certain principles for more than 50 years. we are strong because we have been united and united. the larger member states of the community have taken the interests of the smaller ones into account, while the economically stronger countries have supported the economically weaker ones. we must not compromise these principles in the future. the french government's intention to sell mistral warships to the russian federation, which attacked eu and nato partner georgia two years ago, has sparked outrage in several member states. i do not wish to question france's right to make such a transaction, but i do call on france to respect the eu and nato principles on which it has acted in the past and, i am sure, will act in the future. this transaction has raised concerns among france's nato and eu partners, who have always respected the principles of mutual solidarity. in the short term, this deal would be financially successful, but in the long term it could undermine european security and worsen relations between the community's member states, thus making us weaker. the views of partners must not be ignored, especially on a matter as important as the military security of eu member states. we must not allow other countries to undermine our unity with such deals. let us remember that our closest friends and allies are not to be found in the east, but within our own communities. let us continue to apply the principles that we have considered so far. if we stand together, we are strong!
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution proposed by the group of the european people's party because i believe that a comprehensive common european strategy on roma issues, aimed at preventing social and economic exclusion of roma, needs to be adopted and implemented. minority issues in europe are complex and sensitive, and are often used to achieve narrow political goals. i am opposed to political manipulations which do not solve the root of the problem but make it difficult for minorities to integrate. promoting roma social inclusion requires adequate union funding and cooperation between member states to implement it. the eu already has a number of instruments at its disposal to tackle roma exclusion, including the european social fund. they will also be complemented by the possibility to use up to 2% of the total european regional development fund (erdf) funding for housing expenditure for marginalised communities. it is therefore important to ensure that practical action is taken now to integrate roma in the member states of their nationality in the first place. at the same time, of course, freedom of movement within the union must be guaranteed and, when eu citizens are expelled from a member state, each case must be examined individually and the expulsion must be based on a proper judicial decision.
in writing. - i fully support this resolution. i hope that the european parliament's declaration will be followed up. it is necessary to respond swiftly and promptly to any cases of discrimination against older people. it is necessary to develop a legally binding directive for national governments to provide for legal liability for actions aimed at reducing pensions and other state obligations in respect of older persons. in 2009, in my country, latvia, the government cut pensions to "fix the hole" in the budget, thereby destroying people's hopes for social stability and justice. i voted for this declaration in the hope that such abuses and abuses of power will never happen again.
in writing. - the eu voted for the resolution. the resolution mentions that the jordan river is in a catastrophic state today. the dead sea is sinking at a rate of about a foot a year. coastal countries, especially syria and jordan, exploit the river's resources without investing in the development of wastewater treatment plants and drinking water treatment plants. if the eu does not step up pressure on all water users in the near future, environmental disaster is imminent. in this respect, this resolution is a very timely signal to the governments of syria, jordan and israel. it is necessary to make all the governments of the middle east understand that the eu is not a fire engine that can solve their problems. we need to force the governments of syria, jordan and israel to think about the future. we must help them plan their actions in this direction, but in no case should we finance those who recklessly exploit natural resources for their own ends.
the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. - thank you, mr president. this is a very important report and i am pleased that parliament's resolution reflects the concerns of member states which are isolated in the energy sector, as they are heavily dependent on supplies from third countries and lack infrastructure connections with other member states of the european union. i hope that the adoption of this regulation will allow the common energy policy projects to develop further. as rapporteur for the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i am pleased to note several points where parliament has improved this proposal. first, a protected pool of consumers, guaranteed gas supplies under extreme conditions, is specified and clearly defined; second, the principle of european solidarity is prevented, reinforced and concretised, with emphasis on cooperation between regions and increased powers and responsibilities of the commission; and, finally, market instruments are clearly prioritised over off-market measures in order to resolve supply disruptions. they are used only in cases where the market cannot ensure supply to protected consumers. and finally, i would like to thank mr. quadra-vidal for his excellent cooperation.
the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the information available to it. we're all addicted to it. we are dependent in europe on energy supplies from third countries. we are particularly dependent on the gas sector, and of course a great deal of that dependence is on one supplier country, russia. and we know that russia as a supplying country can be problematic. for example, in january 2009, a dispute between russia and ukraine left several european union member states without natural gas. what is the solution? the solution is, of course, twofold: first, as several speakers have mentioned, diversification of supply, and secondly, the creation of an internal market, with interconnections. it is when we are actually talking about a common european energy policy, it is the need to create a functioning internal market to protect us. what's the problem? the problem is that there are now a number of countries and regions in europe that are completely isolated from the rest of the european union. the baltic states in particular are 100% isolated and 100% dependent on russian gas supplies. and this has resulted in, for example, that consumers in the baltic countries today pay 30 percent more for natural gas than the same consumers in germany. i therefore fully believe that this regulation, which is the right direction that the commission has taken and which mr vidal-quadras has brought to an end in parliament, is the right direction but we must bring it to an end, we must put an end to the infrastructure investments and the isolation of the various member states so that we can have a common market, so that we can have the preconditions for a free internal market that will ensure the security of gas supplies. thank you!
in writing. it is clear that the european union should not be dependent on the president of ukraine or belarus who has his feet on the ground. it is clear that the eu should not be dependent on surplus-intermediary schemes that seek to profit from speculation and manipulation in gas supply. it is clear that gas supplies cannot become a political instrument to address narrow national interests. but what about the fact that natural gas costs three times as much in latvia as in germany? it turns out that the eu member states - latvia and germany - have different opportunities to develop their national economies. the fact that the republic of latvia is experiencing a deep crisis and that its gdp and per capita income are ten times lower than in germany raises the question of whether all eu member states have the same conditions for development. there is an urgent need to resolve this issue at least as regards the common gas price for all eu member states. the combination of the words 'united europe' is becoming questionable.
in writing. − this is a very important initiative, which is why i supported it. i hope that in the design of the project, consideration will be given to situations where the situation has not led to an accident or disaster. by that i mean investigating out-of-state situations where passengers are put at risk by the human factor. i myself became an eyewitness to one of these cases when in january 2010, an airbaltic plane, which i was on board, attempted to take off from riga airport 3 times, and after the third time the plane was sent for "further inspection". the regulation needs to provide a mechanism to allow passengers to submit complaints in cases where airlines want to hide aircraft breakdowns or out-of-state situations.
in writing. − the eu voted for this resolution because the european union should not be dependent on the mood of the leaders of the transit countries, ukraine and belarus. i am convinced that by this vote we are all sending a clear signal to those who want to extract additional revenue from the transit of hydrocarbons by speculation and blackmail. i would also like to see the question of a common oil price for all eu member states considered in the context of this regulation. today, germany receives gas at three times the price of latvia.
in writing. - i would like the turkish government to see this resolution as a kind of advance, which is why i voted for the 'yes' vote. if turkey does not cooperate with eu bodies on cyprus and armenia in the future, i will consistently vote against any relaxation for turkey. it is not normal that the turkish government does not even acknowledge the armenian genocide that took place at the beginning of the last century, when millions of innocent people were killed. the turkish blockade of armenia today is a bad signal for the european union. the advance has been paid, now we wait for positive changes from the turkish side.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i consider the issue of preventing man-made disasters to be of the utmost importance. funding for programmes aimed at preserving natural resources in europe needs to be substantially increased. forests, lakes, rivers - everything has become a business. without this resolution, it is necessary to develop a common eu framework and to strictly limit the attitude of indifferent consumers towards natural resources. in my hometown of latgale, i encountered this attitude, where the forests are being destroyed in a barbaric way. the latvian government is torpedoing eu projects aimed at preserving lakes and rivers. latvian legislation allows the destruction of rare fish species, and no one is held responsible for it. i voted for the "par" in the hope that this signal from the eu would reach the latvian government.
in writing. − we need to be involved in a process to train developing countries to generate their own national gdp and thus to promote the economic development of these countries. and with that, we can stop the migration of entire ethnic groups into europe. it is important to make the people of developing countries understand that they need to build their homeland, not look for a paradise in europe. we need to help our brothers in developing countries to become independent and self-sufficient. i believe that we need to share our knowledge and experience, and that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
madam president, i want to say three things. if we are talking about the next financial framework, it is very necessary to understand how we structure the added value, because if you do not analyse fulfilment of the budget in this financial perspective, we will not get a good result in the next one. there are three things. number one. we have to look at the implementation of structural funds because up to now we have a system in structural funds money which is not fulfilled budget. this money is used for other needs. this is not a good planning system and it will not help us to create the next structural system for the next financial perspective. number two is things such as, for example, taking the money and payments from agriculture for rural development in 2009, spending it on a recovery plan and then trying now to pay this debt back. at the very end i want to say only one thing. an analysis made by dg regio for the structural funds even shows that in some cases the added value for using structural funds is negative, and the same analysis has also been made by agricultural people. it has to be looked at afterwards – is what we are giving now in this year 2007-2013 realistically added value, given the money in the system?
in writing. i welcomed the inclusion of the eastern partnership in the conclusions of the european council as one of the strategic lines of action of the common foreign policy. i support the objective of the european economic governance initiative to strengthen the functioning of the stability and growth pact and to extend the monitoring of macroeconomic imbalances. it is important to provide for a stronger mechanism of sanctions for member states that do not comply with the requirements of the stability and growth pact, or that do not comply with the budget deficit or increase their external debt disproportionately. the simultaneous use of the european union budget for sanctions is only possible if it includes all types of budgetary expenditure, not just, for example, european funds. it is important to develop clear and understandable principles and criteria for the application of the sanction mechanism.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the rap, because i believe that there is a need to develop a common vat procedure. i hope that the unification of the vat application procedure will lead in the future to the fact that the vat rate will depend on the country's gdp generator. today, latvia's high vat is hampering economic development, leading to a further deepening of the crisis and a general plunge of the population into poverty. the vat complex increases all taxes that hinder the development of business and the economy as a whole. i hope that the development of a logical and clear vat application procedure will have a positive impact on eu fiscal policy as a whole.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution because i believe that information should be available to citizens in their mother tongue. more than 40 percent of the population of latvia speak russian as their mother tongue. despite this fact, the medicines sold in latvia do not have a russian description. in my country there are many elderly people who do not know latvian at all, but the authorities of the republic of latvia deliberately do not allow the use of russian even in the instructions for medicines. i supported this resolution in the hope that it would be incorporated in the future in the legislative package.
in writing. − the eu voted in favour of this resolution because it considers that the european union has entered a crisis situation largely because of the lack of adequate supervision of securities, banking assets and pension funds. we need not only to monitor financial markets and identify risks, but also to establish mechanisms to prevent financial speculation and fraudulent financial transactions. only then will the european union be able to react in a timely manner to the situation in individual countries, and i am thinking here of latvia, greece and hungary, where the situation was close to default. it is also necessary to identify the names of those who have provided false information at eu level, concealing the true internal situation of individual eu countries.
thank you, chairman. i don't think the united states administration, which spends billions every day on war, needs the money. not money, but access to new data, complementary to what was and is available through the swift programme information about our citizens. on the one hand, on the other hand, i feel a desire on the part of the united states administration and congress to show who is the master of this bilateral relationship. i have personal experience: the adviser to the united states ambassador to latvia at the time when the swift programme was being discussed here in the european parliament, made sure to invite me, a member of the european union, a member of the european parliament, to speak to him and to impress me on how i should vote. i have a right to think it's not about the money. and latvia has a large population with relatives living in the united states. they're my constituents, too. they're not gonna be happy if we're not here for our own interests. thank you.
mr president, the resolution is strategically very well-written. we must support it. however, we have to find where the problems are at present. i would point out to the commissioner that, as at 1 september, the absorption rate for the social fund was just 18%, which is half as much – twice as bad – as in the previous period. 17 member states are at less than 18%. some of them are stuck at 10% or 11% absorption when it comes to the social fund. there is no pattern here: the countries with the biggest deficit are not showing the worst absorption rates. but the fact is that some countries were stuck at 10% throughout 2010. the commission has to clarify the situation. if one looks at the other funds – the regional fund and the cohesion fund – the situation is no better. the overall absorption rate is 17.95%. also, 60% of member states have a lower absorption than this. for some of them the figure is three times less. the council has cut the funding under the draft budget for 2011 to less than eur 1000 million, because the member states have no clear idea about fulfilling their obligations. we in the committee on budgets supported the committee on regional development in its request to restore the funding to the draft budget. the question is whether it will be possible for this money to be absorbed. if it cannot, there is no sense talking about a bright future.
thank you, mr president. mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i think that the draft prepared by danutas hubneres, former commissioner for regional policy, is also balanced and actually good. i understand that we all know that the crisis has created a challenge for many net contributors, and with it the pressure to make the next financial perspective, of course, less cash-intensive, and in this case this very large item, cohesion policy, is also extremely important. but it is important for all of us to be clear, to be a little more conservative and not to lose sight of two fundamental aspects of cohesion policy: firstly, that it is an independent policy whose main objective is and remains to equalise the development of the less developed regions with that of the rest of the european union, and secondly, that gdp per capita by purchaser parity is nevertheless the main criterion. and all the other discussions (how to better integrate cohesion policy to achieve the european union's 2020 targets) - if we lose these first criteria, we will not achieve anything with the eu 2020 in the context of cohesion policy. thank you.
in writing. i am grateful to mrs danuta maria hübner for her responsible work. all the issues raised in the resolution are of relevance to latvia. unfortunately, latvia is represented as one region in the cohesion policy programme. although, for example, poland is made up of 16 regions. in this context, latvia is committing serious irregularities in the use of eu structural funds. i received many signals that officials from the ministry of economy and the ministry of regional development and local government of latvia are not promoting the use of eu funds, but are hindering this process by demanding from ordinary latvian citizens to pay them illegal wages. the fact that latvia is seen as one region also does not facilitate the use of funds. this allows politically engaged forces to 'scramble' the projects of municipalities where their political parties are not represented. they, in turn, give the green light to those who are included in the narrow corrupt circle. this does not allow a region like latgale to fully benefit from the resources allocated to cohesion policy. there is an urgent need to carry out a general audit of the use and effectiveness of eu structural funds in latvia. i am prepared to take an active part in this examination.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the final version of the report by mrs tanja fajon. in this context, i would like to make it clear that i am against the visa-free regime for kosovo citizens, because i believe that it is necessary to coordinate this issue with the serbian side. i fully support the un security council's position that kosovo's independence is not recognized. i also believe that until serbia recognises kosovo's independence, we have no right to take any steps towards even indirect recognition of that region. as is well known, many eu member states have not recognised kosovo's independence. i believe we need to take a more deliberate approach to this issue.
in writing. − more than 500 people have recently been the victims of mass gang rape in the democratic republic of congo. he was also the commander of the military police of the so-called 'lugansk people's republic'. i fully support this resolution of the european parliament. at the same time, i would like to add that, given that the un peacekeeping camps were located in the vicinity of the city where the sexual assaults took place, and yet the un did not cover up this shocking event, it is necessary to assess the actions of the un base in the eastern drc. we need to know the names of the un commanders responsible. they also want to know if the un base's conscripts and officers know what they're being sent there to do. i think they don't know, and that's why their silence has led to mass crime and contempt for international law. it is a crime for the un not to carry out its direct work duties!
in writing. - i supported this resolution because i consider the death penalty to be an easy punishment for those who have committed serious crimes against humanity. i am not sure that latvia, as an eu member state, will implement this resolution, because it has already had a negative experience. the republic of latvia has still not complied with paragraph 74 of the european parliament resolution of 11 march 2004 on the situation of persons with disabilities in latvia. more than 330 000 people in latvia still do not have a status. this means that one of the eu member states superficially perceives the views of the european parliament and the european community as a whole. the european commission and the european parliament, on the other hand, pretend that everything is fine. it's a different position. this shows that there is a double standard in the european union. the european union is concerned about human rights violations in the congo, but it sees human rights violations in the eu as a normal phenomenon!
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution. i believe that the responsibility of oil companies should be increased so that the insurance and reserve fund for the event of an accident can easily cover all the costs of the disaster and all the possible environmental damage. there is also a need for a 100% bank guarantee, and for stricter licensing of industries in the field of oil exploration and production.
in writing. - i would like to express my sincere respect to mrs danuta maria hübner and to thank her for this resolution, which she has prepared on behalf of the committee on regional development. the resolution raises the very timely question of the use of eu funds for regional development and the conditions for a more flexible use of these funds, taking into account the geographical location of countries and their key economic performance indicators. unfortunately, in my country, latvia, the funds for the implementation of cohesion policy are being used very inefficiently. the corruption of officials in the ministry of economy and the ministry of regional development and local government in latvia is practically 'putting a brake' on both citizens' initiative and any steps towards the efficient use of eu financial resources. in the absence of information campaigns on cohesion funds, latvians are virtually unaware of the opportunities offered by the eu. i voted for this resolution to help some latvian ministers and officials understand that it is time to start working for the eu and, of course, for latvia. missing the opportunity to rebuild latvia is a crime against future generations.
in writing. − in latvia, the european social fund funds became the subject of political and economic speculation. some corrupt officials profit from funds set aside for training and retraining. today's training centers and other unlicensed institutions simply "spoil" money for training the unemployed and other needy, and the qualifications of the teachers are often below the required level. some 'educational institutions' charge higher tuition fees than the latvian state university. the european social fund is paying for this mess. i supported this resolution, and was particularly struck by paragraph 15 of it, in which the european parliament 'calls on the commission to strengthen the potential of the structural funds by simplifying, making more flexible and improving procedures to help member states optimise social and employment policy opportunities and create sustainable growth'. i voted for the "par" in the hope that it would provide a monitoring mechanism that would be very strict against dishonest political employees.
in writing. - i fully endorsed the report by mr brian simpson. i agree that maritime transport statistics require data on the type of goods. such statistics will enable exporters and importers to find the optimal schemes for freight transport. this means that the cost of goods to european citizens will be reduced and exporters will be able to price more efficiently goods supplied from third countries. such statistics will help avoid unforeseen costs and stimulate both internal and external trade. in addition, i introduced this type of statistics for air transport.
in writing. − it is very important not to stop the unemployment process from going its own way. it is crucial that citizens feel supported in this area by both national governments and the eu as a whole. although i voted in favour, i remained unclear about the distribution of the aid. why will the netherlands be paid around €3,000 per employee laid off, spain €1,000 and denmark €7,000? is retraining and requalification in denmark 7 times more expensive than in spain? despite this very embarrassing question for the rapporteur, mrs barbara matera, i am forced to agree that the granting of this financial aid is a necessary and timely measure. it is a pity that the latvian government did not participate and did not submit an application this time. latvia has 180,000 unemployed today!
in writing. − cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries is first and foremost about fair quotas for all actors in the process. the same legal basis, which will apply to all participants, must be logical. no one can have exclusive rights to the atlantic fisheries. i voted 'yes' in the hope that the legal rules will provide for equal opportunities and equal liability for breaches of the fishing rules, without favouritism or exclusion, as is often the case when legislation is drawn up to serve the interests of the large eu fleets.
in writing. − unfortunately, the disproportionate pay gap between women and men is particularly pronounced during a crisis. it is necessary to broaden the subject of discussion considerably and then to put forward specific proposals for the regulation of employment relations for working women. social guarantees need to be introduced in addition, in particular for single mothers, women with disabilities, women in heavy industry. it is the duty of society to send a clear signal to employers that it is unacceptable to take advantage of the possibility of reducing pay or working hours by gender. a separate eu fund is needed to support single mothers in cases where they lose their jobs and livelihoods. in this respect, the initiative of the rapporteur, mrs britta thomsen, is very timely. i fully support this report as the beginning of a new approach to tackling the employment problems of women.
in writing. in times of economic crisis, we need to reform to improve the business environment, as this is the best way to stimulate the economy in the most direct way, thus creating new jobs. the directive on the prevention of late payment in commercial transactions is one of the most positive examples of this kind. member states have a practice of paying late for services or goods received. moreover, in a number of cases, this is done by public authorities, which theoretically should not have any problems with invoicing. this is a major obstacle to the work of companies and their development. this practice must be stopped. the biggest beneficiaries of this directive will not only be companies operating within the borders of one member state, but in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, which will be able to export goods and services to other member states without having to wait for months to be paid. all european consumers, in turn, will benefit from the increased competition and supply that the new rules will bring. the directive is a significant step towards improving the payment culture in europe. with decisions like these, we are making europe an attractive place for investors and our businesses. we will also need to take bold decisions in the future to promote progress.
thank you, mr president, mr president of the commission (who left the chamber)! first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, my fellow shadow rapporteurs and mr w. klintz, the chairman of the committee, for the compromise that we were able to reach in the end. i shall only mention two positions in the report which do not satisfy me, and they will not be those of germany or france. first, aggressive crossborder investment has led to a tenfold increase in private household debt and business debt in many new member states since 2004. in addition, the vast majority of these loans were taken out with all the currency risk to the borrowers, which in turn means that the policies of these governments have little room for manoeuvre in macroeconomic terms other than to cut budget expenditure and to impose taxes. at the same time, households are left with the sole responsibility of paying back credit debt in euro. unfortunately, the report makes very little mention of this problem. and the second point, linked to the first, is that, let us imagine that such a new member state, which at gdp level has fallen back to the level before joining the european union, before 2004, with only 10 times more private debt and five times more public debt, can understand from this report that cohesion policy can also be changed. it has been changed so that the main criterion is not gdp per capita but the management of the crisis in a specific territory, which can lead to very significant political consequences. thank you.
mr president, commissioner, members of the council! in the last two years, a great many people in the european union have suffered, as a direct result of the crisis. the people of my country, latvia, have also suffered. 20% decline in economic turnover, as rapid as the rise in unemployment. the people of my country have understood that in such an emergency situation, emergency solutions must be adopted. what have they been? to get our public finances in order, the citizens of my country, the latvians, have patiently endured more than 30% pay cuts and at the same time tax increases. as a result, our financial stability has been established in latvia. where's my shit? i am appalled to read today that germany and france are not seeking to strengthen financial supervision in the european union, but are in fact weakening it. would that mean that the work of my people would be in vain? we cannot allow, ladies and gentlemen, that some large member states want to continue to live irresponsibly. we must back the commission's proposal for a strong financial surveillance in europe. thank you for your attention.
in writing. the first and most important thing in the situation is to establish the diagnosis and the reasons that led to the crisis. the impact of the crisis on the eu's citizens varied from one eu country to another. it is necessary to clearly record the errors, malpractices and unprofessionalism of national governments in order to prevent further deterioration of the situation of the population. the latvian government, for example, has already borrowed from international financial institutions an amount that is twice the annual budget of the country. the latvian government takes decisions every day that are unfavourable to the people in terms of the tax system and fiscal policy in general, which lead to the liquidation of companies and the departure of latvian entrepreneurs abroad. the latvian government is constantly trying to amend the pension law to reduce the cost to pensioners. it leads to social explosion and global injustice. we need to send a clear signal to national governments that cutting social spending and pension payments in a crisis is a crime against the people. i am convinced that the vulnerable, the lowly, the underprivileged, should not be held responsible for the mistakes of government.
in writing. - i fully agree with mr paulo rangel's report. until now, the european commission has in many cases ignored the european parliament's resolutions. i think that's unacceptable. for example, the european parliament resolution of 11 march 2004 in which the european parliament recommends that the republic of latvia grant the right to vote in municipal elections to minors and simplify naturalization for older persons has not been implemented to date. i wonder why the responsible european commissioners have not yet asked the latvian government questions. why is the european parliament resolution ignored? it is possible that with the signing of a new agreement on relations between the european parliament and the commission, this kind of inaction on the part of the commission will be duly assessed by the european parliament and that the next time the european commission will not include people who do not do their job well.
in writing. - mr paulo rengel proposes very important amendments to the rules of procedure of the european parliament. it is possible that it is precisely these clarifications in the european parliament's rules of procedure that will ensure that the problems under debate are resolved more quickly. in particular, we would like to see the european parliament's decisions and recommendations implemented in the eu member states. only when we get our own house in order will the eu's recommendations to third countries have much greater power. for example, the recommendations of the european parliament's resolution of 11 march 2004 on the situation of persons with disabilities in latvia have still not been implemented. i hope that the revised european parliament's rules of procedure will help the eu institutions to clarify the violations of fundamental human rights in latvia.
in writing. - i voted in favour of extending the minimum period of maternity leave to 18 weeks, but against extending it to 20 weeks. i fully understand the need to provide a suitable environment for new mothers. however, in the long term, an extension of compulsory leave to 20 weeks would be disadvantageous for young women who intend to start a family and a professional career. moreover, member states simply cannot today cover the additional costs in their budgets. the employers object to the minimum 20 weeks of maternity leave as it would create additional costs that cannot be covered in the current economic situation. there is therefore a risk that many employers may simply not hire young women. we already see that young people are having difficulty finding work, but extending maternity leave will further reduce women's ability to compete with men in the labour market. i think we can't let that happen and we have to think long term. the introduction of 20 weeks of maternity leave would mean billions of euro in budgetary costs across europe. these are costs that today neither national governments nor taxpayers can afford. of course, we will be criticised by some sections of society, but we are here to work and to make the best possible decisions in the interests of all european citizens.
in writing. - i consider mr diogo feio's report to be the most professional report of the last three months. all the issues and solutions presented in the report are very timely. lack of information, distortion of the data and sometimes even lies by eu governments have led to disastrous results. greece, latvia, and hungary, fearfully hiding their shaky budgets, questioned the credibility of the euro. the european commission and the european parliament must react swiftly and firmly to any distortion of facts and concealment of the truth. measures need to be developed against the rogue politicians who have brought the eu into crisis. to overcome the difficult economic situation, it is necessary to develop not only control and statistical rules but also plans for overcoming the crisis. this means, firstly, clear criteria for fiscal policy, deadlines and guarantees for taxpayers. it must also be ensured that this tax legislation is not changed every day on the investor's signal. unfortunately, today the latvian government changes the rules depending on the mood of the imf and the european bank officials. i hope that mr diogo feio's report will send a signal to the european commission that it is time to get to work.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, we welcome the progress made by the republic of moldova and hope that the forthcoming electoral process can further consolidate the democratic institutions and ensure respect for the rule of law and of human rights in moldova. we know that there is broad support for moldova’s future eu membership – not nato membership – within moldovan society. in spite of their different political platforms, all parties represented in the moldovan parliament declare that they are for european cooperation and integration as well. but, taking into account my own country of latvia’s experience of eu membership, i have tried to explain during my conversations with moldovan politicians that eu membership cannot be an end in itself. it is very important to step up efforts to implement deep and consistent economic and judicial reforms, notably through the fight against corruption. moldovan society is multi-ethnic and multi-linguistic; moreover, essential differences exist in relation to the assessment of historical events. it is therefore quite dangerous to create additional dividing lines within moldovan society. in my opinion, a recent decree establishing 28 june as soviet occupation day, which triggered a negative reaction on the part of a large number of moldovan residents, did not consolidate society but had just the opposite effect. moldovan society also varies according to the nationality held by its residents. the large proportion of residents having dual citizenship creates additional differences in respect of rights as well, and so we have to make every effort to abolish these differences and to provide a visa-free regime for all moldovans.
in writing. − in general, all five european parliament reports on financial instruments have focused on the need to ensure greater control over financial instruments for development and human rights cooperation and cooperation with industrialised countries. given the excessive bureaucratization and the not always rational use of eu possibilities, such rules can act as a catalyst and accelerate the processes identified in the reports. in the case of a given case, meps become participants in the stabilisation and correction process by being able to observe and control the allocation processes.
in writing. − the european union must continue an active dialogue with ukraine on its accession to our community, even though we understand that it will not become a member state in the coming years. it is in all our interests to see ukraine as an economically developed and politically stable country whose closest partners are sought in the west. we understand that this will not be easy to achieve, as the country needs to stabilise its financial situation and implement numerous reforms, but it can be done and the eu should provide support in this work. it is necessary to continue constructive work on the eu-ukraine association agreement and to activate work on the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement. ukraine is located in a very important geographical location, which is also important for the gas supply to the eu, and therefore it is necessary to support the modernisation of the ukrainian gas transit system in order to reduce the risk of gas supply disruptions to the eu countries, as has occurred in the recent past. at the same time, we cannot turn a blind eye to the violations of democracy that have become more serious since the accession of viktor yanukovych to the presidency. it is our duty to point out these violations and to strongly insist on respect for western values in ukraine, because these are the values on which our community is based.
in writing. - i fully support the resolution on moldova. but the one thing i did not find in the resolution was a clear and lucid statement of the position on the piedmont problem. moldova will not become a full eu member until the conflict in piedmont is resolved peacefully. the division of the country into two is unacceptable. if the moldovan government wants to integrate into the european union, it needs to enter into a dialogue with the piedmontese government to prove to the international community its legitimacy throughout the territory of moldova.
in writing. − in addition to mandatory rules on oil exploration, extraction and transport, maritime policies should also double coverage of losses in the event of accidents. it is also necessary to develop additional safety rules, operational response rules and disaster prevention measures. to achieve this objective, it is necessary to establish a fund in which all actors active in the marine environment should contribute financially. taking all nuances into account will make it possible to ban dangerous technologies used in oil exploration and extraction, and will also stimulate the development of new safe and efficient technologies.
on behalf of the s&d group. thank you, mr president. i fully support the part of the resolution which speaks of the need to respect human rights in the north caucasus. i know the situation in the caucasus very well because i have been there more than once. at the same time, i would like to note that the title of "human rights defender" does not give mr. orlov the right to accuse the president of the chechen republic of murder. if mr. orlov thinks that the sakharov prize is a mandate for reckless claims, he's wrong. the european parliament does not have to act as orlov's lawyer. let orlov prove his justice in court. if not in a russian court, then in a european court. we have no right to take sides in this dispute. we need to give the courts a chance to do their job. but i'd like to give orlov a piece of advice. think before you speak. deception is a crime. thank you!
mr president, the epp group has always been a strong supporter of the single market and i can affirm that we will do our utmost to see this initiative come to life, so that in 2012 we can celebrate the anniversary of the single market with pride, not with regret. i would like to repeat what professor monti said yesterday during the first single market forum. he stated that the single market is not a flagship initiative because it is neither a flag nor a ship. it is a sea and the wind that enables any ship to sail. i am sure that parliament, in its report on the single market act, will seek the right balance between its social dimension and promotion of business and growth. the epp group will pay particular attention to the business environment for small and medium-sized enterprises and will contribute to developing precise ideas on the governance of the single market. i thank commissioner barnier for this very timely initiative and for his vision. he has all our support.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. i am glad that the european union has learned to 'kill two birds with one stone'. the first is aid to enterprises. at a time when member states are being pressured to cut spending and banks are hesitant to lend, the european union is coming up with a concrete solution in the form of a new fund. the second 'buck' is europe's heavy dependence on imported energy resources. this new fund is designed to reduce energy consumption and increase domestic energy use such as wind, solar, water and biomass, thereby reducing total energy import dependency. colleagues, i invite you all to support the creation of this new energy project support fund. it will help our businesses through difficult times and it will reduce our overall dependence on imported energy. thank you for your attention.
member of the commission. - madam president, i am very pleased to see the interest shown, also in the european parliament, in a sector which is essential not only for supplying the market but also for the balance of our territories: the livestock sector. the answers to many of the questions and problems that have been raised will no doubt be found in the proposals that the commission will shortly be making for the future of the common agricultural policy. these are proposals which will also be discussed in parliament no later than next week. we will also probably discuss the question of the fairness of the level of support between the different sectors, including the livestock sector. we will also be discussing the question of supporting the livestock sector in more specific and difficult areas. we will also address the issue of mechanisms for managing income volatility. however, there have been specific questions raised which i would like to answer, starting with the problem of cereal prices and intervention stocks. it is true that we do not have the emergency stocks we had in the past, but that is because prices are now higher. intervention in the market is not justified if prices are high. i think that other types of mechanisms need to be considered and, if stocks can play a role, other types of stocks will need to be considered than the intervention stock on the market that we had in the past, and perhaps this is an issue that needs to be dealt with at an even broader level than just the european level, given that the market is now more open than in the past. mr häusling, on iter, just because part of the budget for 2010 has not been used in agriculture and goes to iter does not mean that we do not have the means to intervene in agriculture. i can assure you that this supplement to iter is not taken from certain cap mechanisms, but that money has remained available and has not been used because it was not needed. but even with this transfer, i can assure you that we have the budget to be able to implement the measures that are needed. i will conclude by saying that the issue of volatility and the effect of speculation on the market on volatility is one that the commission is dealing with in a broader way, for both derivatives and commodities. i am working with my colleague michel barnier on this issue. the commission will come with proposals. and on the question of the distribution of added value in the food chain, we will have a first meeting of the high-level group on this issue with commissioner tajani no later than next week.
in writing. today, the european livestock sector is facing challenges that we all need to overcome together if the livestock sector is to develop and provide farmers with sufficient income. in recent months, there has been a significant increase in cereal prices, driven by exceptional events such as floods in pakistan and forest fires in russia. of course, we cannot control such a climate catastrophe, but we can develop legislative proposals that could help european farmers to cope with the consequences of such a cataclysm. but we can and must certainly limit the speculative trade in cereals, which is one of the causes of this difficulty. such unfair practices must not be allowed to damage a sector that is one of the cornerstones of european agriculture. i would also like to remind the commission that it is necessary to defend the interests of european farmers and ensure a level playing field in the negotiations with the mercosur countries on a new trade agreement. i would like to invite the commission to take an active role in helping european farmers to overcome the difficulties in the livestock sector, because farmers need our support.
in writing. − in view of the negative effects of the global economic crisis, i believe that the european parliament is right to try to control the activities of alternative investment funds. given the huge turnover of the funds, amounting to eur 1 trillion, any misuse of these funds could have a very negative impact on european financial stability. this directive is very important and timely because financial and stock market speculators and dishonest investors will always try to use these funds for personal gain. the directive imposes some restrictions and allows the eu to prevent the vulgar use of funds. i hope this is just the first step in that direction.
in writing. - in this context, i am concerned that the relationship between taiwan and china is not properly formulated. by allowing taiwanese citizens to cross the eu borders freely, we are contributing to the deterioration of china-taiwan relations. given the fact that china is playing a major role in world politics and that taiwan is still a "tipping point", we should not take rash, rash steps. i vote against.
in writing. - i fully agree that 146 million euros are needed for energy projects. this will have a lasting effect if used wisely. first, this decision will give a green light to all those who want to reduce costs significantly in the manufacturing, transport and transit sectors. costs will be reduced, which means higher incomes, and balanced fiscal policies will help eu countries recover more quickly from the global financial crisis. the eu's funding of energy projects is a good incentive for eu governments, local authorities and business leaders.
in writing. - i support the report by mr thomas mann on the whole, but i would like to stress that it covers too many subjects and does not provide solutions to the problems. the issue of discrimination against vulnerable ethnic groups is very important and requires a separate assessment. for example, there are more than 200,000 latvian-speaking people living in latvia who cannot even receive primary education in the latvian language. we have brought this issue to the attention of the national parliament of the republic of latvia many times, but still no one in the latvian ruling elite even wants to discuss this issue.
in writing. − i agree that the funding of these programmes should be simplified, but only on one condition: once the result is achieved, it must be available free of charge to all eu countries. the same goes for one eu country carrying out a research project with eu structural funds, i.e. eu funds in general, but then, when it receives the results, it sells the new product or technology to the other eu member states. this is unacceptable! it is important that all participants in the funding process have free access to the results of research projects implemented with eu funds.
in writing. −for many years, ukraine has been in a state of constitutional and political turmoil. finally, there is the president, who is capable of making decisions. i support mr. yanukovych's efforts to bring order to ukraine. we must use all available means to help ukrainian industry integrate into the european union as quickly as possible. in this respect, the agreement between the european union and ukraine on cooperation in science and technology is, firstly, mutually beneficial and, secondly, it is an important political signal to all ukrainian political forces that we support the policy of rules and regulations.
in writing. − this agreement gives the european union the green light to use japanese technology, one of the most advanced industrial countries. this is a major step forward for the european union. but i hope that this cooperation will go in two directions, because experience with japanese companies shows that the japanese side does not always follow this principle. i voted in favour, hoping that this cooperation would benefit not only japan but also the countries of the european union.
in writing. − in this case, there are two problems that need to be solved methodically and in a targeted manner: 1) fishing quotas; 2) exchange of knowledge and experience on processing and storage technologies for fisheries and pacific products. i hope that all the aspects discussed in the agreement will be geared towards fostering cooperation and mutual exchange of experience.
in writing. − this is a very important issue for the development of european business as a whole. there must be a uniform system of vat rates applicable to all countries of the european union. a comprehensive long-term tax system for all types of business and industry is the key to success in fiscal policy. today, some politicians in latvia fail to understand the dangers of an unstable tax system, filling the budget deficit by constantly introducing changes to fiscal laws. this poses a significant threat to further reduction of the tax burden and leads to a mass liquidation of smes. i believe that the european commission's initiative is timely.
in writing. − the report by mr burkhard balz does not clarify the way in which the ecb controlled and regulated transactions and monetary policy during the crisis. it's just an attempt to formulate the bank's operations in vague, obstructive phrases. in fact, it is not only necessary to establish the state of affairs, but also to eliminate any symptoms that threaten economic development. only then will it be possible to prepare in time and avoid financial debts such as the €110 billion budget deficit in greece, the €28 billion budget deficit in hungary or the €7.8 million budget deficit in latvia. however, i consider that the ecb's report is a positive step overall.
in writing. − given the limited fish stocks in the baltic sea, it is necessary to regulate the fishing of valuable fish stocks strictly. to this end, it is important to clearly define the role of the european union organisations responsible for monitoring and restricting the illicit exploitation of marine resources. quotas are necessary to ensure the recovery of the baltic sea fish stocks. all fishermen need to be given a clear signal that the use of fish resources irrationally can lead to dire consequences.
mr president, i would like to stress three things. first, if the times are tough for everyone, we need to work together. i think the lowest point in our reconciliation was when the council refused to start discussions, and the second lowest was when it refused to start discussions on the basis of documents proposed by the commission regarding the political part of our discussions. but discussions are in the treaty, and they are in at least two parts. first: regarding the multiannual financial framework, in article 312, it is quite clear that if we do not have discussions before we agree on the new mff, it will not be successful. regarding own resources – which is perhaps very sensible for the council – there is no big threat. we are not starting with new taxes but we are starting discussions, which is in article 311. i believe that we need a budget, one hundred percent. there is no other solution. but if we really want one thing – to work together and to start discussions (we do not know what the outcome of discussions will be) – we ask the council to take part in this joint task. i think that we will then make it a success. otherwise, i really hope that you will not go alone, according to article 315. you can do it, but i believe that a joint task will be much better than a separate one.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed concluded that beekeeping is an important sector in itself, both in terms of the products it produces directly and also in terms of the indirect effects it can have on other productions. i also think we can conclude that the bee is a good indicator of our ability to do clean agriculture. on this point, it can also be said that nature is sometimes much more severe with our mistakes than we are, when we do not follow certain rules. as regards support for the sector, i would say that with mrs lulling's support in parliament and all the other support, it would be difficult to say no. but now, speaking more seriously, for the reasons i also outlined in my introduction, it is clear that i have no intention of stopping this support programme. it will just be necessary to see how we can ensure that there is added value in the use of the european budget for this type of programme while leaving the flexibility to the member states for good use. i think that we can indeed add value in research into bee health, but also in the development of production and the development of product quality and in the promotion of the consumption of honey and bee products. we already have programmes on this which are being promoted. maybe it's something we can develop. so i think we have some goals in front of us. they will probably also be part of the common agricultural policy after 2013.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, i have been in contact with representatives of the beekeeping industry in latvia, who generally welcome the updating of the sector's problematic issues, but have questions about some points in the resolution which have not been sufficiently clarified. unfortunately, the latvian media had a negative image of our work and the text of the resolution. several beekeepers, reading the text of the resolution, realized that honey could be defined as containing only 50% real honey and the rest various sweeteners. of course, the beekeeping industry in latvia, which produces high-quality honey, calls such an offer absurd. i therefore think that the resolution should be more precise in explaining that it concerns processed honey products, so that there is no misunderstanding on this matter and our work does not give the public a negative impression of the work of members of the european parliament. i also want to emphasise that we need to talk again and again about the fact that not only beekeepers, but people working in agriculture as a whole are ageing significantly. only 7% of european farmers are under 35 and no less than 4.5 million farmers will retire in the next 10 years. we need to develop support mechanisms for young farmers in beekeeping and other agricultural sectors. climate change in agriculture is a strategic issue that is important for the future of the european union and affects all european union citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i believe that each eu country must see itself as a member of the single european community. however, next time, we would like the rapporteur not only to announce the allocation of funds, but also to explain clearly and clearly the specific works and measures for which such huge financial resources (eur 13 022 500) are being spent. otherwise, misappropriation and other wrongdoing are inevitable. the amount must be specified and justified.
in writing. − unfortunately, moldova is today in a highly volatile zone of economic and political change. the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european community and the republic of moldova on the participation of moldova in certain european union programmes gives hope for positive change to the moldovan people. the conclusion of the protocol shall contribute to the strengthening of cooperation in the fields of culture, education and other fields. i voted for the 'par' because i hope that the partnership will contribute to moldova's integration into the european union.
in writing. - the report by mr christofer fjellner is very timely. the marketing of the medicinal product is not acceptable. it is necessary for the doctor to give the patient recommendations on medication. the doctor has to regulate and prescribe the medicine to the patient to avoid speculation and competition among drug manufacturers. pharmaceutical companies must only provide information support, but in no case must they rely on patients to supply their products. the doctor is responsible for the treatment and must decide which medicines the patient should take during the course of treatment.
in writing. - i fully support the report by mrs jill evans. but i would like to add that this problem needs more attention. the use of lead, magnesium, acid, mercury and rare earth metals in electronics and industrial technology is inevitable. our job is to push manufacturers to switch to less harmful materials. where this is not possible, it is necessary to inform the public of the possible negative impact on consumers of all harmful substances used.
in writing. − it is necessary that this agreement enter into force as soon as possible. any delay is just plain intellectual property theft. the cost to producers is beyond all imagination. today, piracy on the internet is a hot topic, with many internet users and citizens of the european union engaged in unethical activities. in this context, it is necessary to regulate all operations relating to the uploading and so-called exchange of information. failure to act on counterfeiting promotes impunity and looks cynical. i fully support this resolution.
the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the information available to it. i want to talk briefly today about the welfare of our people and the islands. we usually think of islands as good ideas, we like to go there - sun, warmth. the isolation of the southern islands is even good for the well-being of the islanders, because it attracts tourists, but in the energy sector, isolation or island status is bad for the inhabitants. that's exactly what you don't need. why would you do that? energy isolation means that a monopoly usually has a special share in this market, which means that supplies are insecure and prices are high for the population. this report contains the solution. the infrastructure, the infrastructure, the infrastructure! we will build interconnections in the european union to bring everyone together, so that our citizens have good prices and security of supply. thank you.
thank you, chairman. i have one question for all members of the european parliament. why was this resolution on ukraine needed now? helping the new ukrainian government or interfering in the internal situation of the country before the local elections and not allowing them to fix the situation in the country? looks like we're in the middle of a local election. the text was prepared in secret, which contains the observation that things are very bad in ukraine, but those people who want to portray the real situation in ukraine in a different way are mistaken. next, you need to present the facts properly and in more detail, and then write. we must be very serious about our conclusions, for we reap what we sow. thank you.
in writing. i fully support the work of the european ombudsman. his persistence and integrity have produced results because he is honest and consistent in his work. latvia has developed a completely different situation. formally, the saeima of latvia elected romanu apsiti as an ombudsman. however, in reality, since 1 january 2007, when mr assisa took up his post as ombudsman, he has not really started to work. he also did not notice that some 330 000 people living in latvia were deprived of their basic civil liberties. it seems that the latvian government and the saeima chose a comfortable, quiet and uninitiated ombudsman r.apsīti, who in fact turns a blind eye to serious violations of latvian legislation. i would remind you that, according to the duties of the post he occupies, mr assisi has the following duties: 1. to promote the principle of equal treatment and the prevention of discrimination. in latvia, it exists in the field of education. 2. encourage the examination of objective legal and other issues within reasonable time limits. latvia has already lost about 10 cases in the european court of justice on this issue. 3. ensure that shortcomings in human rights violations are addressed. some 330 000 latvians, many of whom have lived in latvia all their lives, have been deprived of their basic citizenship rights. the word ombuds today in latvia is a smile, and if the situation does not change, it can be compared to the word klauns.
on behalf of the ppe group the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the information available to it. none of us like to overpay for things we don't even know the real value of. we also don't like to pay for unfair deals between companies. the european union's competition policy has so far tried to combat dishonest enterprises. the regulation of horizontal cooperation between undertakings is one of the ways in which the commission seems to be tackling competition problems successfully in the areas of cooperation between undertakings in areas such as research and development, the full use of production capacity, the distribution of common goods and standardisation. it is welcome that the new rules on business cooperation have taken account of the issue of standardisation. this will allow companies and industries to make clear choices about which patents they wish to use. any standard is made up of patents filed by inventors and companies. in order to introduce a standard, it is necessary to know what specific technological solution is being proposed and what remuneration the patent holder wants to receive for the use of his patent. it is therefore desirable that all interested parties in the process of selecting a standard have a clear understanding of the advantages and disadvantages of one or the other invention and the price they will pay for the use of the patent. we want to make informed choices every day, and understandably so do companies that invest heavily in developing new technologies and producing high value-added products. this new framework for horizontal cooperation between companies will, in my view, at least partially help companies to avoid paying for the use of patents. thank you for your attention.
thank you, chairman. i want to ask you what does a test pilot mean? it's a pilot who checks planes in flight. what is a test-passenger? the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the airport services agreements concluded between airbaltic and the airlines concerned constitute state aid. however, it is unfortunate that airbaltic does not inform its passengers that they are experimenters. in the opening decision, the commission expressed doubts as to whether the state aid granted to airbaltic was compatible with the internal market. i think that the plane should be prepared before take-off, not during the flight, especially when there are passengers on board. the commission notes that the airline has not provided any evidence that the state aid granted to airbaltic was compatible with the internal market. i would like to draw the attention of the honourable member and the european commission to the problem of air safety. a lack of seriousness can have tragic consequences. thank you.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, our political group supports the visa facilitation agreement between the eu and georgia. however, we have some reservations on the agreement on readmission. we voted against it in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and submitted a written minority opinion, because the agreement contains numerous ambiguities which might be clarified in the joint readmission committee. it does not include strict safeguards concerning the violation of fundamental rights and guaranteeing high standards of reception, which are poor in georgia. it aims at returning people to a country where sexual and gender-based violence is rife and police ill-treatment tolerated. it applies also to those former residents of abkhazia and south ossetia who do not have any de facto links to georgia. and now some words on the visa agreement with russia. three years ago a report was adopted on visa facilitation with russia, which passed my own amendment saying that the requirement of the mandatory registration procedure is a serious obstacle to travel within russia and the eu. unfortunately nothing has changed since that time and this is crucially important for my electorate who travel to russia for private visits.
for the gue/ngl group thank you, chairman. on behalf of my group, i can say that we support the liberalization of the visa system, but at the same time we must make every effort to ensure that all the technical rules that are included in the registers are respected. on behalf of my constituents in latvia, i also support the facilitation of travel from russia to the european union, because it is very important for a situation like the ability of families to meet, as there are many mixed families in latvia, where one half lives in one country, the other in the other, and relatives. this is also the case for tourism, which has recently experienced a great deal of growth. moreover, what has already been done in the area of visa facilitation has already been positively assessed. it's a business need, too. if we look at latvia's business relations with russia, they are seven times higher in imports and eight times higher in exports. this is all very positive. i want the commission to succeed in making it all happen!
thank you, chairman. i would like to focus our attention on social cohesion. it is difficult for me to talk to voters and explain that we are making a deep and deliberate decision here if they feel that their standard of living has deteriorated since joining the european union. i'm talking about latvia, you know. 34% of the population of latvia today live on the threshold of subsistence and poverty. the minimum pension is 64 lati, which is paid to 12% of the population. what i am hearing and seeing here, what is in the reports, i cannot support because i do not see that much attention is being paid to social issues. this is again about further market liberalisation, about competitiveness ... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. to increase the impact of cohesion policy, decisive reforms are needed. cohesion policy support should be concentrated in three main areas. first, geographical coverage is necessary, second, the scope of the aid and, third, administrative concentration. this means that the amount of financial support is channelled to the eu member states, the regions that need it most, i.e. the socioeconomic situation cannot be improved without some support from the eu's cohesion policy. this means that each region has to consider the most up-to-date areas for receiving aid, rather than simply all possible areas without in-depth analysis. each region has to choose 35 of the 10 areas proposed by the commission to concentrate 100% of the available support. this means that administrative burdens must continue to be reduced. the level of trust in the institutions involved needs to be increased in order to optimise the number of functions performed by the institutions. i would like to emphasise that the existing eu cohesion policy allocation criterion gdp per capita by purchasing power parity (up to 75% of the eu average) is a suitable, tested and reliable criterion for determining the location of assisted regions under the convergence objective, as it reflects the real differences between eu member states and regions.
in writing. – i would like to express my sincere gratitude to the rapporteur kinga gál for her effort to open up the problem of the violation of human rights in the european union. how can we reproach or teach someone outside the eu if, in our own community, the law is regularly violated? so far latvia, a member of the eu, has not implemented a resolution of the european parliament of 11 march 2004, where parliament ‘proposes that the latvian authorities envisage the possibility of allowing non-citizens who are long-time inhabitants to take part in local self-government elections’. three hundred and thirty-five thousand permanent inhabitants (15%) of latvia lack their basic rights, but it does not worry anyone. the european parliament can discuss cases of breaches of human rights everywhere except in its own territory. i have voted in favour of kinga gál’s initiative. i offer my total support and the gratitude of 335 000 people.
in writing. − in such cases, support is needed to make all the member states of the european union feel like members of a single family. it would be much cheaper to allocate eu funds to measures that could reduce the effects of natural disasters. for example, the construction of dams and protective walls, as well as the investment in information and warning measures for the population. i believe that it would also be useful to develop building codes for higher risk areas. if the european union simply allocates funds and does not work towards preventing natural disasters, this could lead to more serious consequences in the future.
in writing. - i voted in favour, as in previous cases, of the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund. we need to support people who have lost their jobs and give them the opportunity to use their potential in other areas. i am really sorry that, despite the fact that i personally approached the prime minister of the republic of latvia, informing him about the possibility of using the european globalisation adjustment fund, latvia still did not use this possibility, even though 15 percent of the latvian population is unemployed. it seems necessary to send a signal to the european commission's management about the inaction of the authorities of the republic of latvia. more than 100,000 latvians have already left their homeland. the government of the republic of latvia does not seem to be concerned about the fate of these people.
in writing. − international law and moral principles allow the european union to speed up the granting of legal status to people whose lives in their homeland, outside the european union, are not possible. everyone has the right to be treated humanely. however, it is necessary to define refugee status in the light of all the circumstances and to avoid any speculation on this issue, either in financial or migration policy areas. unfortunately, in the european union and in the european parliament, these are often accepted as facts that have not been fully examined. sometimes false statements by some human rights defenders and individuals are accepted as truth. it is important to avoid populism. in contrast, entire nations can move to europe as refugees.
in writing. − i have always stressed that the european union has a duty to lend a helping hand to those peoples who feel and want to belong to the west and to embrace our values. the georgian people in the rose revolution rejected stagnation, corrupt government, the past and post-communism and chose development, the future and western values. the country has demonstrated through its work that it is a partner in a modern international society that is not afraid to take on its responsibilities. georgia has come a long way in a short time. it has significantly improved public administration, attracted significant investment and significantly reduced corruption. i believe that visa facilitation is a necessary step to open up new study opportunities for georgian citizens and new business contacts with businesses in the member states of the european union. we will all benefit from it, but most of all the citizens of georgia. just as we europeans are proud of our achievements, our history and our cultural heritage, so too georgians are proud of their country, its natural beauty and ancient culture. i hope that the visa facilitation between the eu and georgia will also encourage europeans to visit georgia.
in writing. - i abstained because i am well informed of the situation in georgia and of the commitment of the georgian president to enhance his prestige by signing this agreement. i consider mr. saakashvili to be a war criminal. his regime is responsible for the deaths of thousands of innocent civilians. i saw it myself in chinwali in august 2008. any encounter with a criminal will inspire him to commit more crimes.
in writing. - ms zanicchi, the rapporteur, updated the question of the possibility of a rapid response with a great deal of delay, but its relevance was not thereby diminished. i am convinced that the european union has an obligation to significantly increase funding for the training, equipping and expansion of the rapid reaction force. as a result of climate change, natural disasters will become more frequent. this cannot be achieved without a professional rescue team, whose professional preparedness will allow them to locate and quickly manage fires and technical disasters. i vote against.
in writing. - i voted in favour because, unfortunately, at the moment the european union is not yet fully aware of the possible consequences of not strengthening chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear security. this report is an explanatory note, not an action plan. the preparation of a comprehensive document on nuclear safety requires the involvement of specialists with extensive experience in the use of nuclear energy and nuclear technologies. this work may take many years, but it is necessary. the european union and, in particular, the european parliament cannot produce such a document on their own. i voted in favour, but i think this report is only an epilogue to a book on eu nuclear safety. i hope that the book itself will be launched soon.
in writing. - finish it! finally, someone is taking care of what is called regional policy! given the example of latvia, i can honestly say that even i cannot get the plans for the use of eu structural funds from the officials of the ministry of economy of the republic of latvia. this information is kept in strict secrecy from the latvian public. but what kind of 'recommendation' can you get to know about the european commission's plans for latvia and possibly receive funding? i voted in favour, hoping that the procedure would be open to all and that no one would be unable to keep the european commission's plans secret.
in writing. - i am a 'par' and i consider this report the best report in the votes of 14 december. the basic criteria are defined, all points are thoroughly worked out, the motivation is clear. now, people who have been the victims of crime will be granted legal protection in any eu country when they move from one eu country to another. this will enable the investigating authorities and the prosecution to conduct their investigations in an operational manner and will prevent victims of crime from hiding information relevant to the investigation out of fear. i thank the reporter for his report!
in writing. − it is clear that trafficking in human beings is a serious crime and a serious violation of fundamental human rights. it's clear that everyone will vote for stronger laws against human trafficking. it is clear that mr mirskis will be for a stricter law, as will other meps. this is a subject you can't lose. all are 'par' and therefore 'counted' to the authors of the report. could you find something more important to talk about? it can write 100 more reports, such as on perversion, terrorism, murder, fanaticism, fraud, kidnapping, rape, abuse. about, about, about the... is that the job of a member of the european parliament? i voted for the report. is there anyone who would object?
in writing. − i am in favour because i very much hope that when mr saakashvili absconds from the prosecutor's office of georgia without a travel authorisation on the territory of the european union, he will be immediately and without any problems handed over to the georgian authorities in accordance with the agreement. this agreement is very necessary. i'm the pope.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i am in favour of cohesion, so that all latvian fraudsters are put in prison and do not interfere with the proper use of eu structural funds. in this respect, cohesion needs to be implemented at the level of the prosecution, police and judiciary not only in latvia but throughout the european union. and then billions of euros will be used, first, in terms of importance, secondly, in terms of timeliness and, thirdly, in the interests of citizens, not in the interests of individual officials and political forces. i'm all about cohesion.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i have a question. who knows how much oil and gas we import into europe? who knows how much oil and gas we produce in europe? the answer is that, although we get little in europe compared to our needs, we import a lot of oil and gas from the middle east and russia. and this dependence on imports, which is increasing, also means that it is becoming increasingly difficult for us to establish relations with these third countries objectively. but, colleagues, let's think for a moment about what oil and gas imports are. what does this mean for our citizens? it is in fact the export of european money to these third countries. we actually export money by importing oil and gas. what do we know about the future? we know that in the future, oil and gas prices will only increase for us because these resources are becoming more difficult and more expensive to obtain. this means that in the future, if we do not change our behaviour, we will continue to export our own money outside the european union to third countries in increasing progression. colleagues, there is a simple way to stop this massive export of money from the european union, and it is very simple it is saving. saving energy. by saving energy, we actually make money that we can invest not in third countries' economies but in our own. so i would urge all colleagues to support the report by mr bendtsen on energy efficiency, which is a way in which we can really help our own economy. thank you for your attention.
in writing. − taking into account the countless number of bureaucrats in the european parliament, as well as in the european commission, this resolution brings the european community closer to the well-considered and effective distribution of ec resources in the course of time. i have carefully examined other statements in the report and am glad to discover that certain persons in parliament understand the need to use money in time, not when it is too late. i voted in favour.
in writing. − divorce is a serious matter. quite often it involves broken dishes and divided properties. i sincerely admire the idealism of the rapporteur, tadeusz zwiefka. what happens if the german husband wants to be divorced in germany, but his wife wants to be divorced in sicily because her mother is sicilian? how do you divide a vacuum cleaner and a washing machine if there is no agreement? the idea is good, but it needs to be polished. 90% of divorces are tragedy and scandal. i am ‘in favour’, but let us look at details when considering this kind of document. we need a law, not rules.
in writing. − it is a very important instrument to inform eu citizens about the situation in the companies and banks, but also to compare the competitiveness of different brands and articles. i voted in favour. i also hope that in future this regulation will be completed by control of the rates of political parties and the mass media in order to prevent the manipulation of public opinion for money. the credit rating agencies do not work hard in getting the information and analysing it. they are ready to show the convenient result to those who pay. all those who are manipulating public opinion and thus betraying society deserve severe punishment.
in writing. − the european parliament has today taken a historic decision which will allow civil society to be much more actively involved in the decision-making process. an active civil society, which participates in political decision-making, is one of the cornerstones of democracy. it is one of the key ingredients of a quality policy that has over many years enabled the member states of the european union to achieve high levels of democracy, human rights and prosperity, while making europe as a whole the most developed region in the world. the task of civil society is not just to share wishes. citizens also have to be involved in the decision-making process on a daily basis, expressing their views on specific laws or events on the political agenda. they are interested in participating in democratic control of power and criticizing politicians for their actions. without active civil society, the restoration of the independence of the baltic states and the return of our countries to europe would not have been possible. that is why i am voting with great confidence in the citizens' initiative. until now, european legislation has not provided sufficiently clear mechanisms for european citizens to participate in decision-making and for the european institutions to focus on issues of concern to citizens. i believe that the citizens' initiative will increase people's trust in the european union and the legitimacy of the decisions taken.
in writing. − i do not share the opinion of my colleagues from the s&d group, which is why i have abstained from voting. it does not matter who writes the nonsense: to multiply it is foolishness. the citizens’ initiative is necessary, no doubt, but to collect one million signatures in order to be heard is nonsense! i would like to ask the rapporteurs if they ever collected signatures themselves. if they did, they should know that the minimum cost of each signature certified by a notary is 20 euros. that means 20-30 million euros to introduce a new law. who will finance this action? only large enterprises are able to do that, not ordinary people. is this not then a fake? a point to remember: meps also represent these people.
in writing. − congratulations! finally someone paid attention to the difference between the european commission and gods. it is time to replace idle talking by real work. the european commission should not ignore meps’ questions; their duty is to fulfil the decisions of the european parliament. it looks like some commissioners have forgotten that. if not, what happened to the resolution on the comprehensive monitoring report adopted by the european parliament on 11 march 2004 which opened the subject of the aliens in latvia? it just disappeared from the agenda. who was responsible? whose salary was cut down? who was reprimanded? no one! long live the european council!
in writing. − this future is dim, especially now, on the eve of the africa/eu summit. the best way to ensure it is to finance the public education programmes. people who can get secondary school education would prefer to live in their countries rather to beg in europe. we must support the governments that focus their efforts on making their countries attractive to their own citizens. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour for a number of reasons: 1. it is time to recognise all mass media in the internet;2. false information and defamation should be matters of criminal liability;3. in order to restrict access to vulnerable groups like children;4. in order to clean the internet of spam and punish those who make it circulate;5. in order to induce very strict rules regarding announcements;6. in order to oblige parliament to establish a special structure to search for plotters and hackers and hold them to account. let us work and get it done!
in writing. − here are 10 principal guidelines for energy efficiency. 1. energy – efficient technologies; 2. transport technologies; 3. efficient use of energy; 4. energy transportation circuit security; 5. collection and storage of goods used for energy production; 6. the energy exploitation of countries – suppliers; 7. forming and distribution of energy resources; 8. anti-monopoly programmes for energy consumption and energy supply; 9. nanotechnologies in the energy supply sector and its development; 10. efficient energy legislation. unfortunately, these aspects are not covered by the present report. i voted in favour, bearing in mind that the principal task has only just begun.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution and the proposal to categorically demand that the russian authorities hold to account those responsible for the murder of russian lawyer sergei magnisk, and to invite the ep to consider the possibility of imposing an entry ban on russian officials involved in this case and to freeze their bank accounts and other assets in all eu member states. such a requirement would send a strong political signal to the russian authorities that the serious deficiencies in the russian legal system, the selective application of the law in the interests of power and the fact that those responsible for attacks on or even the killing of human rights defenders, independent journalists and lawyers still too often go unpunished are categorically unacceptable to citizens of the european union. this signal would demonstrate the ep's support for russian human rights defenders who are working in particularly difficult conditions.
in writing. − fully support the report's call to continue work on reconstruction in afghanistan and improving the human rights situation. there's no denying that the security situation in afghanistan today is much better than it was nine years ago. people live in freer societies, girls can get an education and medical services are more accessible than under the taliban regime. however, there are still serious problems which have not been addressed. this is particularly true of the fight against drugs, as the report rightly emphasises. according to experts, 92% of the world's opium is sourced in afghanistan and then transported around the world, including to the european union. it should be noted that opium poppy cultivation is an important source of income for afghans in rural areas where other livelihoods are difficult to find. therefore, the destruction of illegal opium poppy plantations without providing alternative livelihood opportunities is not an effective solution. the afghan government needs to use international aid more effectively to develop small businesses and agriculture in the regions where opium is grown today. the european union's contribution to the reconstruction of afghanistan is considerable, but there is still a great deal to be done. the most important thing is to ensure safety. i would like to emphasise that the withdrawal of the paramilitary forces from afghanistan would not only be dangerous for the local population and a threat to the democratic world, but it would destroy all the good that has been achieved in afghanistan. the people have paid a high price for peace in afghanistan, and we must not let them down.
