member of the commission. − mr president, i am grateful to the honourable members for being so open and straightforward and for making their remarks in such a way that, although certain groups have differing approaches, the emphasis is on how we can find a solution. having said that, i want to start by making one remark in answer to the statement made by mr désir. he referred to a remark by louis michel. i am sure that louis michel can speak for himself, but we were on the same team in a former life, so to say, so i know what line he takes on this issue. if mr désir is saying that the suggestion is that we do nothing, that is not the impression i got, and i sincerely hope that you did not get that impression from my opening remarks either. there is indeed a difference in approach. some are just calling for dialogue on an equal footing, and mr kasoulides advocates that. there have been calls for links of friendship. all these approaches imply sitting around a table discussing issues and trying to reach a mutual understanding on how to solve a couple of issues that we all agree on. there is no doubt about that, for human rights and freedom of speech are indeed a very important and essential part of any agreement. having said that, i would like to touch upon a couple of the issues that were raised. firstly, reinforced institutions. what we are trying to promote and encourage in all the meetings that are held or planned over the coming months is the establishment of a regular dialogue as a means of achieving essential progress in terms of human rights and democracy. in the course of the next couple of months there will be a meeting of the subcommittee on human rights, and you can be sure that there will be a dialogue of substance, which will deal with the issues that we are all concerned about and how to approach them. on the question of human rights violations in tunisia, speakers have regularly referred to the fact that tunisia has been criticised for its record on human rights. since the presidential and legislative elections of october last year, there has been an intensification of repression against opposition parties, journalists and human rights activists. the international community has made it quite clear that that type of behaviour by the authorities is unacceptable and contrary to tunisia’s international commitments. so, to reiterate what i have said already, within the eu there should be no misunderstanding: commitments are commitments, and we have to maintain that line. tunisia must indeed show stronger commitment to fundamental common values such as respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. it should by the way also respect its own international commitments in that field. the commission will pursue our policy of engagement and dialogue on those issues, particularly in the framework of the bodies created by the association agreement. at the same time, the eu is providing support in order to improve governance and promote reforms in the field of justice through cooperation and technical assistance. it is our priority to make progress with tunisia in that area, for example by actively promoting human rights activists and civil society organisations under the european instrument for democracy and human rights. efforts are also being made in the field of judicial cooperation the eu is providing eur 17.5 million to fund a technical assistance project for the modernisation of the judiciary. that has been criticised by some members of this chamber because it provides funds for the president of tunisia’s justice system. the project has many components. these include training for judges and lawyers, technical support for the courts, infrastructure and improved information for citizens. when the project is complete we will assess the outcome. i certainly agree that working in that area exposes us to certain political risks. nonetheless, if we want to encourage reform, we need to act; otherwise, eu cooperation will be confined only to the economic sector. we all agree that that is not the right approach, and would be inconsistent with our own general policy objectives as regards relations with tunisia. on the issue which mrs flautre and mrs vergiat were touching upon, the advanced status of tunisia, i consider that priority should be given to the continuation and reinforcement of dialogue with tunisia. we are aware that it is an important ally of the eu in the region and has achieved considerable progress in terms of economic and social modernisation. perhaps it comes down to whether one regards the glass as half-full or half-empty. having said that, we believe that we need to continue our policy of supporting those forces in tunisia that are working for the political, economic and social modernisation of their country. we are in favour of tunisia’s proposals with a view to strengthening the relationship between the two partners. the council and the commission will look into these issues very carefully, and i am prepared to report any further developments to you. on the other hand, while it is in the eu’s interest to reinforce relations with tunisia, i consider that the granting of advanced status should entail strong commitment on the part of tunisia in terms of human rights and governance, so there will be no ‘free lunch’.
in writing. – this debate seems to me to be untimely at a moment when the dialogue between tunisia and the eu is resuming at both commission and parliament level. dialogue with the commission has included the programming of several subcommittees’ meetings within the framework of the tunisia-eu association agreement (including the human rights and democracy subcommittee), while dialogue at the level of the european parliament took the form of the recent visit in brussels of an important tunisian parliamentary delegation representing four political parties represented in the tunisian chamber of deputies, and with the tunisia-ep interparliamentary meeting scheduled for march 2010 in brussels. at a time when important and constructive dialogue between tunisia and the eu is resuming, i think it is unfortunate to have held a debate that could undermine progress. let us ensure that tunisia and other non-eu states conform to eu standards in the economic, social or political sphere. but let us do that in a well-planned and structured dialogue.
the rapporteur . − i believe that this report will clearly demonstrate the efficiency with which the european union operates through its institutions when faced with a problem requiring urgent and particular attention. i think when talking about the missing trader intra-community fraud, one must necessarily be careful what measures one will take in this temporary scheme which is supposed to stop those who are trying to abuse the v systems. a. other t. and that we have in europe. this fraud, known as missing trader intra-community fraud, which, in its most serious form is known as 'carousel fraud', is a criminal activity which is carried out by experienced and professional fraudsters. recent studies show that this type of fraud accounts for around 24% of all other fraud related to the v. a. other t. and this fraud occurs when the person offering a service or selling a good receives the vat payment from the intra-community buyer and literally this payment disappears without paying the one owed to the treasury by these fraudsters and criminals. and so it was called the "carousel fraud" because this v. a. other t. and the eu's trade policy is based on the principle of free movement of goods and services. the commission proposal thus offers a chance to eliminate this risk we are taking through trade between countries. we are careful that the honest trader does not overestimate the consequences by adding red tape; we also took care that we did not put several products in this temporary measure but only products that we could control and evaluate. the emission trading scheme was also mentioned where another change was made by this commission proposal. we are saying that because of the vulnerability of the emissions trading scheme, another change that was made was that when a member state is ready to adopt this system, the reverse charge should be mandatory for payments concerning greenhouse gas emissions, as it is important that there is coordination and immediate action between all member states. at present, and by 2012, about 90-95% of allowances are allocated to the largest emitters. they are issued by national governments, and between 5 and 10% of them are auctioned. from 2013 onwards, the majority of allowances will be auctioned so before this system starts and is complete, we need to see that the market is protected from those trying to abuse the system. i think that given the consensus in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, even with the compromises we have managed to reach - with the socialists, the liberals and all the political groups - i think this should leave us with a serious path; the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the financial interests of the union. a. other t. in the european union.
the rapporteur . − i too have followed all that has been said carefully and i think that if i had to conclude this important debate, we would all agree that we must do everything we can to combat tax evasion and fraud in various countries. we must do this with the measures being proposed today without harming the trade sector - particularly smes - and without adding red tape. i would rather say that we must continue to reduce the bureaucratic aspects that often hamper the trade sector. we must do this without penalising the honest, that is, those citizens who pay and do not evade taxes - not just citizens but also those in the business sector, those who trade from one country to another, those who are not evasion, who are not criminals. so i think that these proposals will strengthen the credibility of the emissions trading scheme and its related payments. at the same time, as i said, we want to reduce the administrative burden on the honest trader and furthermore we are ensuring that parliament will be informed of the whole process while the reverse charge mechanism is being adopted. i think, like my colleagues, i should thank the commissioner for all the work he has done over the last few years. of course we have not always agreed with you, mr commissioner, but i think that when we look back and look at the taxation field, i think that today we have a more efficient and fairer system for our citizens, that is to say the citizens of the european union.
madam president, we must identify any weaknesses in the eurozone and address them with vigour, because the alternatives are too bleak to contemplate. a glaring weakness is the lack of a strong centralised monitoring function of the whole eurozone economy. special attention needs to be given, firstly, to the discontinuation of cash-flow accounting by any eu member state, and their finances. secondly, the public finances and the reporting need to be audited according to eu-approved standards. thirdly, oversight should be provided for economic forecasts which have been a cause of unnecessary and misleading public financial projections. fourthly, the results of stress tests by the eu need to be published regularly. finally, i think we should discourage eurozone members from the easy way out of financial engineering and fiscal one-offs, delaying real adjustments which we all know must come from credible and sustainable spending programmes.
if we let the fishermen do what they want we are destroying tuna and leading it to extinction. but, mr president, if we stop the tuna trade altogether, we will also be destroying the fishermen, the fishing community, their families and the community that depends on them. i think these are two extremes: we should not destroy the tuna nor the sector that depends on it. and between these two extremes is a middle way that one can catch. there is a way to control fishing in this sector far more than before without closing it down completely. i therefore believe that the inclusion of bluefin tuna in the first annex to the cites convention is an extreme that should be avoided. it would be better to follow the icat organisation's advice, which has already been reducing fishing quotas for years, but as a compromise position, we could even put it in annex 2 of the cites convention. mr president, to avoid the destruction of tuna, we do not have to destroy the many fishermen who depend on it. it is possible to strike a balance between the two.
in writing. – i strongly believe in sustainable development and do not question that the blue-fin tuna (bft) species is overexploited and needs protecting. cites has been successfully used to protect exotic species from extinction, in cases where it is impossible to control innumerable poachers and hunters especially in developing countries. but do we have the same situation here? the bft of the north east atlantic is being over-exploited by a handful of trawling companies, each catching thousands of tonnes. these trawling companies are from leading eu countries: france, spain, and italy. the eu does not need an international environmental body to assist it in controlling the fishing industry practised in its member states. of course we have to be pragmatic. if international political opinion means we cannot stop bft from being listed within cites, let us apply common sense and proportionality by listing the species under appendix ii, as has been suggested by a fao expert group. putting bft on appendix i of cites would cost my country’s economy close to 2% of gdp. it is no different than asking to close down the whole salmon industry in scotland in one swipe. nearly 1% of the labour force would lose their jobs.
in writing. − i would like to explain my voting pattern in relation to the tarabella report entitled ‘equality between women and men in the european union – 2009’. there were a number of amendments which directly or indirectly made a reference to abortion. malta is against abortion. the main political parties are in complete agreement on this issue. the greater part of society also concurs with this view. in addition the religious and moral aspects are an important element.
in writing. − regarding the resolution on the key objectives for the conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites), i voted against the abolition of fishing of northern bluefin tuna. the reason is that this will affect the livelihood of maltese fishermen in a very negative way. the vast majority of malta’s fishermen are not in a position to fish for alternative species and in alternative fishing grounds because of the traditional way in which fishing is conducted. also it is my belief that the criteria for the cites listing are not met in the case of northern bluefin tuna.
let me make it clear, i want to make it clear, the european people's party is in favour of this agreement, it is in favour of the swift agreement and tomorrow it will vote in favour. and i'll tell you why: the european people's party is in favour because its first consideration is the safety of the people, the safety of our citizens. the security of our citizens will be better off with this agreement, which is why we are in favour. this is not because i am saying it, but because the experts who have been deliberately set to work are saying it, to see whether or not this agreement helps the security of the citizens we all represent in this house. it will do good for the security of all of europe and it will do good for the security of other citizens in the world including the united states. now i agree with those who say that the council has not behaved well with the european parliament, but it also seems to me that with the message i sent to the libe committee last week the council has taken this lesson and understood this lesson. i also understand the concerns of my colleagues on the issue of privacy, but here too we must remember that this agreement is an interim agreement and, because it is an interim agreement, we will make a new agreement which gives better guarantees on safety. mr president, in your introduction you mentioned responsibility. i call on my colleagues to use the powers of this parliament, the new powers we have with full responsibility, to be able to face the real 500 million citizens and tell them that we were defending your security. if it is possible, in order to make this house more united, to postpone the vote tomorrow, then we are prepared to consider postponing the vote, but if not we should vote in favour.
in writing. – when the issue of counter-terrorism measures arises the debate always focuses on the affect on civil liberties. i have always taken the stand that it is a question of priorities. it is a question whether passengers are prepared to sacrifice their discomfort for their safety. civil liberty groups have the duty to weigh all new measures being advocated. those proposing new measures such as body scanners have the duty to prove their necessity. although solutions are normally based on compromise, in this instance compromises may not be possible. it is apparent that current procedures, in particular body searches, are not sufficient. it has been established that body scanners are more effective. the problem is that they may offend passengers' dignity. therefore this is the issue which has to be addressed. many possibilities exist. for instance, different body scanners for different genders manned by personnel of the same gender.
in writing. − in order for the european commission to be able to effectively perform its tasks with regard to the european energy policy, it must necessarily be kept well informed of any developments in the relevant sector. this is one of the reasons for which i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
the diplomatic incident between switzerland and libya is escalating and is having very serious consequences for many european union citizens who wish to travel to libya and cannot enter. in particular, workers earning their living in libya, as well as european investors who cannot send their workers there, are adversely affected. in the meantime, workers already in libya are trying to stay as long as possible to cover those who are not yet able to enter libya. of course, there is a limit to how long this can continue. the european union has nothing to do with this incident and is hostage to a dispute between two third countries. i therefore call on the european union to take all possible measures to see that this situation is resolved as quickly as possible.
i take this opportunity to welcome commissioner dalli to his first sitting in this parliament. yes, as already mentioned during the last years, there has been a substantial decrease in travel with travel agencies and an increase in travel packages purchased online. what consumers may not realise is that the online travel package offers limited protection which is much less than when purchased from travel agencies. on the other hand, packages offered by agencies carry costs that are added to comply with the directive, while those purchased online do not. for these reasons, i think that this directive fails to protect the consumer and, moreover, creates an imbalance between operators in the field of tourist travel. in order to keep this going i urge the commission to make sure that there is equal protection on all packages irrespective of where they are purchased from and this in order to safeguard the consumer right which i know for the commissioner, consumer right will come first. and so in the revision of the directive, it should be ensured that definitions and terminologies are clarified and updated; these include the definition of the consumer, the seller, the operator and the essential terms of the contract as well as, as already stated above, the scope of the directive itself. in my opinion, it should be only the operator who has to comply with the directive regardless of how the package is sold, whether it is sold directly or through an agency. the operator shall be the entity that sells or offers to sell at least one of the services included in the package on its behalf and that grants access by any means to all other services contained in the package. i think this is a clear example of how i think commissioner john dalli will work in the coming years; here we have a clear proof of the extent to which the consumer will be granted all the rights to which he is entitled.
member of the commission. − mr president, i have listened to the views of the honourable members with great interest. many of you have affirmed the direction being taken by the commission. others have underlined and emphasised many points that we have noted to make sure that they are all taken into consideration in the deliberations and discussions that we will be having on this revision of the directive. i would like to assure you that the commission takes these issues very seriously and is determined to find the best solutions for the way forward. we are now in the middle of a consultation process. we are analysing the feedback we gathered from the recent online public consultation. consumers, businesses, organisations and member states have all contributed. moreover, i can inform you that the commission will host a stakeholders’ workshop on 22 april 2010. this workshop will focus on possible policy options for the revision of the package travel directive, including all the issues that have been mentioned during this debate. i must stress that it is as yet too early to decide the way forward. it is essential to respect the impact assessment procedure. however, i am determined that any action should aim at ensuring a high level of protection to the eu’s citizens. before i close, may i once again thank all those present for contributing to this debate. thank you very much.
author. − mr president, the econ committee has put forward this question and resolution because some careful thinking has to be done. last year the committee discussed financial transaction taxes with commissioner kovács, who, like many, said he found the idea attractive, and we made it clear then that it would be a good idea to investigate how it would work, including the infrastructure for it. since then, the commission has been investigating the subject, and we are highlighting here the large range of questions needing to be answered. there have been calls, including in the g20 last september, to make the financial sector pay for setting up stability funds and recompense for the damage that they have caused to the real economy. president barroso has suggested using a global financial levy to fund environmental projects. the original tobin tax idea of using a financial transaction tax for development aid has also strongly resurfaced. it is not the intention of this resolution to bring pressure to bear in any one direction, other than for answers and impact assessments, but of course we have many who are strong advocates of transaction taxes and many who have equally strong reservations about them. nowadays, it does seem highly likely that the collection of a transaction tax is easier, even at international level, given the electronic nature of many transactions, but it is also impossible to ignore the fact that there are more alternative competing destinations for the proceeds of any tax. one idea concerning the tax is that nobody would notice because it is so small in each instance. on the other hand, others suggest it should be used to deter excessive transactions. it seems to my committee that if the end amount collected is large – and the sums suggest so – then somebody somewhere will actually be paying. many financial transactions are intermediate, not like end sales, so the intermediaries – banks and the like – will bear the tax. but surely the extra costs – for that is what they are – will simply be passed on to the end user. some may say that does not matter. however, there are also other ways that taxation could be raised within financial services. then there is the question of who is to collect the tax and who is to decide how it is used. here there is even the ‘no taxation without representation’ issue. if the tax is collected in london for a derivative transaction that is uncosted, to somewhere else in the world, who says where to spend it? this question may be easier to answer if it goes to a financial stability cause in which the payers are obviously participating than if it is to go outside the financial sphere, such as to environmental projects or development aid. all these things have an international element, both on the paying side and on the spending side. we probably cannot do all these things and have all these benefits, so at the very least choices have to be made about what we are trying to fix, the method by which it is to be done and the primary purpose of the tax. finally, indeed, are we right to mix regulation with tax-raising? are these truly complementary?
mr president, it has been no less than 40 years since as students we discussed a new international economic order, one part of which included a proposal to use special drawing rights (sdr) loans to the imf and to include a sort of tax on national governments which would be used for helping poor countries. this, as we know, did not materialise. many years later realities have changed: globalisation, together with the advancement in technology and the stronger political will, has made certain plans more doable. the number of global policy objectives has, however, increased. besides poverty, which unfortunately is still with us, we are also concerned with global environmental problems like climate change, and now we are essentially talking about a sort of global insurance premium to compensate victims for the social and economic pain caused by financial catastrophe. we have to be careful when faced with multiple objectives. i suggest that we abide by the wise rule, that we ensure that for each objective we need a separate instrument. let the commission be bold, but we must ensure that the financial transaction tax must be very focused and doable. let us not try to make it all things to all people.
mr president, sepa is a commendable initiative that will undoubtedly be of great benefit in improving the efficiency of cross-border payments and turning the fragmented national markets for euro payments into a single domestic one, by enabling customers to make cashless euro payments to anyone located anywhere in the area using a single bank account and a single set of payment instruments. another major benefit will result from the reduction of the overall costs to the european economy of moving capital around the region, which is estimated today at two to three per cent of the total gross domestic product. we must remember that the end goal of sepa was to create a truly domestic payments environment all around europe, and it is understandable that achieving such an ambitious goal is by no means easy, especially when considering the unfortunate necessity of finding compromises between the often conflicting interests of the pan-european banking community. the economic crisis has only hindered the process of implementing sepa standards; this is a costly process and the banks have understandably had other, more urgent priorities in recent times. an analysis of the current situation should be carried out and, i think, a realistic timetable set as soon as possible. it is now essential that a legally binding deadline for migration to the use of sepa instruments be established, as my colleague mr karas has just said. it is unacceptable that to date there is no concrete schedule in place. the notion that domestic standards should be allowed to run in parallel with sepa is inefficient and counterproductive. i therefore call on you, mr commissioner, and the commission, to bring certainty to this already fragile sector and ensure that a legally binding end-date for migration to sepa instruments is finally set.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i think it is very important that we are together with my colleague john dalli to answer your questions and to inform you about the implementation of these various instruments or texts. in my political life, i have often thought, ladies and gentlemen, that the follow-up effect is at least as important as the advertising effect. i therefore think it is very important, when we are in a national parliament, or in the european parliament, or in the commission, that we have instruments to check, to evaluate the practical, sincere implementation of the texts we vote on. i also think that to do well, one must understand well, and that is precisely what your rapporteurs have been doing with great skill and vigilance. i would like to thank mrs thun und hohenstein and mr buşoi, for the quality of their reports, and mrs hedh, for the quality of their reports. what are we talking about? we are talking about the internal market. i was saying quite late last night in this house that in the present crisis and economic difficulty we cannot afford not to use all the potentials. if the internal market, the single european market, were to function normally, as it should, we could achieve between 0.5 and 1.5% of additional growth on our own. right now, we can't afford to lose this opportunity. the internal market must therefore function fully in all its dimensions and that is, of course, the task that president barroso has given me under your supervision. that is why i attach importance to this bulletin board, as well as to this solvit instrument, and to their proper functioning. i think john dalli will say exactly the same thing on the important consumer issue. mrs thun und hohenstein has specifically mentioned the good news or the less good news of this bulletin board. we are talking about 1 521 directives or texts which make the internal market work, that is a lot. there is a transposition deficit today which is, as you have very well said, the lowest ever. this is good news and we should thank all those who are responsible for implementing this directive in the member states and sometimes in the regions. i would also like to add my colleagues from the directorate-general for the internal market to this thank you. the quality of transposition and implementation is not satisfactory. we must therefore work together, with the european parliament, with the national parliaments, with the civil servants in each member state. as i said when i was heard by parliament, this is the purpose of the visits i will make from now on - i have already started - to each of the 27 capitals to meet personally, under the authority of the competent ministers, with the officials responsible for implementing the internal market directives, for drawing up the elements of this scoreboard or for making solvit work, as mr buşoi very well said. and that is why i also say to róża thun und hohenstein that i agree with this idea of a forum, it is a very good idea. we must bring people together, and we will do so together, here in parliament, with the commission, the national parliaments and all the officials of each of the member states, to share, evaluate and exchange good practice. i believe fundamentally in this utility of sharing responsibility: contract rather than constraint, contract first, trust and working together. for solvit, mr buşoi stressed the importance of this tool, which is beginning to work well. we have now 1 500 cases which have been dealt with by consultation, resolution and mediation, mainly by citizens but also by a large number of companies. as mr buşoi has rightly said, this saves money and time and thus citizens, consumers and businesses are placed at the heart of the single market rather than having to go through procedures which are too cumbersome to be able to solve, understand and provide a solution to their difficulties in implementing this or that provision which interests them, linked to the internal market. this is the same spirit that drives the single market assistance services action plan, the smas plan, to provide better information and service to citizens and businesses. here too, progress has been made, with the plan bringing together different services and common online forms between solvit and the citizens' guidance service. as your rapporteurs have suggested, i think, under the control of john dalli, that we could make an effort, that we must make an effort to present all these documents, all these results, all these communications at the same time, to bring together and better coordinate these different tools which report on the implementation of the texts or directives relating to the internal market. in any case, i agree to this better coordination and confirm my personal commitment to making good use of the various instruments for evaluating and monitoring the 1 500 directives relating to the functioning of the internal market.
member of the commission. − mr president, i will be commenting on the report about these two very key european policies – the consumer markets scoreboard and the consumer enforcement package – that has been presented by ms hedh. i would like to thank ms hedh for her excellent work as a rapporteur. consumer policy lies at the heart of the economic and social challenges that we face today. it is all about people. informed and empowered consumers drive innovation and competitiveness, but, perhaps most importantly, making the internal market work for consumers is our trump card in reconnecting with citizens. the central role given to consumer policy is reflected in a number of portfolios. indeed, the college will be working together closely on ensuring that the rules adopted translate into practical benefit for consumers. i am here today with my friend michel barnier, just as an indication that this is the close way in which we will be working together. this will be our working practice. the consumer dimension is to be developed in all portfolios and benchmarks will be adopted across the commission to measure progress or the lack of it. the consumer scoreboard serves as an alarm system, telling us even when the internal market is letting consumers down. the scoreboard also serves to monitor progress in integrating the retail side of the internal market for consumers, smes and other retailers. it also helps to show whether member states are doing enough to enforce new consumer law and to inform, educate and empower consumers. turning to enforcement, i am pleased to see that parliament shares the commission’s view about the importance of giving people in practice the rights they have on paper. we have a long way to go in this regard. the communication of july 2009 aimed at identifying ways of making enforcement more effective, efficient and consistent throughout the european union. it now needs to be translated into concrete action. one priority will be to step up efforts to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of our cross-border networks, which must send strong messages to traders that there is no safe haven in the eu where they can hide from pursuit. the same applies to cooperation with authorities in third countries. to achieve this, national enforcers need sufficient staff and resources. in tough economic times all public services are under pressure, but cutting back on enforcement of consumer rights can only be false economy. free, open, well-policed markets encourage competition on quality and price and drive competitiveness. this benefits not only consumers but also the eu economy as a whole. both the commission and parliament should work together to ensure that this message rings out loud and clear across member states. we also intend to continue the good work in establishing europe-wide coordinated enforcement – so-called sweeps. however, these sweeps have shown that sometimes combining national efforts is not enough. european solutions are needed. i will therefore happily take up your invitation to explore the legal basis in the treaty with a view to strengthening consumer protection, in particular enhancing the commission’s capabilities, but this will be done and we will go down this road if we are first convinced that it will add value to work at national level. turning to redress, i agree that alternative dispute resolution mechanisms can offer cheap, simple and quick redress for consumers, while maintaining the reputations of businesses. one element of this strategy relates to the handling of collective claims. here i intend to make sure, together with vice-presidents almunia and reding, that the commission moves forward in a coordinated manner. finally, i count on your support to ensure that sufficient funding is made available post 2013, when the current consumer programme expires, to support the ambitious consumer policy, not least the continued delivery of an enhanced scoreboard. together i am confident we can meet the complex challenges of today and tomorrow and work in partnership to ensure the internal market delivers its full potential to all our citizens.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on petitions. − on behalf of the committee on petitions, i have prepared an opinion on the solvit network which i fully support as a means of helping citizens in difficulty. but i do make an important point to be noted: the need for full cooperation between all the stakeholders that the citizen contacts. what can citizens do today when they are in difficulty? either you can come to parliament and petition, and the treaty, article 194 gives this power to the european parliament, you can go to the european commission and make a complaint, you can go to solvit and make a complaint. a citizen can also go to the european ombudsman and make a complaint but all this creates complete confusion and the citizen with a complaint does not know exactly where to go for someone to help. and so, in my opinion, on behalf of the committee on petitions, i am calling for more cooperation between all the institutions involved so that the citizen knows exactly where to go and where to turn.
in writing. – it is unbelievable that, in two essential areas such as health and consumer protection, in malta and gozo the official structures are completely passive in spite of blatant transgressions. in the maltese islands, medicines are much more expensive than in another eu country, namely belgium. i will give the following examples: galvus 50 mg (diabetic pills) price in malta for a box of 28: eur 27.84 price in brussels for a box of 180: eur 135.13 for 180 pills, the price in malta is eur 178.97 as compared to eur 135.13 in brussels. tegretol 200 mg price in malta for a box of 50: eur 17.00 price in brussels for a box of 50: eur 7.08 zocor 20 mg price in malta for a box of 28: eur 34.94 price in brussels for a box of 84: eur 21.71 for 84 pills, the price in malta is eur 104.82 as compared to eur 21.71 in brussels. these are only a few examples of a situation which is contributing to the hardship being suffered by the majority of maltese families. the eu prides itself on health and consumer protection but in the maltese islands the price of medications has spiralled for no justifiable reason.
in writing. – serious consideration has to be taken as regards existing union-wide redress mechanisms such as solvit , this alternative avenue for redress is underused due to lack of knowledge of its existence on the part of citizens, consumers and businesses, as well as because of the inadequate resources in place at national level. solvit centres that are currently present in each member state (as well as in norway, iceland and liechtenstein) are understaffed and underfunded - training for staff and funding to improve the administrative capacity of the centres must be stepped up. i call upon the commission to complete the single market assistance services (smas) project as a matter of priority. i propose that the commission consider including in the consumer market scoreboard a detailed account of the progress, achievements and shortcomings of solvit. furthermore, in an attempt to raise awareness, member state must promote solvit as an expedient and accessible alternative dispute resolution mechanism, in the form of a nation-wide information campaign. finally, there needs to be marked improvement on the part of the commission and the member states to raise awareness of the opportunities that the single market offers for citizens, consumers and businesses.
i would also like to congratulate my colleague carlos coelho on his report for this initiative which is giving third country nationals the possibility of moving more freely within the european area of freedom. i would like to point out, however, mr president, an irony in this debate, which is this: while we are giving more rights to third country nationals, right now, the european union and its citizens are facing serious problems with the travel of european union citizens to a country like libya, for example. there is an ongoing problem between switzerland and libya which has resulted in libya suspending travel for all european union citizens and not just for switzerland. so we are giving more rights to third country nationals and our own citizens, they are having fewer rights to travel to third countries such as libya. what are the consequences? the consequences are serious and very serious. you have workers who cannot go to work in libya, you have companies that cannot send their workers as investors in libya, you also have workers who are in libya and have to stay in libya until their replacements are sent. this is a precarious situation and i call on commissioner malmström to intervene in this matter as a matter of urgency. i understand that this is a diplomatic issue between two countries which are not even members of the european union but which has serious consequences for european union citizens who have an interest in travelling to this country to earn their daily bread.
president of the commission. − the provisions of the treaty work to promote human rights throughout the world. the european union has adopted guidelines in human rights on issues ranging from the death penalty to the prevention of torture and support for human rights defenders. under these guidelines, the european union implements a wide range of actions, ranging from public declarations or diplomatic démarches to trial observations. i myself have been raising the issue of human rights in summits with heads of state and government from third countries. just recently, in the summit we had last week with morocco, we made the point on fundamental rights. the european union has established some 40 human rights dialogues with partner countries around the world which serve as dedicated fora for detailed discussions on that issue. under the european instrument for democracy and human rights, the commission programmes around eur 150 million each year to support human rights ngos across the globe. we try to insert a human rights clause in every framework agreement which we conclude with a third country.
one of the fundamental principles is freedom of movement and now in view of the current issue between libya and switzerland, mr president, there are hundreds of citizens of the european union, workers of the european union who cannot enter libya to carry out their work. my question is: what is the european commission doing to find a solution to this issue as a matter of urgency? and does the president of the european commission think it acceptable that one country, like switzerland, takes a unilateral decision affecting all citizens of the schengen area and in particular workers who have to enter libya to work to earn their daily bread?
president of the commission. − as you know, we have been working over the years to reduce financial errors in the accounts of the european union. many of those errors, as you know, are the responsibility of the member states in the implementation of many european programmes. i am encouraged by the recent opinion given by the european court of auditors recognising the progress made so far, but i believe that we should not be complacent in this area. we are ready to work to reduce all kinds of errors in the implementation of the european union budget.
the treaty talks about how we will respect fundamental human rights and those countries that want to become members of the european union should see to it that they are "in line" with what the european union is asking, as malta has done, and as several other countries have done who have become members along with us. does the president think that turkey has a lot to do with fundamental human rights? and what is the commission doing to ensure that before we get the economy in place in turkey, before we get anything else that we are asking of turkey, i think the first and most important thing is the fundamental human rights which, i am sorry to say, are non-existent in turkey.
i also want to give my support, in particular to the member of parliament, lívia járóka, who is working so hard on this sensitive and important subject. as my colleague mr president has said, the situation of the roma population in europe is not limited to a limited number of countries. it is a situation that concerns the whole of the european union because the roma are the largest ethnic minority in europe. in this light, we need to evaluate what the european union is doing now to see what we can do better. and i was pleased to hear the vice-president of the european commission, viviane reding, give us a full explanation of this. and this is a good time to do so in view of the rome summit to be held in córdoba next month. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the social partners, the social partners and the social partners. an integration policy should therefore be adopted that will ensure that roma can truly access the opportunities available to others. in particular, the possibility to work, to develop their skills, to lead a dignified life and to succeed. this will not only enable them to support themselves but also to contribute to the societies in which they live. but to do so we must take the necessary steps to remove the existing barriers. i hope that our message in this house, in this parliament, our message of solidarity with the roma, will be heard at the summit next month.
in writing. − i voted against amendment 18 as this amendment in my opinion contains a paradox. it deplores the logic of militarisation in its introduction and concludes that ‘cfsp should be based on peaceful principles and the demilitarisation of security’. my personal position is in line with my country’s international status of neutrality and therefore, as the amendment is not at all lucid, i decided that i could not vote in favour or abstain.
rapporteur. − mr president, the last two years have certainly been the most challenging for the ecb, in its role as guardian of financial and price stability, since its inception. my report on the ecb’s 2008 annual report was drafted in this context. the report focuses on the ecb’s continued response to the crisis, its exit strategy proposals, the increasing imbalances within the eurozone, the reform of the eu’s financial architecture and, finally, issues related to the governance and accountability of this institution. i hope that a good balance has been found. the financial and economic crisis has seen the worst global economic decline since the 1930s. after a relatively benign period of economic growth enjoyed across most of europe, most member states have had their economies stress-tested, not through a simulated model but in real time and with painfully real consequences. the result has been gdp growth of a meagre 0.7% in 2008, followed by a 4% contraction in 2009. meanwhile, member states across the eu have forecast a very sluggish and uneven return to growth in 2010 and 2011. most member states are experiencing rising budgetary deficits and debts. the commission’s economic forecast in autumn 2009 predicted average budget deficits across the eurozone of 6.4% and average government debts of 78.2%, figures which in turn are both expected to increase in 2010. it will take years for these figures, brought about by the financial and economic crisis, to return to the pre-crisis levels. i believe that the ecb has responded fairly well to the crisis. the primary function of the ecb is to maintain price stability. although inflation was far above the ecb’s self-imposed ceiling when it peaked at 4% in june and july 2008, inflation rates have since tumbled. the ecb has also steadily cut interest rates from a peak of 4.25% in june 2008 down to the current rate of 1% in may 2009, in a bid to reinvigorate lending and to kick-start the european economy. the ecb’s additional role during the crisis has been to expand liquidity provisions through the use of non-standard measures. without such financial life-support, many financial institutions holding the savings and pensions of many european citizens would undoubtedly have collapsed. of course it could be suggested that the ecb’s interest rate cuts were not as radical as those taken by the likes of the us federal reserve or the bank of england. similarly, while the ecb’s massive cash injections have kept many institutions from collapse, the reality is that many banks have not passed on the liquidity to customers, particularly to the detriment of the small and medium-sized businesses on whom economic recovery rests. instead, many banks have used the liquidity to buttress their own position. to justified public revulsion, it has allowed them to make bonus payments as well. i also cannot avoid making a quick reference to the policy responses needed to the current fiscal imbalances, a subject which is surrounded by a lot of confusion and which requires timely and decisive action. however, i will leave it to my colleagues here perhaps to amplify on this. like previous rapporteurs, i believe that the dialogue between this parliament and the ecb is constructive and is developing positively. this is something to build upon. i believe that parliament should be more closely involved in the appointments of the ecb executive board members – including the next president of the ecb – by following the precedent that has recently been set by the procedure taken for the appointment of the new vice-president of the institution. the ecb is accountable to the citizens of europe through the european parliament. we must strengthen that accountability. above all, the crisis has demonstrated that markets left unregulated do not always self-correct and are prone to systemic risk. for this reason it is important to support and complete the comprehensive set of reforms to the financial architecture of the eu and, in particular, the establishment of a european systemic risk board, a body designed to act as a watchdog, giving an early warning of any systemic risks of instability in the financial… (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, 2008 was an extremely important year for the european and indeed the global economy. it was the year that was characterised by a great deal of uncertainty as regards the extent of the crisis, which only seemed to worsen. a great deal of uncertainty was also present with regard to the time it would take for the european economies to recover as well as the tools that we should use to stimulate such a recovery. this was no easy year for the ecb, which had to face a number of challenges. during 2008 the ecb engaged with other major central banks to form a coordinated approach in order to provide the banking system with plenty of short-term liquidity, and this approach by the ecb proved to be extremely successful. in this respect i must support my colleague in the conclusion he has come to concerning the performance of the ecb. i agree that 2008 was instrumental and that those responsible have risen to this occasion. i also share some of the rapporteur’s concerns with regard to the lack of transmission of interest rate cuts from the bank to the consumer and i feel that this should be further looked into, so please take note, mr trichet. all in all i feel that this is an extremely well-balanced report, an excellent piece of work by my maltese colleague edward scicluna.
president of the european central bank. mr president, i must say that i have been in this parliament for six and a half years now and that this is the first time i have heard so many speeches, so many analyses, so many suggestions, so many proposals. i am very impressed by the richness of what we have just heard, and i am also very impressed by the diversity of views that have been expressed. i shall, if i may, try to sum up my main messages after hearing these remarks, which are all interesting and relevant and which the european central bank will, of course, take very seriously. first of all i would say that i have heard a lot about the challenges the ecb faced and praise for the ecb for having been able to react in real time in very difficult circumstances. let me tell you that i think my colleagues and i tried to do our best in very exceptional circumstances: the worst since world war ii, and it would probably have been the worst since world war i if we hadn't acted promptly. the challenges were faced by all; many of you have said that the challenges existed for other central banks in europe and in the rest of the world. so we all had to face up to enormous responsibility and i fully agree with those who have said that we cannot say that difficult times are over. we are not over the difficult times. we are not going back to business as usual. we have to remain extremely alert. i also got the message on growth and jobs, which is a very strong message from parliament. i fully agree with that. by delivering stability, by being credible in delivering stability in the medium and long run, we trust that we are contributing to sustainable growth and sustainable job creation. but you know that our message is structural reforms; structural reforms to raise the growth potential of europe and the job creation capacity of europe are absolutely essential. a firm message coming from you, which we fully share in the ecb is and i do not want to respond in the place of the commissioner governance of europe of the 27, governance of the 16 members of the euro area is of the essence. we call for the utmost level of responsibility from countries, whether members of the 27 or of the 16, to exercise their responsibility, to exercise surveillance on the peers. we absolutely need full and complete implementation of the stability and growth pact. monitoring of fiscal policies is at the heart of emu, and i must also include monitoring of structural reforms and implementation of structural reforms, and monitoring of the evolution of the cost competitiveness of the various economies, particularly members of the euro area. this is a key issue. i do not want to elaborate more on greece and the various issues at stake. i have already had the opportunity to answer many questions in the committee on economic and monetary affairs and in front of parliament. let me just say that greece has a role model, and the role model is ireland. ireland had an extremely difficult problem this was said by one of the meps here and ireland took its problem very seriously ex ante, with extreme determination, professionalism and capacity, and this has been recognised by all. i want to stress that. that being said, i repeat: the ecb's assessment of the new measures taken by the greek government is that they are convincing and, i would add, courageous. a word on the long-term situation inside the euro area: during the next 10 or 20 years we will deliver price stability in line with the definition we have delivered since the inception of the euro. you can trust us. we can prove that. this is not theory. these are facts; these are figures. and i insist on this, all the members of the euro area know that the average inflation in the euro area will be below 2%, close to 2%, in the medium and long term. they must draw the national consequences. they enjoy membership of the euro area. they must not be situated in a national context, in terms of national inflation, which is outside what we guarantee because we have been asked to do so, because we are faithful to our mandate and because it is a contribution to the prosperity and stability of europe. let me conclude, mr president, if i may in a few words, on the question of transparency. as i have often said to members of parliament, we are the most transparent in the world in publishing our analyses immediately, that is the introductory statement. we are the most transparent in the world when it comes to the press conference that follows the governors' council. the only area where this decision does not stand - and we have a good reason - is that we are not giving the names of those who are voting for this and those who are voting for that, because we consider that our message is that we are not a collection of individuals. we are a college. the governing council is the pertinent entity. it is the governing council which counts. i have already said that it is not business as usual and we must absolutely reform the financial markets in a very profound way, in order to be sure that we do not start another crisis of the kind that we have had to deal with. a final point on poland and hungary: one mep mentioned poland and hungary and told us that they were not treated as they should be by the ecb. i think the mep is not well informed; i would encourage her to go to the national central banks of the two countries and it will be demonstrated to her that the ecb has a very intimate cooperation with those two central banks for the benefit of us all.
member of the commission. − mr president, first i would like to say thank you to the members for a very serious and substantive debate. i have listened to your views very carefully. i can conclude from them that there is strong and broad support for an effective reinforcement of economic governance in the euro area and in the european union as a whole. in my view, today’s debate has been a very worthy and valuable setting of the scene for the european council today and tomorrow. i also welcome the opportunity to continue discussions on economic governance soon in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, preferably as soon as possible after easter. i would like to consult you and move forward soon with concrete proposals. there are two lines of action in reinforcing economic governance, which are of the essence. first of all, its cornerstone will be a truly credible and better preventive fiscal and budgetary surveillance that is stronger and more rigorous, also covers the mid-term budgetary policies, and uses recommendations and, if needed, warnings to the member states. its second building block will consist of more effectively preventive and more systematic and rigorous surveillance of macroeconomic imbalances and divergences in competitiveness between the member states of the euro area and of the european union. binding policy recommendations will also be used in this regard. this is needed to prevent an accumulation of imbalances. it is self-evident that without a doubt the most pressing and urgent need exists in the countries with large deficits and weak competitiveness – not only in greece, but of course starting in greece. it is equally self-evident that we cannot – and will not – mean by this that anybody would weaken the export performance of countries with current account surpluses. in other words, the aim is not to make bayern münchen play worse against olympic lyon but to improve both export competitiveness where needed and domestic demand where needed and possible, thus making both bayern münchen and olympic lyon play better as a european team by making both offensive and defensive strategy ever stronger. that is what the euro area – and in the final analysis the european union – is all about.
rapporteur. − mr president, a few points first. i would like to take the opportunity to thank the ecb for its cooperation and availability in responding to my various queries. secondly, i would like to thank my fellow shadow rapporteurs for their joint team work in agreeing to amendments to this report and thus widening the agreement on it. we have seen that the recent recession is proving to be a challenge. however the tensions in the euro area are not new and are well known. we know we are not yet an optimal currency area. however, that is why we have to be innovative. we have to follow sensible economic principles and policies. of course they must be couched in line with european social cohesion principles. some observers have stated that the ecb cannot help greece because this is forbidden by the ‘no bail-out’ clause of article 103 of the eu treaty. nevertheless, it is one thing to implement a bail-out and another, very different thing to provide temporary financial assistance. we know that there are several options before us. some can be executed in the short term and others in the medium term. as my colleagues before me pointed out, and as europeans, we all look up to the euro and we all want it to succeed. we can make it succeed, so let us all – parliament, commission, council and the european central bank – put our heads together and find a successful path forward. finally, we must restore public confidence in financial institutions through measures which include greater transparency, better risk management and appropriate regulation. we need to ensure that a crisis of this magnitude does not occur again.
mr president, we have had two speakers addressing this house to reject the resolution but no speaker to speak in favour of the approval of this resolution. so i think it is only fair that someone who can speak and urge members to speak in favour of the resolution should be able to do so. if you allow me just one minute, may i say that the reason why the libe committee rejected these rules and therefore put forward this resolution is very simple. we have been told by our legal services – not once but twice – that the commission exceeded its powers in bringing forward these rules. this is why we rejected them. we definitely want these rules – i myself come from a country that wants these rules – but we do not want the european commission to exceed its powers. that is why we should support this resolution.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am really happy that we are now very close to a final adoption of the regulation establishing the european asylum support office. the commission proposed this back in february 2009, and the council and parliament have been extremely committed to this. the establishment of a common asylum system has been an objective of the european union for many years, and the commission and myself remain very committed to this objective. we must establish a system which is fair and efficient, based on common standards and common principles. this system should also be based on solidarity, and that means solidarity with the migrants, with the countries of origin and transit, and it also means solidarity between the member states. in order to strengthen the solidarity between the member states, practical cooperation between the different authorities in the area of asylum is important as a part of forming the european asylum system. to enhance this practical cooperation, the establishment of the asylum support office was requested by the european pact on asylum and migration of 2008 and agreed in the stockholm programme in 2009. the support office will therefore be a cornerstone in the building of a common asylum system. the support office will, as you all know, be located in valletta. it will provide concrete and operational support to member states’ authorities, and will facilitate the development of the necessary cooperation between the member states and the development of common practices. this will be achieved through training of individual persons dealing with asylum applications and through exchange of information and best practices. the support office will also provide assistance to member states under particular pressure by sending expert teams which can help with the registration of asylum applications. i would very much like to thank the european parliament and all the rapporteurs responsible for this – mrs jean lambert, of course, for her work, as well as mr moraes for the necessary amendments to the european refugee fund, and all the co-rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs. your full and constant support has been extremely valuable and i am looking forward to working with you on the final steps before this office opens – hopefully very soon.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i too would like to start by congratulating jean lambert on her report, on the success she has had on this dossier and also on the loyal way in which she has cooperated with us, the shadow rapporteurs, on this subject. the european people's party is positive about the establishment of this asylum support office as it considers it an important step forward in the establishment and operation of the common asylum policy in the european union. of course, on a personal level, as a maltese mp, i am also proud, and not just pleased, that this office will be set up in the capital of the country, the city of valletta. i would say that the office must recognise that the common asylum policy must be built on a single word, as i have already mentioned, solidarity: solidarity with those people who come to europe and want to take refuge in europe and who have the right to protection in europe, and this office should see to it that we employ them, and also solidarity, as the commissioner so well said, with those member states of the european union which are now alone bearing the whole burden, without that burden being shared. so we want this solidarity to be understood in its full sense, because it is like having two sides of the same coin, solidarity with those who deserve protection, solidarity with the member countries who are carrying a disproportionate burden. i would say that it seems that this message about the importance of solidarity has been understood, but we are still at the stage of understanding the message. i would now like to put this principle into practice. and there is a strong role for the office that is to be set up - to embody this principle, to implement it, and to see that, through the specific initiatives it takes, we have real solidarity with those who deserve it. i therefore assure you that this office will be operational immediately and i would also like to assure you that we, as members of parliament, will be closely following its operation in the months and years to come.
acting president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner malmström, on 24 march last the commission adopted a recommendation to the council authorising the opening of negotiations between the european union and the united states with a view to reaching an agreement to make financial messaging data available to the united states department of the treasury for the purpose of combating and preventing terrorism and its financing. the recommendation was immediately presented to the rapporteur and to some members of the european parliament and forwarded to the council of the union. the union remains convinced of the need for such an agreement and therefore fully supports the commission's recommendation to negotiate an agreement on the programme for monitoring the financing of terrorism. the commission's proposal has been studied in depth in coreper and, in principle, this commission recommendation will be voted on at the next council meeting and we will do so favourably, taking into account, of course, the position of the european parliament and the views which will be expressed here today in this chamber of the european parliament on this subject. the council agrees with the european parliament that the future agreement, called the 'swift agreement', must have sufficient safeguards and guarantees. it therefore agrees with the european parliament's concern to respect the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, in particular article 8, to respect the lisbon treaty and to respect the european convention on human rights. and therefore to respect fundamental principles when transmitting personal data, such as the right to be informed of the person whose data is being processed, or the right to have that data rectified or erased, if necessary, if it is not true. all data protection rights must be guaranteed without discrimination, i.e. citizens of the european union must be treated in the same way as citizens of the united states of america. we believe that there can be an agreement on the duration of the agreement to be signed with the united states, which i hope will be around five years. as regards data exchanged with third countries, we understand that when the us authorities have any reason to believe that there is data which can help authorities in other countries to prosecute terrorist crimes, such data should be used. it is also exactly what european legislation allows. european legislation allows, in similar circumstances, where european member states have had information from other member states, that information to be passed on to third states when it comes to fighting terrorism. there is the issue of the transfer of data, broadly and not always limited to a specific case, which must be maintained for technological reasons and also for reasons of efficiency, since it is often important to have a certain amount of data to draw conclusions from when prosecuting terrorism. but of course, the transfer of data must be as specific as possible, as limited as possible and always with a very clear objective: the prosecution of specific terrorist crimes, which is the objective that explains the existence of this type of agreement. we are therefore faced with a detailed proposal from the commission. i think it is a good proposal, which guarantees the fundamental rights of individuals, which takes account of the effectiveness of these agreements, which is based on reciprocity, which is based on proportionality in the collection of data, which is based, of course, on the control - which is also something to which the commission's recommendation refers - even by the european parliament - which is absolutely associated with this whole negotiation - of the outcome of the effectiveness of these agreements. the european parliament rightly believes that it must also be committed to this agreement and therefore we agree that it should be provided with the appropriate information and that the commission, as the negotiator of this agreement, should provide that information at the negotiation stages. the council also understands that the european parliament should have easier access to the classified parts of international agreements for its assessment when it has a right of approval. and, in its statement of 9 february 2010 - i should remind you - the council undertook to negotiate an interinstitutional agreement with parliament on this matter. i am pleased to confirm that commitment today on behalf of the council.
member of the commission. − mr president, the collection of tftp data is important in the fight against terrorism. we know that tftp data has been helpful to prevent terrorist attacks in europe, like the 2006 liquid bombs at heathrow airport. the tftp is therefore important, not only for the us, but also for europe. i recently met us home secretary napolitano and we addressed this issue. they are fully aware of the need to reform the intermediate agreement that we had but they are also concerned about a number of leads for known terrorists, which are no longer available. so we need to address the security gap but also to do this in a way that ensures full respect of fundamental rights and a sufficient level of data protection. that is why, after our last discussion on this, the commission promptly started to work on a new mandate for a new eu-us tftp agreement. i think the mandate is ambitious but realistic. it balances the maintenance of our collective security, while addressing fundamental rights and data protection, based on parliament’s resolutions of september last year and of february this year. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs hennis-plasschaert, for the very constructive cooperation we have had. the commission has tried to liaise with her and the co-rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs in this matter. i am also grateful to the presidency for the work they have done to try to get this through the council. we have tried to take on board the concerns expressed in the european parliament resolutions. data will be processed only for the purpose of terrorism. a request must be based on judicial authorisation. third parties will not get bulk data. there will be reciprocity. there will be the push basis for transfer, sepa data will be excluded and we will also address the issue of judicial redress on a non-discriminatory basis. i will ensure that the commission will keep parliament fully and immediately informed throughout the process of negotiations. we aim to sign this agreement before the end of june, so that parliament can vote on it in july. on the question of ‘bulk’ data transfer, i know this is of great concern to the european parliament but i also know that you do understand that, without bulk transfers, there will be no tftp. however, legally binding safeguards will ensure that absolutely no data are accessed unless there is an objectively verified reason to believe that an identified person is a terrorist, a suspected terrorist, or is financing terrorism and that those data transfers are anonymous. transfer of bulk data is of course sensitive and we will strive for further reductions in the volume of data during the negotiations. but we also need to be realistic here. we are unlikely to see a huge reduction in what are already targeted requests. reciprocity is part of the mandate. the envisaged agreement would place a legal obligation on the us treasury to share leads with their eu counterparts and allow eu authorities to have tftp searches undertaken against known terrorist suspects in the eu. should the eu develop something similar – an eu tftp – the americans should help us in this as well. the commission is willing to participate in these discussions with member states. the mandate calls for a five-year retention period for non-extracted data. i believe there is some justification in this, bearing in mind that five years is also the period for financial transaction data that banks are subject to under eu anti-money-laundering legislation, but i am ready to hear parliament’s views on this and take this matter to the council by the end of the week. in conclusion, i believe that the draft mandate is a true substantial improvement. it takes into account the concerns of parliament raised in your resolutions. it takes into account the rapporteur’s call for a double-track approach that might lead to an eu tftp, even if this is of course something that we have to discuss internally in the eu. it is not part of the negotiations. it does take account of the eu-us relationship in this area as equal partners, which is, of course, the long-term goal in this regard.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the first thing that should be said is that this parliament wants an agreement. of course this parliament does not want an agreement at any cost, and the devil is in the detail. this is what we shall be discussing today in this chamber. after the vote in february two clear lessons were learnt. the first lesson is that the european parliament has new powers, it has clear powers; it has a say and it wants to exercise those powers. it will do so constructively and responsibly, but it will exercise its powers. the second lesson that has been learnt is that the first agreement was not good enough and it needs to be improved. i very much welcome the commission’s readiness to come out with a mandate, as it did as soon as possible after the vote in february, and i am also very keen to have this mandate approved as soon as possible by the council of ministers. as i said, the european parliament wants an agreement and we have put the details of what we would like in the resolution that has found the broad support of this house, certainly of the leading groups in this house. madam commissioner, bulk data is an issue for us and you will know very well that what we want on bulk data will require a rethink, not just on the part of our counterparts in the us but also on our own part. what exactly do we, here in europe, want for ourselves? do we want our own european tftp, and how will we go about achieving that? clearly, bulk data is an issue and it is an issue that cannot be skirted round. it needs to be faced. next week we shall be facing these details when we discuss them with our counterparts in congress in the us, when a mission from this parliament goes to the us. next week a mission from the european parliament will go to the us and we shall discuss this with our counterparts in congress, but also with the us authorities. we are keen to do that in a constructive manner. we want to go there to show the us authorities that we mean business. we want an agreement, but we have concerns and we want those concerns to be addressed.
i wanted to make three points in summary. firstly, we are still talking about the swift agreement and you told us that there were certain lessons to be learned from it. i think one of these lessons is the very lesson that parliament learns, that if you have more power, you have more responsibility. i think that the strategy adopted by parliament on this pnr agreement is a strategy that shows that parliament too has understood that it has more power and therefore has more responsibility. this is something worth stressing. secondly, is this agreement important or not? in my opinion it is important and very important. because our fight against terrorism is important for the security of our citizens and we have a great responsibility for the security of our citizens. if something goes wrong, the citizens will also turn to us and say: what have you done to safeguard our security? the third point: does this agreement raise questions about data protection and citizens' privacy? and here too, it seems to me that, yes, it raises questions, it raises certain concerns, and we would do well to look at this in detail, and reach an agreement that ensures and safeguards the interests of citizens even where their privacy is concerned. so i think the resolution before us is a good, balanced resolution, which clearly shows parliament what it wants and where it wants to go on this agreement to show everyone that we are exercising our power responsibly. i would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteur for her work on this dossier.
in writing. − this was my own report on the vat rules on invoicing. we were successful in asking that the cash accounting scheme be introduced on a mandatory basis in all member states, thereby giving smes the option of whether or not to use such a scheme. the report has also been successful in reducing unnecessary burdens on business that were found within the commission’s proposal. to this end the report was successful in achieving its aims and i have voted in favour.
in writing. − we must ensure that airport security charges are transparent, objective and based on clear criteria that reflect real costs. any new costs to air travel should acknowledge the importance airports have for the development of regions, especially those which depend heavily on tourism, as well as those that suffer geographical and natural handicaps, such as the outermost regions and islands. airport users, as well as local authorities, should be able to obtain in a timely manner information on how and on what basis the charges are calculated. there should be also a compulsory procedure for consultations between the airport authorities and interested parties or local authorities, whenever there is a need for a revision of the charges. also, any independent supervisory authority should have precise, clearly defined terms of reference, including in particular any powers they may have to take punitive action.
in writing. − the report concerns the financial management of some of the most important funds within the european union. these are inclusive of the european regional development fund, the european social fund and the cohesion fund. after a careful analysis of the proposal for regulation (com(2009)0384) as well as article 161 of the ec treaty in addition to other documents, i was inclined to support the position of the rapporteur and have therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. – i feel that it is not equitable that those countries which have been allocated additional seats in the ep are not yet represented. i am not talking only on behalf of malta which has been allocated the 6th seat but also with regards to all the other countries which found themselves in the same position. it is a fact that there are legal and constitutional constraints to be overcome in order for the new european parliamentarians to take their rightful seats. on the other hand the time which has elapsed from the ep elections of june 2009 illustrates that the eu has become a cumbersome institution which takes months, if not years, to activate parts of the lisbon treaty which was finally approved less than 6 months ago. apart from the deficiency in representation regarding the countries involved, there is another element which i feel requires immediate attention. i am referring to the human element. eighteen prospective parliamentarians must be going through a very difficult period in their life especially from the psychological point of view. i am sure that there isn't one present european parliamentarian who does not understand the plight of these eighteen politicians.
in writing. − this vote concerned the possibility of convening a convention for the revision of the treaties in view of transitional measures to do with the composition of the european parliament. when taking into consideration various factors such as the convention held from 22 february 2002 to 18 june 2003, as well as that which drafted the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, i am in agreement with the view of the rapporteur to support the council’s proposal to amend protocol no 36 through holding an intergovernmental conference rather than convening a convention.
the commission has not yet received any comments. this resettlement programme that is being set up is filling an important gap and it has been necessary for this programme to exist. i would say that i am surprised that such a programme does not yet exist at european level. there are already other countries that can set an example, such as the united states, which has a very good resettlement programme, with a long experience and from which we can learn a lot. programmes of this kind are obviously important because they show that the european union is willing to show a human face to refugees in different parts of the world. but they have another important purpose: at the same time also relieving the pressure on the illegal influx of migrants, including those in need of protection, into the european union. so, for example, if the resettlement programme we are about to launch today could be used to take people from libya seeking international protection, then there is no doubt that these people would have less reason to cross the mediterranean and risk their lives. we are helping them, but we are also helping the european union countries which are currently bearing a disproportionate burden. obviously, this programme should go hand in hand with another programme, which is a programme to help the european union countries themselves which are disproportionately burdened by the current influx of immigration. we also need to show these countries that we are ready to put in place a programme to allow the transfer of people enjoying international protection to other countries of the european union. so far there is only a pilot project, it is a pilot project concerning malta, but i would like this project to become permanent and be opened up to other countries of the european union that also have needs.
in writing. − resettlement of refugees is a process in which it is possible for these individuals to be resettled following a request by the unhcr where it is deemed that there is a need for such individuals to receive international protection. this is one of the eligible criteria under the erf. this process can be an ideal solution for those persons whose safety cannot be adequately guaranteed by nations of first asylum. i am in agreement with the conclusions that have been made by the rapporteur and have therefore decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − prior to the migration to the new sis it is necessary that the appropriate tests be carried out and that the necessary safeguards are in place. while i believe that the above should be carried out in a professional and thorough manner i also share the rapporteur’s disappointment with regards to the extended delays that are impeding migration to the new system.
in writing. − prior to the migration to the new sis it is necessary that the appropriate tests be carried out and that the necessary safeguards are in place. while i believe that the above should be carried out in a professional and thorough manner i also share the rapporteur’s disappointment with regards to the extended delays that are impeding migration to the new system. in addition, i feel that it is necessary for the court of auditors to be asked to take an in depth look into the management of this matter.
mr president. - i have to go. as the commissioner told us we have about 56,000 people waiting for an organ transplant in the european union. many of these cases, as already mentioned, are the difference between life and death and so i think it is important to talk about these developments. however, the measures will not directly increase the amount of organs to be transplanted, but the implementation of common practices within the member countries should increase reliability and trust between the same countries and therefore increase organ donations within a country and also donations from and to other member countries. certain problems mentioned in the report, such as organ trafficking, cannot be addressed directly, but i appreciate the rapporteur's effort to create more awareness in this regard and i would ensure that they are annexed to the final document in a non-binding manner. i would like to conclude by commending both commissioner dalli and the rapporteurs for the valuable work they have done on this sensitive subject.
mr president. - i have to go. i agree with those who say that the european common market, the single market, is probably the greatest project the european union has ever had. i think this project, which is for the benefit of european citizens, is the next big project of the european union. what is interesting is that the single market came in 1992 and that year too we had adopted the maastricht treaty, which introduced the concept of european citizenship for the first time. with this action plan, what we are doing now is creating the space in which this european citizenship can be exercised. there are many areas in which we can exercise this european citizenship: the european union is committed to the protection of human rights, civil rights, access to justice, and the right to free movement within the european union. there are a number of areas where the european union can also set an example, such as, for example, trafficking, the fight against paedophilia, children's rights, cybercrime, and of course immigration and asylum. i think this project, however, needs three things: first, a political stamp that gives it real meaning and importance for citizens; secondly, respect for the principle of subsidiarity because there are certain areas where it is important to remember and not to lose sight of the principle of subsidiarity; and finally, the deadlines: in this action plan there are deadlines that are important to respect otherwise it all ends in nothing.
in writing. − the maltese government is against the recommendation for second reading relating to labelling and standard product information of the consumption of energy and other resources by energy-related products. the reason given is that the nationalist government disagrees with an explanation statement in the report, in particular with the following phrase: ‘construction products with significant impact on the consumption of energy shall be also included in the priority list.’ it is inconceivable that the government does not agree to this recommendation on this basis. it could have agreed with the recommendation and made it clear that it had a reservation in relation to construction products which have a significant impact on the consumption of energy. it is useless for the government to appear to be in favour of energy efficiency when the potential savings could be achieved through the labelling of some of these products given that buildings account for 40% of total energy consumption in the european union.
the rapporteur . - mr president, essentially, my report aims to look at the single market from a macro perspective, taking the single market as a whole project together, and taking into account the 2012 framework, and the 2020 strategy, as well as the recent financial crisis. strategies and lines of action to give new life to the european single market, and to the european economy, should be based on a pragmatic, broad and comprehensive agreement embracing all member states and focusing primarily on those priorities which the member state really makes its own. europe needs to develop strategies for 2020 that help the market to be the key driver for economic regeneration, and at the same time these strategies are accepted by citizens because they go beyond their interests, by consumers because they protect their rights, and by medium and small enterprises because they give them the right incentives. my report proposes a series of strategic, legislative and non-legislative initiatives, aimed at re-generating the single european market and culminating in the creation of the single market act combining immediate action (2012) with the long-term vision of 2020. i also made specific non-legislative proposals on the drawing up of a citizens' charter setting out their rights and what they are entitled to. it is also encouraging to have had positive reactions from commissioners barnier and dalli to my proposals relating to the 20 biggest frustrations - as expressed by european citizens - with the creation of a collective redress mechanism, and with a communication strategy specifically targeted at citizens' everyday problems. we must adopt a genuinely new political thinking, with consumer protection and the social dimension of the citizen as the new foundations on which all european union laws and actions must be designed. only then can we achieve a truly social market economy as enshrined in the lisbon treaty. i am sorry to say that over the years the single market has failed to convince european citizens that it represents their interests and aspirations. more importantly, citizens and consumers are alarmingly feeling increasing uncertainty, and losing confidence in the market. it is crucial to recognise that the traditional definition of the single market, which is linked only to the economic sphere, needs to be updated. a new common approach needs to be developed, taking a holistic approach, fully integrating the concerns of citizens, consumers and smes; by giving them a leading role in relaunching the single european market. any attempt to explain the european single market in any way would be to underestimate the challenges, inconsistencies, interests, divergent views and perplexities we will have to face. the process of integrating the single market is not an irreversible process. the status quo of the single european market should be clarified. the european single market is in danger of becoming very fragile and irrelevant because of the protective attitudes brought about by the crisis. the single market is not an end in itself but an instrument that must contribute significantly to a better quality of life for the european citizen so that, as evelyn gebhart said, 'the single market works for the citizen and not against him'. to ensure a viable and strong single market we need to reconcile what mario monti, in his analytical and stimulating report, called the tensions between market integration and social objectives. in the final analysis, the system that prevails is the one that manages to strike a balance between a vibrant and competitive economy that incentivises innovation and job creation, and one that provides consumer protection and all the social and environmental safeguards required by the citizen in a spirit of cooperation and solidarity . finally, mr president, i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs and all the coordinators for their contributions.
member of the commission. - mr president, i have to say something. i believe that today's debate shows and proves that it can and should make a significant contribution to the development of strategy. i would like to thank mr van nistelrooij and mr cortés lastra in particular for their reports and all those who have worked here intensively, because they will have a very important influence on the design of regional policy and because both reports also stressed the importance of looking at all the regions in europe and that regional policy must be, can be and should be a policy for all the regions. both reports finally demonstrate the positive effects of this measure, and i thank mr cortés lastra in particular for this important contribution and for pointing out what the lisbon strategy was ultimately able to achieve despite all the criticism and that it was not just the idea but the consistent implementation of the earmarking concept that ultimately led to significant effects here, especially in the field of innovation and research. if mrs schroeder meant that this is a drop of wormwood, then it must be said that, of course, one must give a guideline. but the regions, which have local structures and, ultimately, all individual project promoters, have had and will continue to have the opportunity to pursue individual projects and objectives under one roof. but we need prioritization and focus, and that's the idea of earmarking, but with a bottom-up and top-down approach together, you can actually accomplish a lot here. the strategic report on the progress reports of the 27 member states on the implementation of the current programming period, which i recently presented, also shows how sustainable and useful earmarking is, since 63 billion of the 93 billion euros allocated so far have been spent on the lisbon objectives, i.e. on research, innovation and investment in human training, and finally also on transport and infrastructure in the broadest sense. regional policy and this was very well highlighted in the van nistelrooij report is an innovation engine capable of taking things forward, ultimately making and keeping european society globally competitive. it has been demonstrated that 246 of the more than 450 operational programmes alone have a strong focus on research and innovation, thus clearly demonstrating the need for and adherence to priorities such as research and development. it was therefore logical to allocate eur 86 billion to this area in the current programming period alone, three times more than in the 2000-2006 period. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. there is no contradiction between excellence and wide geographical dispersion. what we need to be aiming at is brain circulation and not brain drain from a few or many regions to a few. on the contrary, we must ensure that there is a circulation of knowledge and of the people involved, particularly in the field of research, innovation and development. one of the major objectives must be, in the end, especially as we look to the next programming period, to move from a purely performance oriented approach, i.e. the correct financial management, to a more results oriented approach and approach, and this must be one of the major advances of eu 2020 compared to lisbon, that we are really able to break down european objectives into national, regional and ultimately also local objectives, and thus also to make the strategies tangible, visible and comprehensible. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the end, all regions benefit from successful investment in each region, because we must always remember that two thirds of the european exports of each european member state go to the european union, that is to say to the other 26 countries, so if these countries are doing well, the 27th member state is doing well. this must be an objective, and if we are discussing how to deal with the crisis today, then on the one hand, of course, the budgetary consolidation is an issue, but on the other hand, growth must be an essential element, because only in this way can we successfully overcome the crisis in the long term, and in the end regional policy can make a significant contribution to this.
member of the commission. − mr president, there are five plus two questions put forward concerning economic governance and europe 2020. i will do my best to answer in five minutes, and in order to do that i will use english as opposed to my native language. honourable members, the first question is on how the commission intends to strengthen the monitoring of the broad economic policy guidelines and how the commission intends to ensure an active role of the national parliaments and the european parliament in the multilateral surveillance process. in reply to this first question, i would like to refer to the commission communication on europe 2020, in which the commission proposes that the european parliament should play an important role, not only in its capacity as a co-legislator but also as a driving force for mobilising citizens and the national parliaments. the commission also emphasises the importance of establishing a permanent dialogue between various levels of government, including national, regional and local authorities and national parliaments, as well as social partners and representatives of civil society. the second question concerns the stability and growth pact and the additional instruments the commission may foresee to complement this pact. here i would like to refer to our communication on reinforcing economic policy coordination, which we adopted last week. in this communication the commission set out proposals on reinforcing compliance with the stability and growth pact and deeper fiscal policy coordination. specifically, the commission intends to make budgetary surveillance and policy coordination more forward-looking. in the euro area in particular, a more far-reaching approach to the assessment of budgetary policies seems justified, including a more pervasive review of the weaknesses of national budgetary plans ahead of their adoption. furthermore, in order to provide the right incentives for member states to tackle fiscal imbalances, the functioning of the excessive deficit procedure could be improved by speeding up the individual procedures, in particular with regard to member states in repeated breach of the pact. the commission also proposes to reinforce the macroeconomic prevention framework for euro-area member states by establishing a permanent crisis resolution framework. under the proposed mechanism the eu would be able to issue debt to finance emergency loans to a euro-area member in distress. the third question concerns the differences between two commission papers: on the one hand the communication on public finances in the emu 2006 of june 2006, and on the other hand the 2008 emu 10 report. the policy recommendations that we made in 2006 focused on the changes brought about by the reform of the pact in 2005. the 2008 emu 10 report is consistent with what was written at the time, for instance on the relevance of long-term sustainability, on the need to set incentives in good times and on the positive role of national fiscal frameworks. at the same time, the lessons of more than 10 years of emu and the recent impact of the crisis call for an updated but still consistent assessment. last week’s communication on reinforcing economic policy coordination focuses on making the pact more rigorous with regard to both its preventive and corrective arm. it also makes detailed proposals against the background of the new opportunities provided by the lisbon treaty. we propose reinforcing the stability and growth pact framework, both in its preventive and corrective dimensions; broadening the surveillance of macroeconomic imbalances and competitiveness trends within the euro area; introducing a ‘european semester’ to strengthen ex ante integrated economic policy coordination; and, finally, working towards a robust and permanent crisis resolution mechanism for euro-area member states in fiscal distress. the fourth question refers to the task force established by the european council in march 2010 in order to improve economic governance in the union. the commission will cooperate constructively in the interest of the union and in full respect of its right of initiative. last week’s communication already constitutes a significant contribution to the task force. the european parliament in this context is obviously a very important stakeholder in the eu economic governance reform. through its work and reports in the relevant committees – economic crisis committees in particular – parliament is already providing valuable contributions to the deliberations of the task force. the fifth and final question is about the trust that needs to be rebuilt in european banks and financial markets and in the european project in general. i will just sum this up very quickly, because it is a broad subject. i think there are three important issues to be underlined here: first, the importance of financial regulation to create a much safer financial system; second, to make the fiscal stability rules very clear, transparent and understandable for all; and, third, to restore the growth potential of europe. that is why europe 2020 plays an important role in this context as well. so these elements, in my view, are equally important in restoring trust in the european project. this leads me to the two questions on the europe 2020 strategy. in line with the conclusions of the spring european council, in particular as regards the headline targets for the europe 2020 strategy, the commission has started working with the member states on setting national targets to underpin the headline targets. to facilitate this work, the employment committee indicators group has produced two alternative technical approaches that show what each member state would need to do to ensure the eu meets the 75% target in terms of employment levels. during the last week of april and the first week of may, the commission and the presidency held a round of bilateral discussions to exchange initial ideas on potential national targets for the strategy. these discussions were very fruitful and allowed us to gain a first idea of where member states stand and to understand the very peculiar economic circumstances that are a feature of each member state. the bilateral meetings showed that most member states strongly supported the headline targets and were ready to set ambitious national targets to meet the headline targets set by the spring council. basing itself on the overall outcome of these meetings, the commission will compile the results, which will then serve as an input for the various council configurations in may and june. if there are discrepancies between the eu target and the sum of the national targets, we intend to continue the discussion with the member states to see how national or eu-level action could bring the eu closer to the targets. the european council has said that it will review the headline target in june on the basis of further work. there is particular interest in an explanation on the poverty target, if you will allow me. the spring council asked the commission to help the member states to identify suitable indicators underpinning the eu headline target for social inclusion, in particular through poverty reduction. after hearing the concerns of the various member states, the commission has presented a possible compromise proposal. the proposal is based on three main eu poverty indicators, namely: at risk of poverty; material deprivation; and the number of jobless households. together they reflect the multifaceted nature of poverty and the range of situations in the member states. while a number of delegations have expressed support for the commission proposal within the social protection committee, some insist on including a labour market dimension in the eu target set. the commission is actively exploring the possible solutions. on governance, i wish to reassure you that we set great store by your role in the new strategy and by your input. president barroso has made it clear that involving parliament more closely in europe 2020 is one of his main concerns for his second term. we are doing our best to make sure that parliament has enough time to come to an opinion this year. i am personally fully committed to helping you in the process in every possible way. we need to have all the main eu institutions on board if the political ownership needed is to be there and the strategy is to succeed. concerning education and training, which is the subject of the second question on europe 2020, i would just like to say the following. as early as the crisis recovery plan of november 2008, the commission called on member states to retain investment in education and training, and we will maintain this focus. in general, member states have responded positively to the call to target the recovery measures at smart investment in resources of future growth. many governments have neither reduced student support nor scaled back enrolment. on the contrary, many recovery packages have included measures to support wider participation in education, particularly in higher education. in spite of the crisis, education budgets announced for 2010 have remained constant or increased in many member states. however, we do see signs of planned decreases in the education budgets of other countries. we should bear in mind that some governments had already planned – and in some cases executed – general cuts in public budgets before the onset of the crisis. many such cuts would affect education. other member states are exploring ways to diversify the sources of funding. the commission will continue to watch this issue carefully. in some countries, financial constraints will only appear now. we will monitor general state budgets as well as the efficiency of investment. at european level and within the existing multiannual financial framework, the commission intends to prioritise action supporting the europe 2020 objectives. boosting economic recovery, investing in europe’s youth and building tomorrow’s infrastructure are the priorities of the 2011 draft budget that the commission recently adopted. support for the ‘youth on the move’ flagship initiative means strengthening the ‘lifelong learning’ and ‘youth in action’ programmes as well as the ‘marie curie’ and ‘erasmus for entrepreneurs’ actions. let us not forget that we also intervene in this area through the structural funds. the european social fund, with a budget of eur 76 billion over the 2007-2013 period, helps young people move from education to the world of work. it also helps people to return to education to renew and expand their skills. around one third of the beneficiaries of the european social fund are young people. the fund also allocates eur 8.3 billion, which represents roughly 11% of its overall budget, to the reform of member states’ education and training systems. all of this demonstrates that the europe 2020 strategy reinforces the concept of the knowledge-based economy and that education and training are at the heart of this. we will make sure that we have the resources to reach our targets.
it is worrying that the economic crisis will have long-term social repercussions across europe. with an ageing population, the challenges for member countries to ensure sustainability in the area of social assistance will be ever-growing. while i can understand that public spending must change in order for europe to achieve vision 2020, i also believe that this spending must remain part of national fiscal policy. the low birth rate and an ageing population mean that policy changes are needed to ensure fiscal sustainability, and the increase in demand for pensions and medical aid must also be taken into account. in view of this demographic change, the european union needs a strategy to motivate older people to stay in employment for longer. it is essential to take account of such strategies and specific situations in the various member countries. we cannot have one policy for everyone and each case treated on its merits. for these reasons, it is crucial to have more people employed and to increase high-quality job opportunities. this is not only to reduce dependency on social services but to get more people contributing to these schemes. on the employment and training side, it is essential that the european union focuses on active and inclusive work - that is, that it exploits the full potential of all those who can work, especially women, promotes the integration of those furthest from the world of work and makes all the tools available to make it possible for this to succeed. we need, mr commissioner, to start working now, after we, including you, have been in office for weeks, to really achieve these kinds of goals in order to increase the work in the european union.
mr president, never before has the importance of the long-term sustainability of public finances been brought to the forefront so dramatically. it is easy and natural to say 'i have warned you not to let deficits and debts grow 'unacceptably high', and we are right to say so. but now that many member states of the european union, as well as those in the euro area, have reached this unsustainable situation, it is not the case to simply reverse the situation and do so in the shortest possible time, ignoring the serious economic environment in which we find ourselves. this is not a request to postpone our actions with regard to public finances. none of that. however, calling for random austerity programmes in the member states of the european union, irrespective of their economic circumstances and financial situation, would be condemning the whole european region to a long period of low economic growth, if not worse. we cannot afford to restrain demand, even in countries that have surpluses, both in the internal and external accounts, and that have the means to spend more and not less. we must help the union's weakest countries to stimulate their economies through exports and thus help the prospects for job growth. let us not be domineering. the situation calls for the use of our minds. it also calls for flexibility in many areas, not least in economic policy.
member of the commission. − madam president, this discussion today on the europe 2020 strategy has been extremely interesting and useful for us, the commission, as was this morning’s discussion on economic governance. i would like to thank you for this opportunity and for all the messages you sent on this strategy. on behalf of the european commission, i am particularly grateful to mr van nistelrooij, mr grech, mr cortés lastra and mr hoang ngoc for their reports. i am prepared to continue a discussion on various details and even nuances concerning the europe 2020 strategy. however at this time, let me concentrate my answers on some of the key aspects of the discussion with a few concluding remarks. first of all, i would like to stress once again the importance of the strong involvement of the european parliament in the various upcoming steps linked to the europe 2020 strategy: first of all, the opinion of the european parliament on the integrated guidelines; secondly, at a later stage, the role of the ep as co-legislator on various proposals to be made under the flagship initiatives; and not forgetting, thirdly, the next multiannual financial framework to make sure the future eu budgets better reflect the priorities set for the european union through the europe 2020 strategy. let me also be very clear about the objectives of the strategy. it has a dual objective. first and foremost, it is an essential pillar of the response of the union to the current crisis. it is an essential tool for strengthening coordination of economic policy inside the eu-27 and of course within the euro area. but besides this short-term objective, this new strategy is about equipping europe with a strategy – actually, as michel barnier outlined in his opening statement, a programme for action – to enable the european union to exit the economic crisis by restoring economic growth and making sure this growth translates into more and better jobs. but we must aim for a different kind of job creation than in the past – a more sustainable one, not only in ecological terms but also economically, socially and financially sustainable. it is about restoring a competitive european union capable of ensuring the sustainability of its unique social model – a competitive eu that is a global leader in terms of tackling climate change, an eu that invests more in its people through more and better education and, finally, an eu that strengthens social cohesion by combating poverty. of course, as outlined in the commission’s conclusions during this morning’s debate, this return to strong growth is only possible if we make sure that in the coming years our member states undertake the necessary fiscal consolidation, taking account of their respective starting points, not undermining a fragile recovery, and looking at the expenditure side at the same time as the revenue side. these are all very important elements. i would like to stress once again the importance and the complexity of the fiscal problems that are currently on the agenda. but i would also like to draw your attention to the fact that this financial and economic crisis is much more complex than just speaking about budget deficits. at the root of the crisis you will find a fundamental malfunctioning of the financial sector, starting with the banking sector, the correction of which is also essential if we want to start a sustainable recovery from this situation. we also have to address other causes of the recent recession – like the lack of an industrial policy and, to some extent, the lack of a complete success of our previous strategies – to achieve a knowledge-based economic growth and spread this growth to every region, every corner of the european union. that is why we have to reinforce our efforts in terms of economic governance, reinforce our efforts for financial regulation and also achieve better economic, social and territorial cohesion. altogether i strongly believe that there is no alternative for europe but to launch this strategy and to launch it very quickly. if europe does not restore its growth path, it will decline economically and will therefore also decline politically. while we are discussing this new strategy, most of our main trading partners have not only already put in place 10-year long-term social economic development strategies but they are already implementing them. but, if there is one lesson to be learned from the current economic crisis and from its predecessor, the lisbon strategy – and i agree with mr kelly that often this lisbon strategy is exposed to too harsh a criticism – it is that delivery of reforms is key for success. it is therefore urgent to launch europe 2020 at the june european council and make sure that both the eu and its member states start the implementation immediately thereafter. at this point i would also like to thank the spanish presidency for the efforts it made in bringing together the member states and for supporting this strategy in recent months and, no doubt, in the coming weeks. there can be no delay, considering the current economic situation and the crisis we are currently going through. we owe it to the citizens to provide them with solutions to exit the current crisis and enhance the coordination of economic policies, while at the same time preparing a return to smart, sustainable and inclusive economic growth. by acting together in a coordinated way we will have the necessary weight to be successful on the global stage as well. the commission counts on parliament’s support in making sure the europe 2020 strategy can be launched rapidly and successfully.
the rapporteur . − in the short time i have i would like to address some of the comments made by my colleagues on my report. i agree with malcolm harbour that there seems to be little room for manoeuvre to consider the single market as a fundamental tool in the 2020 strategy - a strategy that is not yet sufficiently focused and developed. i agree that this is a real shame when a single market with a wider and more holistic perspective can be among the first - if not the first - initiative to give the european citizen a better quality of life within the union's strategy. evelyne gebhardt is also right when she says that it is clear today that the single market, within the framework of the 2020 strategy, needs a new momentum that requires strong leadership from all the union institutions, especially from the commission, in order for the single market to regain the credibility and trust of the citizen. i conclude, madam chairman, by saying that we must ensure that the new 2020 agenda does not become too broad and overburdened, leading to everything on the agenda becoming a priority and ending up with nothing implemented, as has happened before.
the proposal before us today is a good one and deserves our support because it gives more rights to citizens of the european union, not less. the european people's party will vote in favour of it, but we will not vote in favour of the amendments that will be made because otherwise we will destroy the delicate compromise that has been reached. i would like to speak about the somewhat ambiguous situation that has arisen between the council and the commission in the presentation of this legislative proposal. in fact, we had not one but two proposals before us. in december last year we had the legislative proposal of the council of ministers and in march this year we had a proposal from the commission on precisely the same subject. the question that has been raised before this parliament is the ambiguous question of what text we are going to work on in this parliament. in fact, i think this is not the first time it has happened and it will continue to happen. in fact, we are currently also looking at another proposal from the council of ministers on the european protection order and here too the european commission has already stated that it wants to come out with its proposal as well. the council on this proposal is telling us to accept its proposal - i am talking about the proposal on the european protection order - while the commission is telling us not to accept it. now it was certainly not the intention of the drafters of the treaty that when they gave the power to the council to submit legislative proposals, ambiguous situations like this should arise, when you have two institutions fighting with each other over which proposal should be accepted. i think that in cases where the commission intends to make a proposal then it should be left to the commission to make it and not to the council to make its proposal. otherwise we end up in situations of clashes, of ambiguity which it is good to avoid.
rapporteur. − madam president, i am pleased to be able to present this report endorsing estonia’s application to join the eurozone. it is very significant that a small, but highly determined, eu member state comes knocking on the eurozone’s door during such difficult times. it says a lot about the country and it says a lot about the euro and the eurozone as well. the reason why estonia should join the eurozone is straightforward. estonia has met the maastricht criteria laid down in the treaties. more importantly, we need to keep in mind that these achievements were reached during the worst global financial, economic and social crisis we have seen in our lifetimes. such achievements, it must be said, are the result of determined, credible and sustained efforts by successive estonian governments and the estonian people. moreover, despite the eurozone’s recent difficulties, public opinion in estonia is strongly in favour of joining the euro. as rapporteur, i have been in constant contact with the commission, the european central bank and the estonian government and visited estonia in the middle of may when the commission and the ecb published their convergence reports. the preparations made by the estonian finance ministry, parliament and statistical office and the central bank are a credit to estonia. i must raise my concern, however, at the extremely short time that parliament is being given to present its report following the publication of these convergence reports. i do not think it is appropriate. as has been stated in the past, it demonstrates a lack of respect for parliament. i admit that there have been some noticeable improvements, as when the central bank and the commission met with the bureau and gave an oral explanation of progress. however, i sincerely hope that this timetable will not be followed next time a country wishes to join the eurozone. although there may be some who say that the eurozone should sort out its problems before taking in new members, in my opinion this would be a short-sighted approach. as members of the eurozone, we are either confident and motivated enough to see our way through the stormy seas the euro is passing through or else we lose our heads in a frenzy and refuse an able and qualified member state which wants to join the euro and is ready to give a helping hand in the time of need. in our battle to restore confidence in the eurozone with measures to improve the sustainability of public finances, through tighter statistical governance, my opinion is that estonia will be a real asset to the eurozone. its prudent approach to public finances meant that, by the end of 2009, it comfortably had a very low – if not the lowest – government budget deficit in the eurozone. meanwhile, despite a massive contraction of the economy by nearly 15% in 2009, the fact that it had rebuilt up large surpluses during the good years has meant that its government debt to gdp ratio is, at 7.2%, easily the lowest in the eu and one of the lowest in the world. put plainly, during the worst economic and social crisis, estonia has kept its house in order. this puts estonia firmly in the group of eurozone countries which are more fiscally disciplined and prepared to take the tough choices to maintain sustainable public finances. it also carries significant political symbolism. estonia’s application to join is a significant symbol to its neighbours that joining the euro should be an attractive option for those countries which prepare themselves well. finally, this is not to say that an easy economic path ahead lies ahead for estonia. unemployment is extremely high, for one thing, and the inflation risk for the future is also not very good. therefore the government needs to maintain vigilance over prices, especially during the changeover period. therefore i commend this report to this house.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their support. let me use this opportunity to inform you of the reasons for the tight timetable for adopting the convergence report to which mr scicluna referred. the cut-off date for the assessment depends on the availability of the forecast data, which itself depends on the date of the validation of the public finance data by eurostat. in fact, to give the european parliament more time, eurostat agreed to advance the validation of the fiscal data. still, the production process of the report by the commission is very tight because we want to ensure a quality product, and squeezing it further would not be feasible without compromising the overall union-wide assessment of all member states, not least as regards the excessive deficit procedures and the overall respect of the stability and growth pact, which is the very foundation of the economic and monetary union. in fact we will use the same raw material tomorrow in the commission when we take decisions on, in total, 16 excessive deficit procedures – 12 existing and four new excessive deficit procedures for the eu member states. so it is indeed an overall europe-wide process and that imposes some limitations on the commission’s work in this regard. in any case, i appreciate your pragmatism and i might say that i met members of the econ committee on 13 april to have an informal advance dialogue on the convergence prospects for estonia. i would also like to add that the commission is ready to inform the parliament at any time regarding the economic and fiscal situation in estonia. it is clear that estonia must stay vigilant to ensure the stability of its public finances and macroeconomic development, and the commission will certainly monitor this very vigilantly. finally, i count on having estonia as an ally in pursuing fiscal discipline in terms of exercising peer pressure in the eurogroup. we need allies to that end, and i count on estonia in that regard. we need to work together in order to ensure the sustainability of public finances and thus sustainable growth and job creation in europe. i think it was mr brons who referred to estonia supposedly losing its recently regained independence and its freedom. maybe i should respond to mr brons by saying that perhaps it would be relevant to mention the reasoning followed by my grandfather when he voted ‘yes’ in the referendum in finland on finland’s eu membership, some 15 years ago. he said to me that he spent five years on the front to defend his country looking to the east, but since then he had always looked to the west.
rapporteur. − madam president, thank you for your explanation, mr rehn. i understand the timetable is such. my concern was that parliament’s role could not be seen as trivialising, which i am sure the commission had borne in mind. to conclude, i would like to thank my fellow shadow rapporteurs for their useful advice and meaningful amendments, which i fully supported and inserted in the report. i would especially mention my fellow mep mr ivar padar, the former estonian minister of finance, as well as the current minister, mr jürgen ligi, for their very frank and open explanations given every time i needed their help. i wish the estonian people well. they have so far succeeded in proving the critics wrong. i now invite them to continue on the spot and keep full vigilance over their economy, especially its competitiveness, to ensure that their success will continue in the future as eurozone members. i therefore commend this report to the house. estonia’s application deserves our support and i hope that, when parliament votes on wednesday, a convincing majority will give the estonians the credit they deserve and demonstrate that the eurozone is very much alive.
the rapporteur . − i would like to address parliament on an important issue which touches the heart of democratic principles, that of freedom of speech. as an mep it is my duty to express my democratic rights under the law by informing my constituents about my parliamentary work through the media including television programmes. the broadcasting authority as a regulator is required by law to ensure political balance in the various programmes as broadcast by the various private television stations taken together. do not require that each programme be balanced in such a way that a person, alone, cannot express his or her opinion on matters of public policy. nevertheless, i was charged three times with breaking the law and the television station was fined for broadcasting my reports from the european parliament on the ridiculous charge of creating an imbalance in my own programme. however, behind this decision lies the misconception that balance is sought not through pluralism and/or the encouragement of different political beliefs to come forward and express different opinions but by stopping those who would do so. many maltese had high aspirations for the european union in terms of values, but were disappointed that censorship is rising in circumstances that are seen as indicating a worrying trend. mr president, i am asking for the protection of parliament against interference with my democratic rights as a european citizen and as an elected member of the european parliament.
i think this parliament agrees that we should give european drivers the best conditions, we should ensure that we have safety on our roads and that we should do our utmost to make sure that when we make regulations on this sector we are careful that european competitiveness is not negatively affected. we disagree about whether or not we should involve the employee loan in this whole arrangement. i think that as far as the employed are concerned we should not have jurisdiction over how we regulate their time. if there is abuse in this sector in relation to loan-employed we should note the abuse and we should not, because of this abuse, call out those honest loan-employed who are doing their best to further improve this sector. i think we have to be very careful where we put bureaucracy because with more bureaucracy it can continue to overwhelm, it can continue to break this sector, especially when we have a crisis that is currently affecting all european sectors in a negative way. and so i congratulate madam bauer on her report and for the compromises she has found and i appeal to everyone to be careful about when we come to regulating the loans employed themselves.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me first thank mr karas, ms bowles and others for raising these very important issues concerning the quality of statistical data and eurostat. let me also welcome the support expressed in your draft opinion for the commission proposal to amend the regulation on the application of the protocol on the excessive deficit procedure (edp). let me point out that this is the very first legislative proposal of mr barroso’s second commission in february. i am glad that it will soon be adopted, i trust, and we will then have it in our arsenal. we needed it a long time ago, as ms bowles said. the original proposal to this effect was made in 2005, but it was then rejected by the member states. times have changed and now we have broad support for this in the council. as regards this proposal, the general approach agreed upon by the ecofin council on 8 june, last week, confirms the importance of ensuring high-quality statistics on government debt and deficit and acknowledges the role of the commission and eurostat for that purpose. the regulation being finalised preserves the main objective of the proposal put forward by the commission, namely granting more audit powers to eurostat when a significant risk or problem with the quality of data has been identified. the commission can, therefore, accept the compromise text. the commission intends to take several further steps with regard to strengthening the quality of european statistics for the edp. there will be an immediate reinforcement of staff resources dealing with this work, mainly by internal redeployment within eurostat. member states will be visited more regularly than at present in the so-called edp dialogue visits. the commission will ensure the integration of more information on source data for compiling statistics into the edp inventories foreseen by the regulation. should there arise an exceptional case where significant risks or problems with respect to the quality of the data have been clearly identified, eurostat will use all the relevant powers at its disposal under the new rules, including of course the audit powers. before concluding, let me say a few words about greece on some topical issues. i wish to use this opportunity and maybe take a minute more of your time. as is well known, the commission has undertaken in-depth work on greek statistics over several years. the amended regulation should in future better mitigate the risk of fraud or manipulation of statistics, or of any other kind of irregularity. yesterday there was a new development concerning greece. you will know that moody’s decided to downgrade greek bonds yesterday. i have discussed this also with my colleague michel barnier and the commission president. i must say that the timing of moody’s decision is both surprising and highly unfortunate, coming after the agreement on a macroeconomic adjustment programme between greece and the commission, the ecb and the imf. the measures taken by the greek government illustrate their commitment to implement the strategy to reform the statistical system, to stabilise their public finances and to restore long-term sustainable economic growth. this decision of moody’s seems inconsistent with the evolution of greek sovereign bond deals and cds spreads, which have narrowed significantly since the agreement on the programme. this again raises issues relating to the role of credit rating agencies in the financial system and prudential regulation. these issues and others will be taken into consideration in the commission’s thinking on the future of credit rating agencies. in particular, the commission will look in the coming months at the issues of the level of competition in this sector – highly concentrated for the time being – as well as at the transparency regarding methodology and the conflict of interests, since the system remains based on the payer-issuer model. let me conclude by saying that it is of absolute importance that we have accurate and reliable statistical data on national accounts. it is one of the cornerstones of a properly and effectively functioning economic and monetary union, as was underlined for instance by mr karas. hence this amendment on eurostat’s powers is part and parcel of reinforcing economic governance in europe, which is indeed a necessary objective.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i am glad that the commission has provided legislative proposals to bolster eurostat that are currently being scrutinised by the econ committee. the quality of statistical governance lies at the heart of the crisis in the eurozone. there is no doubt in my mind that eurostat should have wider powers, in particular to make on-site inspections in member states. but such inspections should not just be with officials from the member state’s finance ministry or with national statistical authorities or even with state-owned corporations: they should include, if the work deems these relevant, academic economists, trade unions, ngos etc. this is something which rating agencies, or even imf delegations, do as a matter of fact. secondly, we must have a common system of accounting – used by all member states, based on a standardised and internationally accepted method of accounting, and agreed between the member states, commission and parliament. this should not apply just to financial reports as provided to the commission but they should also be used in the member states’ public sectors themselves. over a decade after the creation of the eurozone and the introduction of the euro, we have discovered basic flaws in the system that are causing damage. these flaws we ignored, ironically, because of the false sense of security created by a successful euro. we must ensure that in the future markets trust governments’ economic forecasts and statistics. we must correct these flaws, and fast. i therefore urge the commission to continue to work closely with parliament and council to resolve these problems as a matter of urgency.
in writing. − the egf was created in order to aid those workers who have been negatively affected by globalisation. the commission has adopted proposals to access the fund in order to help ireland and spain. i would like to point out that genuine cases in which these funds are needed are generally extremely urgent, and hence the procedure of allowing access to such funds should be as efficient and rapid as possible. in this regard i have agreed with the conclusions that have been reached by our rapporteur and have thus voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − there are many funds in the eu that are made available to citizens as well as other entities. many complain that the procedures for gaining access to such funds are complicated and excessively bureaucratic. there should be clearer information regarding the procedures associated with such funds and greater transparency with regard to how these funds are spent. i am in agreement with the conclusions reached by the rapporteur and have hence decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − following numerous years of instability in ireland, a fund referred to as the ifi was set up for the purpose of ensuring economic and financial stability in the region. we have seen that the report looks into the plans for the fund in the future and establishes some key goals that need to be tackled. i agree with the conclusions reached by the rapporteur and hence decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted against this report due to the controversial wording of paragraph 42 concerning abortion. i am morally opposed to abortion and cannot accept such a clause. nevertheless, i must also state that i feel that the rapporteur has done an excellent job on all other issues.
mr president, the recent attack by european leaders on credit rating agencies, regarding the timing and degree of downgrades being meted out to countries’ sovereign debts, may be seen by some as somewhat exaggerated. however, the failures of credit rating agencies are now well known – i think there is general agreement from all sides of parliament on this. they have given high ratings to bonds that subsequently defaulted. now that the tide has turned, and the economic outlook across europe remains bleak, they are guilty of overreacting in the opposite direction. not even an impressive and unprecedented eur 750 billion package seemed to convince them. having said that, we have to be careful when reacting to this, and not appearing to shoot the messenger just because he brings bad news. one thing is for sure: whether they overrate or underrate a financial product, the influence of the rating agencies on global financial markets is enormous. in effect, they can and do hold a country and its people to ransom, including workers and pensioners. this cannot but have political implications, which need to be addressed. we need to understand how rating agencies create and sell their ratings. the arrangement between the security issuer and the agencies is an obvious problem. secondly, there is the question of the number of agencies themselves and the degree of effective competition between them. if banks and financial institutions are to be regulated, as they must be, why should rating agencies be treated any differently, especially given the oligopolistic structure of the rating agency market? the causes of the problem, including the conflicts of interest, are therefore clear. the solutions, however, appear less straightforward, so let us keep level-headed and find the right solution, being careful not to overreact with serious consequences.
madam president, we have seen a great deal of turbulence in the european markets in the last number of years, with many having suffered great losses. so, we must ensure that investors, especially retail investors, receive adequate protection within the european union. investors should be able to gain the information necessary to make informed decisions. having a well-structured framework in place also makes the european market more secure and, therefore, attractive to serious investors. the prospective directive has been fundamental in setting industry standards across the european union, as has been the case with the ucits directive. technical legislation that regulates this dynamic industry should frequently be reviewed, fine-tuned and updated so as to ensure that it remains relevant and current. i agree that certain provisions within the directive were unnecessary and a number of obligations to which organisations must comply should be removed. the benefits that they give to the investor are negligible, while they place a significant burden on the business itself. the streamlining of definitions to avoid problems of interpretation in different member states will also further streamline the sector. finally, i would like to congratulate our rapporteur, mr klinz, for his excellent work. i would also like to congratulate all the shadow rapporteurs. i believe that this report is well-balanced and proportionate.
in writing. – before the final adoption of the eu 2020 strategy, the european council should strengthen the structure of the eu 2020 and define a clear set of political priorities, realistic targets and deadlines that ensure the achievement of a green, knowledge-based, and social market economy in europe by 2020. the new strategy should be a reflection of the current economic situation, a reproduction of the lessons learned from the lisbon strategy, and seeeking to achieve sustainable growth and prosperity for all european citizens. one of the main flagship initiatives of the eu 2020 strategy should be the single european market, with the challenges of social justice, economic growth and a focus on benefits to citizens, consumer protection and smes. the single market should be the main catalyst in the economic recovery and at the same time would have to be accepted by citizens as championing their interests, by consumers as protecting their rights and by smes as giving them the right incentives. we need a new holistic and common approach, one which fully integrates citizens’ and consumers' concerns, by giving them the opportunity to maximise their potential and to make full use of the benefits of a sustainable european union.
thank you mr president. i too would like to join my colleagues in condemning the attacks on the gaza flotilla. mr president, these were the result of disproportionate actions and flagrant violations of international law by israel. these actions resulted in a tragedy in which a considerable number of people lost their lives. of course, none of those who have always sought moderation on this issue have ever denied israel's right to protect and defend its citizens from indiscriminate attacks. but, at the same time, this attitude of israel, which considers that it has a special license to break the law and to kill whomever and however many it wants at any time it wants, is an attitude that cannot be tolerated. i therefore join those who insist on an impartial inquiry to reflect the facts as they happened and thus to take responsibility for what has been done. thank you very much.
i would also like to begin by congratulating my colleague, mr iturgaiz, on his report. its report is important because it comes from an important committee and the committee on petitions is important because it is the bridge between us and the european citizens. the beauty of the committee is that it not only gives citizens a voice, but perhaps more importantly, ensures that citizens are heard. there are few places where citizens feel they are really being heard, and this committee is certainly that place. i would like to refer to a report i prepared at the end of 2008 on behalf of this committee on petitions on misleading commercial directories: commercial directories that lead citizens and even small businesses to advertise without realising that it is in fact paid advertising. this is an issue that affects many thousands of citizens and in particular small businesses. even entities such as associations, such as schools, such as libraries, which are not even businesses fall victim to these commercial directories. i have asked the commission in this report to make a legislative proposal to solve this issue once and for all. unfortunately, this has not yet happened, and i will continue to insist that it does. i therefore ask the commissioner to take note of this because we feel that it is very important.
mr president, i am a law-abiding citizen and i want my security to be protected without excessive intrusion into my privacy. but, equally, i want my privacy to be respected without this having to be done at the expense of my security. with this agreement we have done just this. we have shown that privacy and security do not need to be played off against each other. we have shown that we can have them both. we have shown that we can strike a fair balance. this is not a zero-sum game. i believe that this is precisely the kind of balance that our law-abiding citizens expect from us. this is why we should support this agreement, and we should be proud to support it because we have played a major role in shaping it.
in writing. − the concerns with the report voted are the following: – the widening of the scope of the regulation to also cover small boats would impose additional burdens on small boat operators and in many cases it would not be possible for them to comply with the requirements of the regulation; – in several of the amendments responsibilities of compliance are addressed to the port authorities. when passenger terminals are privatised, as in the case of malta, such responsibilities should rest on the port terminals and not on the port authorities; – the compensation levels are very often considered to be too high, while the delay periods proposed in the report are considered to be too restrictive when one considers that shipping is much more dependent on weather conditions than other modes of transport in meeting departure and arrival times; – the proposed timeframe for implementation of twelve months is too short; a period of twenty-four to thirty-six months is more appropriate.
in writing. − one major problem aviation has in reducing co2 emissions is that it has a very limited abatement potential, even though one is here talking of 2% of the man-made emissions ( these are 3% of all emissions given that nature emits 97%). the only areas where it can reduce co2 are through: better technology – the latest are already employed; operational procedures – the price of fuel made sure that they were introduced; single european sky – this depends on governments and is a debate which started 40 years ago: the only thing we got last april was a single empty sky with the volcanic ash crisis, an act of god for which airlines have had to foot the bill; and biofuels – unless there is serious government/eu investment, these will never see the light of day in commercial quantities. the eu airline industry is already in dire straits. what is being suggested in the report does not bode well for a sustainable future for transport, particularly if one intends to guarantee the freedom of movement enshrined in the treaty for those people like the maltese not having access to an alternative mode of transport to reach the rest of the eu and other parts of the world.
madam president, firstly i would like to congratulate all rapporteurs on their work on this package of highly significant reforms. this overhaul of the eu’s financial architecture has been a huge undertaking for the committee on economic and monetary affairs and has dominated much of my first year as an mep. i am glad that it appears that we are close to agreement. a proper functioning of union and global financial systems and the mitigation of threats requires better consistency between macro- and micro-supervision. in retrospect, it seems astonishing that we did not have a single eu-wide macroprudential body doing just this. our financial markets for countries both inside and outside the eurozone are so closely integrated that an oversight body looking at market trends, asset bubbles, future causes of systemic risks and imbalances would perhaps have led to a faster, more coordinated response to the crisis. the crisis has demonstrated many things: that our regulatory framework was not robust enough; that markets do not always self-correct; and worse, that they were exposed to unmonitored systemic risks. i welcome in particular the establishment of the european systemic risk board, a body designed to act as a watchdog giving an early warning of systemic risks or imbalances. in this regard, the most immediate priority is to provide a qualitative definition of systemic risk to enable effective functioning. the recent development that stress tests are to be published for some of the largest banks in the eu is welcome. i hope the commission will follow this example, by likewise carrying out and publishing stress tests for public finances of all member states on a regular basis. in conclusion, parliament has put in an enormous effort and showed political will to compromise and agree this package of reforms before the recess, but we should take heart that the deal is within sight and we can still have these reforms in place before january 2011.
in writing. – it is important to prepare well for this crucial conference especially with a view to how to reduce the enormous cost of pills administered to affected parties. in malta the importers of medicinal products and the nationalist parliamentary secretary have agreed to reduce the price of 63 medicinal products. it is astounding when there are over 3 000 medicinal products that are distributed in malta. this means that only 2% have actually been targeted. amongst the medicines which have been reduced in price two were taken as examples forwarded to the commission comparing the exorbitant prices in malta and belgium. zocor 20mg has been reduced, but it is still 240% more expensive in malta than it is in belgium. from the other examples provided all remain more expensive in malta the highest being tegretol 200 mg, which is 150% higher in price, and lexotan 3 mg – 113% higher. the lowest is actonel 35, which is 20 % higher in malta. the fact that medicines have started to decrease in price, although not enough, only illustrates how right we have been not to accept the excuses put forward by a number of medicine providers. let us hope that this is only the beginning in achieving our aim.
in writing. − the maltese labour delegation voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the eu response to hiv/aids, especially since it addresses fundamental issues and priorities relating to a global and tragic problem affecting – to a very large extent – the lives of many people, especially women and children in poverty-stricken regions like sub-saharan africa, which has 22.4 million people living with hiv/aids. although – prima facie – it seems that there is no direct reference to the promotion of abortion in the resolution, my delegation does not support clauses which might condone abortion.
in writing. – the egaf is a necessary tool to counter the trend of eu citizens loosing their jobs due to globalization and the financial crisis. i further support the view that the fund in its current form has still room for improvement. although progress has been made since its inception to speed up and simplify the application procedure, i think that the severity of the financial crisis demands that we do more to optimize its functioning in order to achieve the goals for which it was created. those who are truly in need of these funds should be able to get them in a timely manner to minimize the many negative effects of long-term unemployment. thus, i urge the commission to look into the possibility to allow the application procedure to start as soon as plans for redundancies are announced, as opposed to when they are in effect, as it is currently. i would like however, to know more details about the implementation of the programme and especially its long-term effects. a priori the programme demonstrates the fund's benefits versus costs; therefore, i support the proposal to make the egaf an independent fund with its own payment and commitment appropriations under the new mff.
in writing. − i am happy to support this report. it is important that the economic and social crisis does not deter member states from moving towards a more sustainable, low-carbon, resource-efficient economy. this will make our economies more resilient, competitive and less dependent on increasingly expensive imports. the commission should place special emphasis on green jobs, especially since the oecd has demonstrated that the environmental goods and services sector has the potential to provide jobs for a wide range of skills and abilities, including low-skilled workers. i would also like to see member states establish funding systems and fiscal incentives to steer smes towards green employment policies. while a new european employment strategy will define ‘green jobs’ in broad terms, distinctions should be made between the likes of pollution control, recycling, water resource management, nature conservation, the production of environmental and renewable energy technologies, and environmental r&d. a ‘green’ economy has the potential to deliver economic growth and tackle the increasing job insecurity that has developed in the eu in recent decades, particularly amongst young people. to achieve this we need appropriate training and education programmes. only then will we be able to develop the job potential of a new sustainable economy.
there is no doubt that the poor situation in which many of the roma community live is a very embarrassing situation for europe. many of these people live in poverty and we need to get them out of it today before tomorrow. but if there is anything more embarrassing than this is the political manipulation and political opportunism of those who have turned this issue into a shameless political game. i think that's what's scandalous and embarrassing for europe as well, because this kind of political manipulation has shaped the whole issue. and the real issue is this: is the situation of the roma community and how we will help them to get out of their situation. and so the group of the european people's party is working hard to see that there is an effective strategy to help these people, to bring together the institutions with the member states and to involve the roma themselves directly. there is also the law on freedom of movement. this law gives both rights and obligations, and it is important that we fully apply both rights and obligations and obligations also mean that if someone breaks the law, they may end up being expelled. if we, especially we from the mainstream parties, do not apply this law in accordance with human rights then the people, the voters, will put extremist parties, populist parties, in power and ask them to apply it.
i think that freedom of expression and the protection of media freedom in the countries of the european union are certainly not perfect and if each of them looks at their own country, they will surely find some things that they can, why not, object to. but to say that there is a flagrant breach of freedom of expression in the countries of the european union, i think we are going too far in this debate. i would remind you that last october we had a debate and a resolution in this parliament, resolutions in this parliament, which did not pass the vote of this parliament that their intention was ultimately to condemn a particular government of the european union, which in this case was the italian government. and i think the message from this house in not passing these resolutions was clear: the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the future of the european union. it is simple; i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. and so i think that if we get into things that we don't have the competence to get into, we are diminishing and not increasing the respect that citizens, that our voters, have for us. i think i therefore very much appreciate the clear way in which the commission has spoken today where it has said without any doubt that it has no evidence that can suggest that there are cases of breaches of freedoms of expression or media freedom in any european union country and i think that such a clear statement should close the debate.
in writing. – improvements to the current system of pharmacovigilance are necessary to have a system which operates quickly and efficiently in order to better protect consumers. the monitoring of the safety of medicines can be crucial to save lives and prevent public health crises. further integration of pharmacovigilance at the european level is necessary because it increases the number of consumers reporting incidents of adverse drug reactions (adrs). by increasing the pool of reported adrs patterns they can be assessed more quickly thus allowing for drugs with adverse side-effects to be withdrawn from the market or warnings added to the medicines. i support the amendments that seek to further protect consumers by allowing public and healthcare professionals full access to the central european eudravigilance database. this allows all member states to have access to the same information regarding adrs. i agree to exclude pharmaceutical companies from the process of pharmacovigilance. in view of the facts, taking the pharmaceutical companies out of the process allows for more honest reporting of adrs by removing the conflict of interest inherent in the process of self regulation.
in writing. – i am delighted to see the parliament and commission debating the question of mountain regions and islands. as a maltese member, representing two islands, malta and gozo, each having fewer than 500,000 citizens, this is an issue that is inevitably close to my heart. there can be no doubt that islands and small regions deserve to be treated at eu level according to their specific needs. for example, there are significant economic disparities between the island of gozo and the rest of malta, with malta's office of national statistics showing that gozo's gdp per capita is now under 75% that of malta. in such cases, the commission should grant special recognition and eligibility to aspects of eu regional policy, other than funding which too has not materialised, for gozo. of course, mountain regions, islands and sparsely populated areas in the eu share common features that differentiate them from other regions. they tend to suffer from poor transport links leading to a lack of employment opportunities and accessibility. statistically they are also more likely to be poorer than the rest of their member state. we cannot afford to ignore them.
mr president, i would like to congratulate all the rapporteurs on their work on this package of highly significant reforms to the supervision of europe’s financial sector. this overhaul of the eu’s financial architecture has been a huge undertaking for the committee on economic and monetary affairs. the crisis has demonstrated that our regulatory framework was not robust enough, that markets do not always self-correct and, worse, that they were exposed to unmonitored systemic risks. i am particularly happy to see the establishment of the european systemic risk board, whose mandate is to act as an early warning against systemic risks or imbalances. with regard to the esas, i am satisfied that a balance has been found that does not weaken the role of member states. we must now ensure that the three institutions have the staffing and resources they need to be able to do the job properly. in conclusion, parliament has put enormous effort and political will into a compromise with the council to ensure that this urgently needed package of reforms has now been agreed and should be in place in early 2011.
as an mep representing the islands of malta and gozo this subject is very close to my heart. starting with gozo, it is unfortunate that during malta's negotiations for accession to the european union, the maltese government had included declaration 36 which aimed to safeguard the future of gozo, but the funds specifically for this island were never provided. but the gozitan people should be protected by this resolution which calls for a european framework for mountain regions and islands; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's policy on the environment and sustainable development. in particular, this resolution calls on the commission and the member states to ensure that the islands benefit from specific funds in a new financial framework for the 2014-2020 cycle. above all, mountain and island regions in the union have common features that are not like those of other regions sometimes in the same state. the commission is also pleased that the resolution calls for union programmes and policies that are adapted to islands to become competitive and adjust to the challenges they face. i am also pleased that this resolution says that the member states including malta and cyprus which are at the bottom of europe deserve regional programmes for their development. this resolution is making a declaration of intent to protect the interests of the member states, particularly an island like gozo. i am therefore supporting this resolution.
in writing. − due the potential far-reaching consequences of the proposal in question and the need for further thought to be given to the efsm, i am in agreement with the conclusions that have been reached by the rapporteur. i have thus decided to vote in favour of this interim report.
in writing. − the rapporteur has welcomed the commission proposal concerning making the necessary modifications so as to facilitate vat refunds in situations where some of the parties involved in the transactions in question are located outside the eu. i feel that this was a necessary and positive step and thus have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − this new esa will now form part of the european supervisory structure for financial supervision. more specifically it will be responsible for the micro-prudential oversight of specific institutions. esma will play a particularly important role in the regulation and supervision of credit rating agencies. i am very pleased with what has been achieved by the econ committee in this regard. i have voted in favour of the report as drafted by the rapporteur.
i come from one of those countries that recently got their visa waiver for traveling to the united states. and just a short time after the visa was lifted on this number of countries, we are now seeing another visa, under a different name, being introduced from the united states. a visa under the name of esta where people are still being asked to pay, this time they're paying, first they told us ten dollars, now they tell us fourteen dollars, but there's no guarantee that this amount will continue to increase. and this is not acceptable, because this is another visa and i hope that the european commission realizes that this is another visa and treats it as such. but there is a second reason why this decision, and this development was negative, because it came at a very bad time. it came at a time when we had just voted in this house on a swift agreement where we extended our hand of cooperation to the united states, and i think that the reaction of the united states shortly after our vote in favour of the swift agreement, instead of being positive, with this arrangement, with this fee, was very negative. i would remind you that there are a number of other highly sensitive subjects, such as the pnr and the general data protection agreement, which are still before this house. i think it is important that the work between us and the united states is built on trust because if it is not built on trust we cannot achieve satisfactory and positive results for the citizens of both sides.
in writing. − the egf is a crucial fund in the eu, the scope of which has been widened in order to provide support for those who have been made redundant as a result of the crisis. it is imperative that these funds are made available to those who really need them in an expedient and effective manner. for this reason i have agreed with the rapporteur and have voted in favour of these reports.
in writing. − the maltese labour delegation voted in favour of the report on health care systems in sub-saharan africa and global health, which promotes fundamental issues and priorities to achieve the millennium development goals and halve extreme poverty by 2015. we also condemn the fact that in some areas women are still subject to genital mutilation, violence and rape. we also fully agree with issues addressed in this report, especially the most pressing health problems in sub-saharan africa and the general question of how to improve health care service provisions and social insurance schemes there. however my delegation is not in agreement with the reference to the promotion of abortion in paragraph 6 of the report.
in writing. − this report deals with a number of issues. nevertheless of great concern is paragraph 6 which deals with abortion. i am against abortion and can not support a dossier that promotes these practices. this is why i have decided to vote against the report as amended.
as already mentioned, poverty is a subject that is very high on our agenda. we all know the figures, the percentages, the rhetoric on this subject; the fact that such a large number of citizens are living below the poverty line is a serious fact that should be addressed immediately. it is a wonderful way of fighting poverty by creating more jobs and by encouraging and supporting structures that help us to achieve this. this includes a plan to enable european citizens to receive adequate training that can lead to gainful employment. we also need to have the necessary funds to help these lagging countries to meet these objectives too. and so it is very clear that we want to encourage as many people as possible to go into the world of work, particularly women and this report does a good job of assessing this situation and i would like to thank and assure the rapporteur for her very useful work. however, we must be careful not to rush too far because the provisions in the treaties concerning the principle of subsidiarity must continue to be respected. this is as in the case of the minimum wage which i believe should continue to be regulated by domestic policy. having all of europe in one place is not a practical solution. moreover, we do not yet have the necessary legality required by our treaties. and so member countries should be free to regulate these needs according to their own needs without interference.
in writing. − this concerns the collection and registration of data when it comes to shipping applicable in the member states that have a coast. the proposal will alter the way that data is collected in that it will be organised by the type of goods, as is already the case with regards to other forms of transport. i believe that this is a positive development and have had no qualms in supporting the rapporteur.
in writing. − the egaf is an important structural fund in the eu that enables us to aid workers that have been rendered unemployed as a result of the shifts in global trends. this has been the case in a number of eu member states such as spain where the existence of the fund has proved to be particularly beneficial. in view of the above i am in agreement with the decisions that have been established by the rapporteur and have decided to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. − the egaf is an important structural fund in the eu that enables us to aid workers that have been rendered unemployed as a result of the shifts in global trends. it has become necessary to grant access to this fund to workers in the netherlands that have suffered redundancies in the electronics sector. in view of this i am in agreement with the decisions that have been established by the rapporteur and have decided to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. − the egaf is an important structural fund in the eu that enables us to aid workers that have been rendered unemployed as a result of the shifts in global trends. in order for this fund to be effective it is crucial that access be given to this fund when it is needed and in a timely and efficient manner. for these reasons i must support the rapporteur in her conclusions and have decided to vote in favour of the report.
president of the council. - mr president, mr president of the commission, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the council, i should like to thank you, mr president, for the opportunity to discuss the preparatory work being done in the council for the next european council. this european council will have a busy agenda, the focus of which will undoubtedly be economic governance. as you know, the task force chaired by president van rompuy met on monday and approved its final report. this report contains recommendations, important concrete proposals which should enable us to make a qualitative leap in european economic governance. in particular, its recommendations aim to improve fiscal discipline, broaden economic surveillance, deepen and broaden coordination, strengthen the crisis management framework and strengthen institutions. all these recommendations can be implemented rapidly by legislation. we hope that the european council will of course be able to endorse them so that the commission, parliament and the council can make rapid progress on these very important matters. it would in any case send a positive signal that we intend to take action to meet the important economic challenge we are facing. it is true that some have raised the question of other options going beyond these recommendations and beyond the framework of the treaties. these are issues such as the suspension of the right to vote or the introduction of new voting rules such as the reversed majority. these are obviously not easy questions, either technically or politically. they will be discussed, addressed at the european council next week. another major item on the european council's agenda concerns the preparation of the g20 summit. the european council will have to define the union's position on the basis of the preparatory work carried out yesterday by the ecofin council. overall, it is important that seoul accelerate efforts to implement the framework to promote stronger, sustainable and balanced growth. in particular, the major global economic imbalances that pose a risk to growth must be addressed. since 2008, with the crisis and the response, that is, since the g20 finally came into power, things have changed dramatically. the reason is very simple: relevance. the very nature of many decisions which have direct consequences for our fellow citizens has shifted in the space of a few months from the local, or even national, to the international level. globalisation now requires us to act simultaneously at european and international level on most issues. we all know that it took the european union some time to reach agreement on a new treaty which was also supposed to strengthen the union's role on the international stage. it took us literally the last 10 years to get it, but it took us the last 10 months to realize how important it is. the g20 has shown some success since its inception, but i believe that the most difficult test, the most important test, is that which awaits it in the coming weeks, in the coming months, when we will be called upon to face the serious risk of losing what in english is called momentum. the european union is preparing for two important meetings, both in korea, the first in two days. this is the g20 finance ministers and central bank governors meeting, and the second, the g20 summit in mid-november. in terms of substance, the union contribution is strong, sustainable and balanced growth based on: (1) growth-friendly and differentiated fiscal consolidation plans; (2) the europe 2020 strategy for the structural reforms needed to support, in particular, job creation; (3) the financial sector and markets reform agenda; (4) the strengthening of the union's economic governance. on this last point, we could present the results of the task force at the november summit, once they have been adopted by the european council. i would add that the european union is very interested in the peer review process within the g20. as europeans we are used to this and we know how interesting and useful this kind of exercise can be. clearly, everyone must do their part and show a genuine willingness to contribute to the framework for growth. the battle against protectionism cannot be won once and for all but by maintaining a certain level of global alertness, day after day. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial stability is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the europeans are prepared to maintain the commitments already made in the past, notably in pittsburgh last year, to ensure that the new imf is more representative of the new international economic reality and, therefore, that there is no longer a role and a path for emerging economies. but i want to be clear about this: europe cannot be expected to make all the concessions on this alone. all the advanced countries must contribute. we have already made known our concrete availability in terms of representation, governance and quota. we believe that this is a good basis for reaching a compromise. so let no one say that europe is to blame for the lack of progress in this area. we as the union have negotiated among ourselves on all this and on a number of key issues, terms of reference for the g20 finance ministers meeting later this week, to ensure that europeans not only speak with one voice but also focus on defending and promoting what is in their best interests. the presidency and the commission will do everything in their power and capacity to defend and support these interests as set out in our common position, which is the result of months of work by all the member states. the aim is not to have a thorough discussion of the climate at the european council, since the environment council adopted a very comprehensive text of conclusions setting out the european position on 14 october. progress towards an ambitious post-2012 climate change regime is becoming ever more urgent and to this end the european union continues to advocate a step-by-step approach that builds on the kyoto protocol and the outcomes of the copenhagen conference and paves the way for a comprehensive, legally binding global framework, taking into account the policy guidelines set out in the copenhagen outcome document. the cancun conference must reach a balanced outcome that addresses the concerns of the parties and allows the recording of progress made to date. the union has expressed its preference for a single legally binding instrument which would encompass the main elements of the kyoto protocol. however, it could consider a second commitment period under the kyoto protocol under several conditions. this should be done within the framework of a broader arrangement to which all major economies would subscribe, which would reflect the ambition, the effectiveness of international action and respond to the need to ensure environmental integrity as a matter of urgency. i would like to speak briefly about the preparation of the european union's position for the summits with the united states, russia and ukraine. this will be the first time that the preparation of summits with the union's key partners will be discussed at the level of heads of state or government, in line with the conclusions of the european council of 16 september. the idea is that the heads of state and government can have an open debate on the main issues of our relations with our partners. without wishing to prejudge the debate, let me speak briefly about the key issues of the forthcoming summits. it will surely be important to focus the summit with the united states on a few key issues. in general, it should mark a strengthening of transatlantic cooperation, which is a fundamental vehicle for the development of effective solutions to the common challenges we face. the europe-us summit, which will follow the g20 summit, will therefore be an important opportunity to take stock of these results and develop a common approach to a number of current economic issues. we should also seek to develop a common approach to emerging economies. the summit should also, we hope, help to revive the transatlantic economic council as an economic forum that goes far beyond purely regulatory issues. the council could usefully consider how to respond to the crisis and promote growth, employment, on the basis of a strengthened mandate. we also intend to use the summit to prepare cancun, and we are naturally expecting a very positive signal from our american partners. finally, important foreign policy issues will also be on the agenda, particularly with regard to sudan and iran. as regards the summit with ukraine, there is another debate this afternoon with the high representative, and you will allow me to refrain from saying much more this morning. at the summit with russia, the european union intends to express its full support for the partnership for modernisation which will strengthen our cooperation in all areas, including key areas such as innovation and energy. that, mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, is the main item on the agenda for next week's european council, a very busy and important agenda.
president of the commission. − mr president, today we are debating first of all the issues that will be addressed next week by the european council. i will concentrate on what i believe are the most important topics: economic governance in the european union, of course, and externally – apart from the very important summit with the us and also the summit with russia – what i believe are the critical summits: the summit in seoul of the g20 and also the cancún conference on climate change. the reform of our economic governance is a cornerstone of our sustainable recovery and our credibility. this is why the commission has taken a very ambitious approach since the beginning of these discussions. the proposals submitted by the commission last month seek to translate the urgency deriving from the crisis into an ambitious legal reality. they tackle the key issues of giving the european union real clout in economic policy through adequate coordinated fiscal surveillance and addressing macro-economic imbalances, so, as we have very often said, now creating a real economic union in europe. i very much welcome the attention that this parliament is paying to these proposals. an early first reading agreement would prove that the european union is committed to putting its new vision into action. we should look to have these rules in place by the middle of next year. i therefore urge member states to go all the way towards these important goals and to pursue this agenda as a matter of urgency. we have by now moved towards a stronger consensus on key areas for action, reinforcing the stability and growth pact and dealing with macro-economic imbalances, thanks also to the proceedings of the task force under the presidency of herman van rompuy. once all discussions are finished and all decisions are taken, the result of this combined process should be a vision for economic governance which will be much more comprehensive, much more attuned to the need to prevent problems in the first place, and much more solidly based through the use of sanctions. but let me be clear. the overall result must represent a real change from the current situation. we must show to our citizens that the european union has been drawing all the conclusions and the lessons from the crisis. some other matters still need to be settled. one issue of particular importance is how to replace the current crisis mechanism agreed in may with a mechanism of a more permanent nature once it comes to its end in 2013. we will do everything to avoid facing such crises ever again, but we will also do all we can to be better prepared for critical developments than we were last time. preparedness and the presence of a robust and permanent crisis mechanism can prevent such developments from arising in the future. the commission takes good note of the views expressed by member states that favour a treaty change, for which, as everyone knows, the unanimity of member states is required. at this stage, the commission will concentrate on the substance. by this, we mean the design of a permanent mechanism that can provide defence in critical moments, whilst minimising moral hazard and making sure that such an instrument will only be used as a last resort in the common interest. if and when realised in full, the result of all this work will be what we need: a system that provides incentives for member states to conduct sound economic and fiscal policies, and a system that provides incentives for investors to observe responsible lending practices. overall, i believe we are on track. we have been learning lessons from the crisis. for the sake of its citizens, the european union is putting in place a system of governance that is completely renewed when compared with the state of play before the crisis, and now we are putting all this system on a much sounder footing. our track record on economic governance, but also on europe 2020 and financial regulation, will give us the right platform to go forward to the g20 in seoul. this summit comes at a critical time. it will be a real test of whether the g20 can deliver the coordination the world economy needs through cooperative solutions at global level. i believe it can, and i believe that the european union will play a key role in making seoul a success. what do we want to achieve in seoul? first we need to remind ourselves that the g20 did play an important role in addressing the crisis. it did so through acting collectively, and as we move into a new phase we need to continue to act collectively, cooperatively. that means accepting that global imbalances are a concern for all and that all major economies play a part in finding the solution. and yes, we cannot ignore the reality that exchange rates are an important factor here. second, we need to see action on the international financial institutions as well. imf reform in particular is overdue. we need others to match the flexibility the european union has already shown. third, with the support of this parliament, we are in the midst of a fundamental reform of our own financial system, and once again i want to thank you for the emphasis you have put on the need to achieve this as soon as possible. we need to keep up the momentum on the g20 as well. progress has been good, but now we have to be sure that it carries through into implementation. i want the financial sector to play a part in this. that is why the european union should remain committed to push for a financial transaction tax at global level. in the meantime, the commission wants to explore other ways of ensuring that the financial sector makes an equitable contribution at european level, such as the financial activities tax. the next g20 will also include development as an agenda item for the first time. a multi-year action plan will be adopted to guide our common effort in this area. the commission has from the beginning been a strong supporter of this idea, together with the korean chair. we need to show that the g20 growth agenda also encompasses and benefits developing countries. at the same time, we want to engage emerging economies in an international development framework which is in line with key principles of development policy and allows for greater coordination. yesterday when i spoke here in strasbourg with un secretary-general ban ki-moon, he specifically mentioned this point to me and he was very grateful for the support of the european union for this agenda. finally, the g20 needs to take a lead in pushing ahead the trade agenda. far from being an alternative to the wto, our agreement with korea should inspire our partners to push ahead to a rapid conclusion of the doha round negotiations by seizing the moment. on the run-up to cancún, i want to say a word about this very important conference. we need to stay focused on our goals here, to be ambitious for europe and also ambitious for the world. we need to move the international process forward. this is not easy. we know that in some of our key partners the pace of change has slowed rather than accelerated. let us not forget that in the meantime we are putting in place the most concrete and effective system for cutting emissions in the world. this is our strongest card and the closer we get to implementing the new emissions trading system, the stronger it gets. we have credibility second to none, grounded in a strong consensus between this parliament, member states and the commission on what we have to do. when we get to cancún, let us not be distracted by arguments about form. we should go into the un process with plenty of confidence and determination. cancún will not be the end of the story, the final breakthrough, but it can be a very important step on the road. the eu needs to convey a clear and consistent message in order to move the negotiations forward. we should aim at a set of concrete action-oriented measures which can deliver confidence and trust in the process and bring us closer to our final goal. that is why i wrote to the members of the european council last week. i set out what i believe to be a balanced, realistic position – one which continues to drive us forward without creating unrealistic expectations. this is a time for europe to take the lead by setting out how cancún can make a series of important steps forward, delivering on important commitments like the fast-start finance and, above all, by making clear that we are continuing to set an example. the european union economy will grow more this year than previously foreseen, but recovery is not yet firmly established; there is no room for complacency, as we have said several times, particularly when one sees the still very high figures for unemployment. we all know that we have faced real challenges in the past months as expressed in a clear way in the report that you are going to discuss now from mrs berès. i welcome the ambition and large consensus in this house on these important issues, but we all know that this is a time when unemployment is hitting hard, when public spending is being squeezed. our citizens show their concerns and we must take them into consideration. we also, however, know that we have been able to find answers as the european union. we have proposed some important pieces of legislation on economic governance. we have come forward with europe 2020. that is, i want to remind you of that point, a strategy for growth because growth – smart, inclusive sustainable growth – is the answer. these concerns are also echoed in the excellent report by mr feio. we have proposed a wide range of financial market regulation measures. let me welcome the agreement of the legislator on our proposals on financial supervision. the reality is that if most observers were asked two years ago whether the european union was ready to have a european supervisory system, most would say ‘no, it is not possible’. now we have shown that this is possible. we are pursuing a holistic approach to covering the different dimensions involved. let me therefore also underline the agreement reached yesterday by the council on the commission’s proposal on hedge funds. i hope that this position can now lead to conclusive negotiations in the european parliament so that the european union can finally benefit from this long-awaited regulation and, once again, we will be in a position of leadership on that matter in seoul. we are also making progress in other areas because we have to look at the real economy. let me also congratulate this house for the work in favour of a new directive on combating late payment in commercial transactions. the directive will give better protection to creditors, in most cases smes, while respecting the freedom of contract. public authorities will have to pay within 30 days or else pay an interest rate of 8%. you know how much this regulation is awaited by smes that remain the most important sector of our economy. our work is not yet complete. all proposals need to be carried through to their end, but they are starting to show their results. the objective is to get us out of the crisis and through recovery, achieving again the growth rates that create employment and make sure that our social market economy will be fit for the 21st century. many thanks for your attention.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. −there is no doubt that the european union has been exemplary in its approach to regulatory and supervisory measures. this can be seen in initiatives such as that of the new supervisory package which allows certain systemic risks to be identified, and identified in time. on the other hand, when it comes to the concept of economic governance, there is no denying that much remains to be done. a member state which neglects its obligations and responsibilities, especially within the stability and growth pact, creates serious problems for other member states, and we should therefore do our best to encourage serious observance of the rules we have agreed on, in order to make sure that member states are stable, both financially and fiscally. i am very satisfied with the recommendations of the opinion i made to the employment committee, and they have been taken into account and i think that the report now makes a case for more employment surveillance within the european union, as well as for strengthening the employment committee.
in writing. – we are in the middle of a crisis, which has to a large degree damaged the financial, economic and social sectors and has had a negative impact on the integration process of the internal market. the single market might be the necessary catalyst to initiate a real european economic and financial recovery from the crisis and rebuild much needed confidence among the citizens. the crisis in itself may serve as a window of opportunity to implement measures which will stimulate economic growth, competitiveness and social progress in europe by putting citizens at the heart of the european economy. i support the rapporteur’s commitment to give clear indications for a way out of the crisis: taking concrete measures and initiatives focusing on the importance of the internal market, employment and the role of smes. moreover, a new holistic and inclusive approach has to be adopted whereby citizens’ goals, particularly those related to economic, social, health and environmental concerns of citizens, are fully integrated into the economy. we need a new paradigm of political thinking, making the european citizen the main political variable in the determination and formulation of union legislation and policy.
in writing. − i am against the concept of 20 weeks at full pay and voted against that particular amendment. nevertheless i decided to vote in favour of the final text as amended because of the insertion of a clause that was negotiated by the ppe, allowing for a degree of flexibility during the last four weeks. i have thus decided to support my political group in the attainment of this compromise.
in writing. − the adoption of the weiler report today marks an important shift in the threshold of the payment dimension in business relations. currently, it is common practice – and more worryingly an accepted practice – for public authorities to pressurise smes to sign off agreements allowing the delayed payment of bills. malta is a case in point. numerous smes, which account for over 70% of employment in the private sector, have encountered serious cash flow difficulties due to delayed payments from undertakings, especially from public authorities, including the government. in a number of member states, the 60 day capping on public authorities will serve as an important protective clause for smes and citizens. however, for this provision to be truly effective there must be correct transposition and implementation of the directive in each member state coupled with stringent monitoring on the part of the commission. it is only then that this new rule can be truly translated into tangible benefits for citizen and smes in particular.
in writing. − even though the european union is one of the richest areas in the world, one still finds a high percentage of european citizens facing the problem of income poverty, limiting their ability to afford the basics in relation to food, health, energy and education. poverty affects 85 million people in europe. moreover, following the current financial and economic downturn, there is a higher risk of poverty mainly affecting children, the young and the elderly, putting many households at a higher risk, reducing their access to medicine, health care, schools and employment. we have to ensure that wealth is evenly distributed among rich and poor member states, among small and big countries and among their citizens. more funds have to be allocated to different studies and analyses relating to poverty and social exclusion, comparing the systems of the 27 member states and identifying which policy works best. we have to continue combating poverty and social exclusion in europe and around the world by taking urgent action and, more importantly, by working in solidarity despite the different fiscal or political pressures we might face.
in writing. − this report takes a detailed and thorough look at the causes of the economic crisis and the developments that have been made at eu level in order to prevent, pre-empt or at least diminish the impact of future crises. the conclusions that have been established in the report are well balanced and present an accurate overview of the causes and effects of the crisis. the report also adds value to the current debate concerning the possible ways forward in this regard. i have thus decided to vote in favour of this report.
mr president, i would like to speak about the general framework agreement on data protection that ms reding has started to negotiate. hardly a week goes by without us hearing about a new terrorist attack or attempted attack, and this is obviously harmful to the well-being of our citizens. we need an efficient tool to combat terrorism. this is one obvious area where we can cooperate with our friends across the atlantic. there is clearly an urgent need for this framework agreement on data protection. ms reding, you have our support on this agreement. of course, we want this agreement, not only to fight against terrorism but also because we have concerns about data protection. we would like you to protect the privacy of our citizens and to protect the principles of necessity and proportionality in particular. this is not a zero-sum game. we do not think that there is a choice between our security and our privacy; we think that we can actually secure both. i would like ms reding to go into these talks feeling strengthened by the support of the european parliament and with peace of mind, knowing that we are behind her in securing a deal which is good for our citizens, a deal guaranteeing both our security and our privacy.
madam president, the re-launching of the single market has to be politically supported, economically viable and socially acceptable to european citizens. no revival of the single market will be successful unless we convince citizens that the single market truly represents their interests. in this respect, i am highly appreciative of commissioner barnier’s strong commitment to take into account citizens’ concerns and aspirations. in fact, commissioner barnier went the extra mile to reconcile conflicting views and tensions and to incorporate different priorities of the various stakeholders. however, in its present form the single market act does not sufficiently address the social dimension which would ensure the right balance of an open economy, stimulating growth and job creation, but safeguarding in the process consumer protection and citizens’ rights. we must not lose sight of the holistic vision of the single market; nor should we approach this act in a defeatist manner, and there i agree with commissioner barnier that we should counter ‘single market fatigue’, especially when that fatigue emanates from within the institutions. in my opinion, the single market is not getting the political support urgently needed to ensure that it does not become yesterday’s business. more political leadership on the single market from the presidents of the commission and council would go a long way towards achieving a viable single market to serve as a catalyst for economic recovery. we trust that commissioner barnier will acknowledge our concerns during the coming months of serious discussions. we must not lose this political momentum and this unique opportunity to revitalise the single market. i repeat that market integration is not an irreversible process and must not be taken for granted; a weak and fragile single market would lead to more disintegration than integration for the european project.
in writing. – i welcome and support this report. however, we should keep in mind that, once all the talk about fiscal consolidation, regulation and macro-economic governance ends, we must examine what effect this has had on economic activity – which is the bottom line of any discussion. the reality is that we need good and effective regulation and better economic governance so that small and medium-sized businesses, which are the main driver of economic growth, develop and grow. the sad truth is that these businesses have suffered greatly in the past two years. as a result, we have high and rising unemployment. the ecb’s policy of pumping in billions of euros to help save indebted banks was the right thing to do, but many banks have become over-reliant on the ecb’s liquidity. so now we have a situation where banks which provided credit too readily in the boom years are refusing to grant credit to small businesses. if this continues then we will not have the growth needed to reduce budget deficits and government debt levels. unemployment will rise, and our economic performance will stagnate. let us act wisely if we do not want to fail the people of europe again.
the rapporteur. - thank you, mr president. first of all, i would like to draw the attention of this house to the fact that we are currently having an important vote in the committee on economic and monetary affairs and i would therefore like to apologise to the many members who will not be present here because we are late and the vote has just started. as the president has rightly said, this report that i have drawn up is a very important report because it deals with a vat system that we want to amend. now, as everyone knows, negotiations to amend the permanent vat system have been under way for quite some time, but there has not yet been a significant breakthrough. the transitional system, which has been in place since 1993, is constantly being extended, and this situation, as we all know, is not sustainable and a lasting solution needs to be found. the transitional system we are currently using is not yielding the necessary fruit as regards the internal market. it is a system that reduces the efficiency of businesses and restricts the efficiency of business across our borders. it is also worrying that this system gives rise to complex forms of fraud, such as the carousel fraud we have recently discussed in this parliament, which have a very negative impact on the income of member states. the solution before us is not an easy one, and a proper arrangement can only be made after in-depth debate and a long period of consultation. now, as everyone knows, the commission has recently assured us that in the near future it will issue what is called a green paper, to start the debate on this issue. this report i am leading is urging the commission to ensure that the process is efficient and to do everything possible to, first, ensure that the new system makes the single internal market more effective; secondly, that this new system reduces the burden on the business sector; and third, to combat fraud as effectively as possible. this report, which as we know has already been approved by the committee on economic and monetary affairs, also urges the commission to ensure that concrete proposals are made public by 2013. let me underline what i have just said: not that we have a system already adopted and worked out in 2013, but i am saying that the proposals should be public by the year 2013. however, i would like, and i think i am expressing the view of the members of this house, that the new system should be in place before the end of this parliamentary term, so that the current transitional system is not extended again. while we will now approve the extension of the new system, we expect concrete steps to be taken without loss of time to think about the new proposals. i would like to close by thanking my colleagues, especially the shadow rapporteurs of this report, and i assure them that we will have a vigorous debate in the future so that this issue is amended as soon as possible.
member of the commission. − mr president, i want to thank you for the comments and the views expressed during this debate. i am glad to see that the european parliament and the commission share views on the need to rethink the current vat system. as i indicated in my opening remarks, i welcome the spirit of the amendments relating to the future of vat. nevertheless, the commission considers that this technical proposal only concerns the periodical extension of the minimum level of the standard vat rate. the outcome of the consultations on a new vat strategy is only mentioned in order to justify the reason why it is premature to set a permanent standard rate level. there is therefore no need to refer to the aims and the framework of the new vat strategy in this context at this stage. i also repeat that the commission cannot commit today on a date for the future legislative proposal on rates. we will first need to have the debate on the future of vat, which will give a clear idea on the priorities for the commission. the outcome of this consultation will steer the commission’s planning for the future legislative proposal. we are finalising our work on the green paper, and in the coming weeks we will produce the real questions for debate for everyone involved: the general public, members of the european parliament, stakeholders and the member states. the questions which will be raised clearly address issues which were raised during today’s debate. i am looking forward to fruitful debates in the coming months in order to enable the commission to develop a much better strategy for vat in the future.
the rapporteur. - thank you, mr president. yes, i am glad that the commissioner understands that we are asking for this green paper to be published as soon as possible in order to have this debate and to be able to go into more depth on the proposals that the commission is going to come up with. as my colleagues in this chamber have said, we must eliminate as quickly as possible all forms of fraud in the system, we must as soon as possible help the business sector to be unhindered by the system we have in place and we must see a more effective internal market. now, today we didn't talk about what kind of solutions we're going to find. we are asking the commission to come forward as soon as possible with proposals to have a meaningful debate on this new system, so that as soon as possible we have a more efficient system than we have today. i understand that today the purpose of this report is to really extend the period, but we also want to draw the commission's attention to the fact that we are eager to have proposals from the commission before us, as soon as possible, so that we too have our ideas that we can put to you to make a fairer system for everyone.
in writing. – information regarding consumer products has become essential. information on medicines is especially sensitive. one important distinction which has to be made is between information and advertisement. the european parliament in discussing this report is making safeguards where medicines are concerned. one instance is that printed matter has to be submitted to the european medicines agency (ema) 90 days in advance for analyses before being forwarded to consumers. one important element which is not being addressed is information on prices. during this legislature i have insisted on the high prices of medicines in malta when compared to the same medicines elsewhere in the european union. the difference in price is not minimal but unbelievable. the cost of some medicines in malta is double or even more than the cost in europe. when i submitted questions to the commission on the subject they always indicated that this is an issue for the national government. i strongly believe that the ema should not only act as a shield for consumers in relation to information on medicines, but when consumers are being blatantly overcharged for medicines and national governments are unable to tackle the issue the ema should have the ability to address the issue.
thank you mr president. a short note: even in the economic times we are living in, it is easy and natural to talk only about the economic aspect. but europe is not just a market europe; it is also a people's europe. this means that we must continue to implement the stockholm programme, because it is the stockholm programme, which we have just agreed, that will lead to a people's europe. in particular, we want to see further developments in the fight against terrorism and the general security of our citizens next year, because citizens are demanding more security from the european union. we also need to strengthen the fight against organised crime, especially in areas such as corruption. we also need to strengthen citizens' rights such as, for example, the protection of victims of crime. finally, we must finally arrive at a single, common asylum and immigration policy, based on the principle of solidarity. thank you very much.
i would like to start by congratulating rapporteur mariya nedelcheva and also congratulating mr diamandouros for the great work he is doing. i would like to congratulate him in particular on the fact that he is reducing the length of the recorded procedures, because i think this is a good step to continue to bring the institutions of the european union closer to the citizens. the second point i would like to make is to recall, as my colleagues have done, the great importance of cooperation between the institutions. i think that the experience we have with the ombudsman, especially the current ombudsman, is of great cooperation between this chamber, between this parliament, especially the committee on petitions and the ombudsman's office. i would also like to call on the commissioner present, mr šefčovič, to follow suit because i think that in the field of complaints from citizens, the european commission is not cooperating with parliament as much as the ombudsman is. we know that many citizens complain directly to the european commission but we have no clear idea of how many people are complaining to the european commission, what they are complaining about to the european commission and what the outcome of complaints to the european commission is. on the other hand, all complaints received by the ombudsman are known to us and all complaints received by the committee on petitions are known because they are public. finally, i would also like to pass on a message to my citizens. a look at the report reveals that, proportionally, the largest number of complaints were, coincidentally, from malta and luxembourg. it is interesting and i think the reason is not simply that maybe people from malta and luxembourg complain a lot but rather that these citizens are standing up for their rights. and i think it is important that citizens of the european union stand up for their rights.
in writing. − the treatment and safety of women and children in areas of armed conflict around the eu is a matter of growing concern. it is vital that everything possible is done in order to limit the consequences resulting from such a state of affairs in these regions. it is for this reason that i have decided to support the motion for resolution.
mr president, speaking on behalf of the epp group we look at visa facilitation and visa liberalisation policy very positively, because we think that this is a very positive instrument with which to deal with third countries, especially those countries that lie in our near neighbourhood. so our initial outlook is clearly positive. visa facilitation is the first step, and this week we are giving it to georgia. it is a first step, but it is an important step in what my colleague anna maria corazza bildt has called people-to-people contact. visa facilitation normally goes together with readmission agreements. madam commissioner, we also attach a great deal of importance to readmission agreements because we want to make sure that people who are illegally staying in eu territory are asked to leave. this is the only way in which we can win public trust for visa facilitation and eventual visa liberalisation. the two go together, so we ask you to work harder to increase the network of readmission agreements that we have with third countries. as for visa liberalisation, we did this last year for serbia, macedonia and montenegro. it is good to see that our friends from albania and bosnia-herzegovina are now going to benefit from it too. we wholeheartedly accept this and feel that this is a very good step towards further european integration and certainly to bring the citizens of these countries closer to us. when we decide on these dossiers, we are always very careful to take a decision which is not political but is primarily taken on technical grounds – i.e. countries must first fulfil technical criteria before they get our positive decision. a decision would also of course be political, but it must rely primarily on technical assessments. i emphasise this because it is mostly up to the commission to come to us and say that a particular country has passed the technical criteria. therefore, when we have cases of abuse with people coming from a visa liberalisation country, such as serbia or macedonia, and asking for asylum in eu countries, we have to ask whether the technical assessment has been carried out fully and correctly, because it is clearly not compatible with visa liberalisation to have someone coming to the european union and asking for asylum. this tells us that something, somewhere, has gone wrong. it is legitimate for us to ask what went wrong and to get a reply. finally, we must take this opportunity to send a clear message to the countries involved – especially those such as serbia and macedonia involved in cases of abuse – that they should clearly tell their citizens what visa liberalisation is all about. it is not about going to eu countries to settle there or to find work, but it is a simple visa waiver for a limited period of time – simply for a visit. this applies to the european commission too. it is important for the commission to work hand-in-hand with these countries to make sure that this message gets through.
as the rapporteur for the frontex regulation, i would like to welcome this development of this law that we have before us today, because it is a law that will help us in our process of strengthening the frontex agency itself. my report on frontex and the changes to be made to its mandate was actually presented last month and this week the deadline for amendments to it expires. in other words, i estimate that in the coming month - january and february - the libe committee will be adopting the amendments to the frontex report, and we will be able to conclude it on behalf of the committee. i hope that we can then start the process of closing this dossier as quickly as possible. however, the fact that you will have these immigration liaison officers who will help pass on information to frontex is certainly a very positive thing.
i would like to start by congratulating véronique mathieu for the great work she has done to achieve this result. it was really important work on a subject as commissioner malmström said really complex. i would say that for the group of the european people's party, we must cooperate in the area of legal immigration as long as it is clear that we are intensifying our attack against illegal immigration, because i think that one must go with the other. at the same time, however, we also recognise that one of the tools we can use to tackle illegal immigration is by providing good and clear opportunities for regularised immigration as we are doing in this case. i would also like to recall, however, as véronique mathieu said, that the lisbon treaty has given us new powers in this field, but also new responsibilities. and when we receive new responsibilities, we need to support them. and this parliament should shoulder these responsibilities also by being able to accept compromises with the council of ministers. and to accept compromises with the council we must necessarily accept some of the council's positions, such as the safeguards that the council wishes to retain in issuing these permits under this directive. i think that the question of equal treatment arises here. we must accept that to reach an agreement with the council we must necessarily accept that the conditions are not necessarily always the same. but at the same time - and i close with this - for those who say that they are rushing things too fast or are prepared to vote against, they should appreciate that without such a directive we would end up in an illegal situation which certainly does not give any dignity to workers who are in an illegal position.
i would like to start by greeting and congratulating claude moreas on his report. we agree with the report and welcome it because it will give new rights to people applying for international protection, including refugees. it gives them rights that we, after all, already give to other third-country nationals who have already lived for five years legally in the countries of the european union. however, there are certain difficulties in this report, and i come from a country that has felt these difficulties. these difficulties are as follows: when you have to wait five years to get the right to give you this law, they are a lot, especially for countries that have a very large number of people who are locked up, stuck, in the countries they arrive. i come from one of those countries, but there are other countries that we've seen recently; greece is one of them, where there are many people who under this law have to wait five years to benefit from the rights we are talking about. of course, they benefit from the rights of long-term residence but they also benefit from the possibility of being able to move to other countries of the european union, which is something that could greatly help these countries such as greece, malta, cyprus and others. and so, in my view, what should have been done to make this good law a better law, should have been that in the case of these countries they did not have to wait five years to acquire these rights but could have acquired them even earlier. and in this sense i would like to close by thanking the rapporteur, claude moreas, who recognised this point and did his best to insert a reference, albeit symbolic, to it in the explanatory note at the end.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the debate today on the fundamental rights situation in the european union is very important, not only because it comes 10 years after the proclamation of the charter – the anniversary of the charter was at the beginning of this month – but also because it is the first discussion in parliament dedicated to that which the rapporteur, ms gál, calls the ‘new post-lisbon fundamental rights architecture’. she is absolutely right. we have started with a new beginning for the meaning of human rights and fundamental rights in europe. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the members of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs for their very valuable contribute to this debate. we now have a legally binding charter which is part of the eu’s primary legislation. what we need to do now is to put the charter into practice. it was precisely for this reason that, in october, the commission adopted a communication on the strategy for the effective implementation of the charter. the key objective for the commission here is to make the rights enshrined in the charter as effective as possible for the benefit of all the people living in the eu and, as members of this house, you represent those people. the charter must be our compass and we must lead by example, in particular when we legislate. this applies to the commission’s internal preparation work and to adoption by the european parliament and the council, as well as to the application of the new rules by the member states. the commission has enforced a systematic assessment of the fundamental rights impact of new legislative proposals through a fundamental rights checklist to be used by all commission departments. i am pleased to see that ms gál’s report supports this approach. it highlights in particular how important it is for the european parliament and for the council to pay attention to compliance with the charter throughout the legislative process. not only must the text on the table comply with the charter, but the effects of later amendments to that text must be taken into account as well. each institution therefore needs to think about how to ensure that amendments to legislative proposals are properly assessed. i welcome the call in the report for improved cooperation among the institutions. we also have to see how the charter is applied when member states implement eu law. i would like to reiterate in this house that i will not shy away from starting infringement proceedings whenever necessary. the report also highlights the accession of the european union to the european convention on human rights. the speedy accession of the european union to the convention is a high priority for the commission. negotiations are well under way, and are moving forward in a swift and constructive manner. if everything goes well, as seems to be the case, i hope that we will be able to reach a final agreement in the first half of 2011. so things are moving quickly and they are moving well. i also fully share the objective of ensuring smooth cooperation with international organisations. we do this as a matter of course, on a daily basis. the commission already takes into account the un convention on the rights of the child when it prepares new proposals which can affect children. recently we also had a discussion about the disabled, and it is clear that in that field too we are applying the united nations convention in the member states and at european union level. the rapporteur spoke about the agency for fundamental rights, which has a key role to play in providing us with comparable and reliable data on the situation in the 27 member states in areas where the eu can act. there too we want to work not only in theory but in practice. i have for instance asked the agency to contribute to the work of the roma task force. the commission is in favour of extending the mandate of the agency to ensure that it can also provide its expertise in the areas of judicial cooperation in criminal matters and police cooperation. to make this possible, on 2 december the commission adopted a proposal to amend the multiannual framework, which lists the thematic areas in which the agency can work. i should now like to move on to something new, which i think tallies perfectly with the rapporteur’s line, and that is the momentum created by the lisbon treaty which we have to uphold. with this in mind, in spring 2011 the commission will publish its first annual report on the application of the charter. the idea is for this to be published as an annual report every spring. i believe this would be the time for parliament to come in and provoke a real debate on how the charter is being applied in practice. when we prepare our first annual report on the application of the charter in spring 2011, i will pay particular attention to the european parliament’s report, and to parliament’s other fundamental rights activities. this will not only allow us to hold a debate on human rights outside the european union, as is customary in this house, but it will also allow us to hold a yearly debate on fundamental rights and how they are applied by the different governments inside the european union, as well as to see whether the european institutions are doing their jobs as they should be.
on behalf of the ppe group. i would like to begin by thanking ms kinga gál for her report and thank her in particular for the focus she has placed on such an important and topical subject as the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and its implementation. i think kinga gál's focus on this point was crucial this year. i would like to make a point about the importance of continuing to consider human rights as fundamental human rights, because sometimes i fear that not everyone interprets fundamental rights in the same way. first of all, it should be clear that human rights do not mean that we should ignore the concept of subsidiarity for example and rely on the different values of the member states. unfortunately, some are trying to use fundamental rights to do just that. the european union should leave it to the member states themselves to decide on ethical issues such as euthanasia and abortion. secondly, we must be careful that fundamental rights are really fundamental rights and not other rights, which, although important, are not fundamental and therefore risk being unrealistic rights when we talk about them in today's context, such as for example the rights we grant in the field of immigration which are very important but not always fundamental rights. and finally we must also be careful to take reasoned positions on issues such as security and the importance of data protection. in conclusion, i think we need fundamental rights, but at the same time logical and realistic rights.
in writing. – let us remind ourselves that the eurozone crisis is mainly a sovereign debt crisis which has been exacerbated by two significant events. one is the bail-out of private financial institutions, whereby private debts were taken over by sovereign debt, and the other is the stimulus packages used by governments to slow down the economic decline. we ignore these two events and treat all countries as if they were a reckless happy-go-lucky group lazing in the mediterranean sun. any mechanism we put in place to deal with crisis prevention and recovery should bear in mind that, in normal times, countries were duly following plans to reduce their deficits and subsequently their debts. errant countries were the exception and not the rule. by all means, let us increase the surveillance mechanism and put some reasonable sanctions in place, but we should not lose sight of what we want to achieve in the medium term: growth and employment. these goals are not achieved by sanctions and imposed austerity measures. they come about when we understand how imbalances are created and reduced, and we work together to achieve these goals. this is what the citizens of the eu expect from us.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the impact of advertising on consumer behaviour because i am in agreement with the rapporteur that, in the digital era, advertising has taken on a new dimension which necessitates – as the rapporteur has recommended – the implementation of an eu website labelling system modelled on the european privacy seal, certifying a site’s compliance with the data protection laws. consumers need to have information which is clear, non-manipulative and objective in order to be able to make intelligent decisions. sophisticated and aggressive marketing techniques have over the years prevented consumers from making informed choices with regard to goods and services. this is especially so with regard to citizens who are particularly vulnerable, such as children. we need to have a more disciplined approach which truly safeguards citizens’ interests.
in writing. − the directive on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings aims at creating a more hostile environment for the human traffickers by punishing the criminals and guaranteeing stronger prevention and protection of the victims. it is unacceptable that human trafficking is still a state of fact in europe affecting hundreds of thousands of people mostly from vulnerable social groups, such as minorities, women and children for reasons of sexual exploitation, forced labour, modern-day slavery, and others. i strongly condemn all exploitation of victims of human trafficking and therefore i am in favour of strengthening protection of the victims and introducing higher sanctions for the traffickers. improving the cooperation between eu countries and strengthening the coordination between various institutions and organisations at european, national and regional level is of particular importance for the successful implementation of the directive. the eu should use its international relations to commit its partners to curb human trafficking and ensure that the rights of the victims are respected worldwide. moreover it should include in its political dialogues with non-eu countries policy norms, standards and principles of the international human rights system for combating and preventing trafficking in human beings.
