president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, freedom of expression in the netherlands is under severe pressure. our party leader geert wilders is due to appear before the dutch judge next week. not because he committed a crime, but because of his political views. the freedom party warns of the consequences of islamization. islam is not a religion, but an ideology that wants to dominate us. islam has nothing in common with western freedom and democracy. criticism of islam is often costly for politicians and opinion makers because of threats from fundamentalists. the fact that politicians who criticize islam in the netherlands are now even pursued by the public prosecutor's office and the courts, and may even end up in prison, is disastrous for our freedom and democracy. we must not allow this to happen and we therefore sound the alarm for the netherlands and the free west. stop the islamization and stop the persecution of politicians because of their political opinion! we will be in the netherlands next wednesday to demonstrate for our freedom. support geert wilders and follow this scandalous political trial against a brave politician: i'm not going to let you down.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, last summer i got elected to the european parliament by voicing criticism against my own government. a young woman in iran, having done the same, would have likely been killed, imprisoned, tortured and raped since. thanks to new media we have all seen the clips of the brutal way the iranian regime cracks down on citizens who speak out peacefully for democracy and freedom. recent arrests of human rights reporters by the intelligence office of the revolutionary guard show that the iranian regime takes an increased interest in closing off the country. their reports were heavily relied upon by international journalists. yesterday was martin luther king day. we commemorate a man who, too, marched the streets peacefully and said: ‘a time comes when silence is betrayal’. high representative, this time has long arrived. president barack obama broke off his holidays over christmas to speak out against yet more brutal attacks on citizens after ashura. in the proposed two-track approach to iran, balancing the nuclear question and human rights, the united states is increasingly emphasising human rights. europe should take a stronger leadership position here, not only when it is political safe to do so. the disaster in haiti is a terrible tragedy, and i am glad you are taking action. however, the man-made disaster that is ongoing in iran has not been met with leadership and coordination from the european side thus far. last month a delegation of this parliament was supposed to visit iran, but the regime did not want us to see with our own eyes its own weakness and division. it is high time that europe takes one stance regarding iran, and the world is waiting. is iran’s current regime, which has lost its legitimacy and is divided internally, a credible actor in negotiations? what measures do you propose in the nuclear question that will target the government without harming the population? are you willing to call an emergency talk in europe on iran? to ensure that human rights will remain europe’s priority, how will you use the eu instrument for human rights? i believe we need to support citizens, civil society and journalists. the ‘shelter city’ programme, proposed by the czech presidency, might be a useful tool to support iranians under threat in europe. in the hearings with commissioner kroes i asked her whether she is willing to work with you to make free speech on the internet an integrated part of europe’s foreign policy. i ask you the same.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. israel will strike at its arch enemy iran sooner or later. in parallel with this european debate, the media in iran also focused on the military option against tehran's controversial nuclear project. all zionist lies and exaggerations, the conservative kayhan magazine judged about this alleged nuclear danger. in the meantime, there is no doubt that the islamic republic's nuclear programme poses a very serious security risk. firstly, for israel, but also for the wider region. i therefore still hope that the international community will not only see this but also really act on it. i think that all options must remain open. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of human rights. that brings me to a crucial question to the council, to you, madam high representative. is there any european support for the rigorous tightening of sanctions against the iranian regime? the close commercial ties between a number of prominent eu member states - i need not mention names, they must also be known to you - and the islamic republic would seriously impede a serious approach to the nuclear issue. in recent weeks, the wall street journal has written a number of very sharp op-eds on this subject, almost accusations against europe. in conclusion, madam high representative, is there support for the strengthening of effective sanctions against the islamic republic of iran? i'm waiting for your answer.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, i would also like to thank the high representative for her words, which were full of optimism. there are indeed positive signs. you're referring to the lower death toll from bombings and the upcoming elections. but, mrs ashton, even successful elections do not make democracy and do not make the rule of law. to speak in your own language, english, with a great german, schiller, "the voice of the majority is no proof of justice". a mature democracy also recognizes the rights of minorities. that is where i have serious concerns. i'm disappointed i didn't hear the word "minorities" in your story. why do i worry? human rights watch continues to report that non-muslim minorities are being persecuted. since 2004, there have been 65 church attacks. local militias are still driving christians from their homes. the day before yesterday, a 52-year-old vegetable farmer, father of two daughters, was shot dead in the middle of the street in mosul. this, of course, leads to a continuing flight of christian minorities from iraq. the european union has a duty to help the victims of the conflict, and to help the victims of the conflict. the european union cannot stand by and watch. article 2 of our union treaty literally mentions human rights, including the rights of minorities, as one of the core values of the european union. we demand respect for minorities from the 27 member states of the european union and it is your task, mrs ashton, to enforce this respect internationally. the commission's approach so far - as you yourself have said - has been very much geared towards general support for infrastructure and the building of democracy, whether or not through the un. you say we agree with iraq's priorities. i would like to hear from you how you will ensure that the policy on iraq and the budget of the european union for iraq pay more attention to vulnerable minorities. that may not be iraq's first priority, but it is our first priority. so i'd like to hear your reaction to that.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the fact is that iraq is not secure. that is a fact. if we look at iran, iran is trying to get much more influence than necessary in iraq in the south – throughout the whole south, via the shia minority. i did not hear the high representative mention the position of iran. iran is threatening iraq. how does she see the role of the european union in keeping iran where it should be – in iran and not in iraq? regarding the north, we see that there is a big problem between turkey and iraq concerning kurdistan. of course there can be legitimacy in fighting guerrillas in the north of iraq which threaten turkey, but that is the point. the autonomous region in the north of iraq – kurdistan – should have its own development. regarding the energy memorandum of understanding, this is very important, but iraq is not a unitary state. so is the memorandum also being discussed with the kurdish autonomous government? because there is a discussion in progress on kirkuk, on who owns the oil fields etc. is this being taken into consideration? i would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the iraqi security forces are still not well-trained, and are still not functioning well. so we should not only support the rule of law but, if asked, we should also be prepared to help them by assisting their security forces. there needs to be an integrated approach concerning energy, the economy and stability. there needs to be an integrated approach concerning the states neighbouring iraq. please would you give a clue about that integrated approach? thank you on behalf of the alde group.
on behalf of the epp group. mr president, during our christmas procession on christmas eve 2009, many churches in iraq, the land of two rivers, remained closed. bomb threats again caused this sad situation, as in the previous year. moreover, even without these threats, churches often remain empty, as more and more christians leave the two-stream country. the violence against them is only increasing, although their numbers are dwindling. three more deadly attacks in mosul before christmas. in addition, christians in the formerly relatively safe kirkuk have been subjected for months to a relentless series of kidnappings and murders, resulting in the flight of hundreds of christian families. iraq had about a million and a half christians in 2003, but now more than half have sought refuge in religious purges, religious purges by islamic extremists. does the european council, does the 27 member state of the european union see this afghanisation of iraq, it is a quote from a christian in iraq, as merely tolerant? i'd like to hear your position, high representative. in any case, a country of the two rivers without its ancient christian congregation will not be able to face a more tolerant future, nor will it be of benefit to europe's security in the long run.
for the greens/efa group today the dutch newspaper reported on the arrest of an asparagus grower on suspicion of trafficking in human beings and the use of slave labour by romanians, european citizens. trafficking in human beings is not only something that happens to citizens from outside the union, but also to citizens from within the union. a well-integrated policy to combat trafficking in human beings cannot be limited to catching such a trafficker and taking firm action against the perpetrators, but must focus on the victims of that crime. their rights and their future must come first. victims of trafficking should never feel that they are alone or that they are abandoned. we must provide them with legal, medical, social, social and financial assistance in all its forms and perhaps also compensation. the fact that they can claim their rights and take advantage of the possibilities in our legal code is crucial in a new directive. i heard mr lópez garrido and mr barrot say very nice things about that. the commissioner also said that people who use the services of trafficked people should be given harsher penalties. i do not think that more severe penalties for such things are wrong, but i do wonder how we are helping the victims if we further criminalise their function, their work - because it is still work even if it is slave labour. how are the victims helped if they have to fear that the work they are doing at the moment will be further criminalised? i'd like an answer to that. victims of human trafficking, if the greens so wish, are also entitled to a residence permit, a permanent residence permit. under certain conditions, to ensure that they do not have to fear being sent back to the country where it all began and to ensure that they can bring charges against the traffickers, while being assured of a safe stay. because there must be no chance, even a small one, that someone will be sent back and there the dealer will run into him again. your new framework directive, commissioner, president of the european union, should be about empowering the victims. this should give them rights and a new future. that's what i'd like to see back.
the presidency wants to speed up accession negotiations, including with iceland. my group is not opposed to this accession, but at the moment there are too many uncertainties about the repayment of the icesave loans to the united kingdom and the netherlands. iceland and icesave have taken great risks for years. the trees seemed to grow to the sky. the borrowing and consuming continued. international bodies, such as the international monetary fund, have warned of these risks. but no, they continued uninterrupted until the shock of the recession. so it is strange that the government in reykjavik is now crying crocodile tears. it was long anticipated that things would go badly wrong. a man with a warning is worth two. in short, iceland can become a member of the eu if it fulfils its international obligations. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the aid is not used to finance the restructuring of the steel industry. only then will there be the necessary confidence for accession.
president, prime minister, president barroso, commissioner almunia, i too would like to focus on the 2020 strategy, because in this time of crisis, europe needs more than ever to be committed to its citizens and their jobs. you have announced that the 2020 strategy is an important spearhead. but when you started in madrid, you made controversial political statements and were also criticised a lot, when it is an important task to bring the member states together. that requires diplomacy. the spanish presidency is not in the habit of making such statements to president van rompuy? under the lisbon treaty, as a co-legislator and an important partner of the european parliament, should you not now be committed to the legislative programme? is it not your task - and your programme says so - to ensure that financial markets are properly regulated? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. shouldn't you be putting more energy into that? and also in the internal market, where there is still a lot to improve. that is important for our small and medium-sized enterprises, our job engine. as regards the 2020 strategy, the ppe group does not want to be free and happy, but to make concrete proposals - and i am referring to president barroso - for a solid and transparent governance structure, but with respect for subsidiarity. so when it comes to the retirement age, brussels is not going to talk about it. should brussels decide on reforms in the labour market or in the education system in the member states? let us be firm, but respect subsidiarity.
mr president, i would just like to understand one thing: if only one or a few language versions are available, then i would like to know the language skills of the members of the commission and the council who signed the agreement and who decided on it on 30 november – so it must be available.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, may i first of all ask you to convey our greetings to commissioner dimas and to thank him on behalf of the ppe group for his efforts over the past few years. of course, we are disappointed in the outcome of the climate summit, but it is important to remember that we have made historic progress in certain areas: i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report. we would have liked it to have been much more ambitious - see our resolution - but these are the first steps on which we must now build. it is extremely important that we make a thorough analysis of europe's contribution to this summit, because at the crucial moment europe was absent. the summit was perhaps well prepared by europe in terms of both content and technical aspects, but politically it was a disaster. europe simply did poorly in the political arena. you are right to say that europe must speak with one voice, but that is easy to say and difficult to do. we must now seize the opportunities offered by the new treaty of lisbon. there are two new women on the front lines now, hopefully. mrs hedegaard and mrs ashton. they must take in the world: with strong climate diplomacy on its way to mexico. the ppe group is clear, mr president, that we must maintain the 30% target as set out in our resolution of november. a 30% target, not only linked to european ambition, but to global ambition. we need to rethink our strategy, because it wasn't shared. a global objective was not shared by a number of the main players. we need to revise our strategy, but we need to keep our ambition.
mr president, let's be very clear about this: copenhagen has failed and there are actually three big losers in copenhagen: the united nations, the european union and the climate. so it becomes of the utmost importance that these three losers become winners on the road to mexico in 2010. three things have to happen for that to happen. first of all: the european union must speak with one voice - mr rehn has already said this - but who will it be? i need a concrete answer. who will speak for europe in mexico? secondly, the united nations. this means that europe must also show its leadership in the negotiations. that means not just looking at the united states and china, but especially those countries that want to do something about the climate. i am thinking here of the african union, mexico, brazil and south africa. expand the group of countries with which you want to conclude an agreement. then third: the climate. yes, we agreed on two degrees, but two degrees means something. 2 degrees, according to science, means that rich countries have to reduce their co2 emissions by 40%. so 30% must now be promised by the european union. on 31 january, europe can again show its leadership by achieving 30%. i ask the eu to come up with that 30%. i would like to hear your response to that, because that is the only way to show leadership and make 2010 the year of the united nations, the european union and the climate.
mr president, i do not want to depict a doom scenario, as has been done here. i do not want to depict a doom scenario for the future, nor do i want to look back in anger about the failure of copenhagen – although i am angry. therefore, the resolution is to do far better in the future, the next opportunity being mexico this year. firstly, do not walk alone next time. in copenhagen, we looked back and we stood alone in our ambitions. we must be able to convince others to be as ambitious as we are. how can we claim to be in the driver’s seat if we fail to convince others of our ambitions and of the destination? secondly, no one size fits all. as sometimes was proudly said during the run-up to the climate summit, there is no plan ‘b’. well, we certainly know it: there is nothing right now. we have nothing. so we had better have a plan ‘b’ next time. last, but not least, how can we win in diversity if our slogan is, i mean, unity. we had better unite next time, and that means one voice. we need a univocal mandate. europe really needs one voice. so, president-in-office, are you willing to commit yourselves to obtaining an exclusive – and not a shared – mandate? it would be an exclusive competence for the european union in climate policy and climate agreements.
mr president, minister, dutch schools held the national reading breakfast this morning. in my constituency, noordwijk aan zee, which is just behind the north sea gardens in an area that will be the first to be affected by rising sea levels, the children at school have heard a story entitled 'a meeting' about snowmen discussing how to stop the heat. and they talk and talk until they're all finally melted. i have to be honest with you . i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. indeed, copenhagen was not a success. and now we can continue to point to other countries or individual sectors. in this debate too, you hear these oneliners coming around. it seems to me that it is better to look ahead to what we can and, above all, what we must do to take our responsibilities in europe and to reach an agreement at the international level. that is why i think the 30% reduction option should be kept on the table. that is why we in europe must look at how we can also use european money to encourage new technologies, for example by not always seeing agriculture as a problem but by encouraging the construction of carbon-neutral greenhouses which can also provide energy. that is why we must base our approach in europe on science, knowledge and skill, and not on emotion, however much this debate concerns us all. finally, as many colleagues have already said, we must speak with one voice. in mexico there should be only one seat for europe, not eight, as was apparently needed in copenhagen. how will you, mr minister, manage to achieve this, together with our commissioners responsible for this matter?
i would like to join in the contribution made to this debate by mrs esther de lange on behalf of our cda delegation. i too am disappointed that the legal agreement has not been reached and i have a question for the minister. what does the absence of the convention mean for our legislative framework, namely the package we have adopted for, among other things, carbon trading? what is the consequence for that system? can you tell me? i would like to stress, in particular as coordinator for regional policy in the epp, that our objectives must remain unchanged. europe must also not doubt the commitment of citizens, cities, regions and businesses who have committed themselves to the package of implementing programmes. climate is not a hype and it is, fortunately, being embedded in the eu 2020 strategy of the new commission. i would also point out that we have now turned our own instruments and resources of the european union towards climate priority. 30% of the regional funds funds go to climate and energy related projects. that's double the amount from the previous period. and that priority is creating space to continue to innovate and to develop new green technologies that will help us to get that lead globally. this also applies to the expenditure under the recovery plan to combat the economic crisis. i believe that this is a good trend, also for the financing after 2013. i do see that there is a great deal of commitment in regions and cities to continue to work on this. it would be a wrong signal - in all the despair that may be echoed in some of the stories here - to take back any of that ambition. i hope with you that this second chance, the chance of mexico, will put us in a better position.
the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. in fact, there were 28 little european dwarfs at the table. 28th 27 member states and one powerless commission. so that's not the way it's supposed to be. if europe cannot speak with one voice, it is powerless and cannot play the role it should. it is a pity for europe, but it is also a pity for the outcome of conferences of this kind. this morning, president barroso said, with the treaty of lisbon in hand, that it is the commission which speaks on behalf of the european union in the field of the environment. let him not only say it, but do it. my question to the commission is - not to say a fine word about one vote - are you prepared to claim that role and if necessary to sideline the council if necessary?
president. - mr rehn, i realize that this is perhaps the last time i have spoken to you in this debate on turkey, this enlargement debate. i would like to thank you for what you have always wanted to say in your discussions with us, with me. thank you very much. mr president-in-office of the council, mr lópez garrido, ladies and gentlemen, the debate today is not about opening chapters. today's debate is about democratisation, and in particular a part of democratisation, because the next partsession in strasbourg will deal with the progress report on turkey and parliament's view. i agree with commissioner rehn that it is incredibly important that turkey embarks on a path towards democracy. i would like to congratulate turkey on all the efforts it has already made in this area, including in the kurdish dossier. after all, who would have thought ten years ago, five years ago, that we now have television in kurdish? when turkey came out with a democratic opening in mid-2009, as turkey calls it, it led to an unprecedented debate. it was a debate in parliament, but also an unprecedented debate in the media. i was hoping then that this debate would finally lead to very concrete and very thoroughly entrenched rights for all turkish citizens. i congratulated all my turkish colleagues in october for having the courage to hold this debate against the public oppression. i have called on them to come forward after that debate with very specific measures to give substance to that opening. but after all the positive energy that had been put into it, the shadow side of turkey also came to light. because with the ruling of the constitutional court came new terrorist attacks. there was a wave of arrests of dtp members and there are still threatening arrests of mps. it also threatens - and i have a bad feeling - to put an end to that opening. i regret the decision of the constitutional court, but i also understand that the same court is asking for the application of the recommendations of the venice commission. president. - mr president, we have always condemned violence and terrorism and have advocated political solutions. the turkish people are not only the victims of the violence of the turkish people, but also of the violence of the turkish people.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr oomen-ruijten, for his excellent report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr oomen-ruijten, for his excellent report. i also welcome the new impetus given by the spanish presidency to the negotiations with turkey. i too regret the ruling of the turkish constitutional court. it is obviously a step backwards, but let us hope that it is a step backwards and that we are now taking some steps forward, because we must also recognize that the present turkish government has made clear efforts to initiate democratization and to give the kurds their rightful place in society and in the political order. i would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that if we want to support the process of democratization, development and reform in turkey, we must be unequivocal in our support for full membership for turkey. i think we must also make sure that the people of turkey, not just the political class, but also the people, are not left in the lurch and do not hesitate, do not talk about intermediate solutions and do not move the goalposts during the game. we must be unequivocal. the same applies to all turkish political parties, and i would therefore like to call on them to put aside their differences and work together for reform. as a member of the joint parliamentary committee, i visited the country recently and i can see that there is a lot of movement in the civil society field. because turkey is not just the politicians and the negotiators, turkey is also the people. i see that the turkish people, the turkish people, are indeed taking up the challenge and are working hard to reform their own society. we should support that wholeheartedly. i would therefore like to insist on strengthening the pillar agreed at the time. not just negotiating, but investing in each other. that was definitely the second beach. i hope that this parliament will also give an unequivocal support to the accession process.
president. - turkey must be treated fairly. then we as the european union must also look honestly in the mirror. it is a question of the copenhagen criteria, which are known to everyone. that must be fulfilled. the accession process is an open-ended process. that was also said when we started the accession negotiations. that means that it is a question of criteria and that will determine whether turkey can join. democracy is of course vital. this means that the european union must also do everything possible to support the democratization process in turkey. it is very strange to see that the pre-accession programme, the accession support programme, is not being implemented properly. the european court of auditors has made it very clear that there were too many priorities and therefore no priorities, and has also pointed out in particular the support for democratisation. i would like to hear from the commission how it views the criticism of the court of auditors and what it will do to ensure that pre-accession aid is properly regulated.
the turkish government has taken the democratic initiative to make the country more democratic. for the kurds, their cultural rights would be improved. this is a bold step forward. however, banning parties is a big step backwards. in a democratic state governed by the rule of law, debate must always be able to take place in a democratic manner, with room for all citizens to make their voices heard. the ban on the dtp does not contribute to the chances of success of the democratic initiative. a year and a half ago, the same fate would have befallen the ruling akp party. i expect turkey to amend its constitution as soon as possible, in accordance with the criteria of the venice commission, in order to avoid banning parties. all parties must cooperate. after all, the same thing could happen to them. the commission has also proposed a new system of political parties which would ensure greater representation of the turkish people. that can be done by drastically lowering the 10% threshold. it is necessary to prevent parties being banned as a political game. turkey will have to do so immediately and without delay, with the support of europe. i also have to thank commissioner rehn for the excellent cooperation. i wish you the best of luck with your next portfolio.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i'm dutch. i live just across the street. i live at the bottom of the rhine and meuse and my brother has a farm, a dairy farm, in an area designated as overflow area when there is too much water. how come there's too much water? the rain, of course, but also because no measures have been taken in the upper river basin to temporarily hold back the water. that means his business in that area is in danger. what i mean is: the question is whether we can together give substance to the new objective of the territorial dimension, as laid down in the treaty of lisbon. so that means you want to make deals with each other across the entire watershed. that means that you want to bring some of that ownership into those programmes, in terms of transport, ecology and economy, and tackle these things together. i know this because we have also been doing this step by step together on the other side of europe. in this context, there is no free lunch and the involvement must come from below. that is why i support this resolution. in this resolution we are seeking to do so and we also invite the commission to tackle together the governance issues behind this broad approach. i agree with constanze krehl of the socialists when she says that we should not put all the policies in that large area into one big basket. no, we must dare to choose a number of issues that we can better tackle and solve at that european territorial level. i therefore wholeheartedly support this initiative and look forward to the commission's report with great interest.
author. − mr president, in the week of egyptian orthodox christmas, an attack took place killing and wounding 20 coptic egyptians. although the attack can be seen as a criminal act of individuals, various other troubling incidents require our ongoing focus on respect for all minorities in egypt. violence and hatred cannot be accepted in the name of religion. people have a universal right to freedom of religion as well as freedom from religion. ethnic and religious diversity asks for a vigilant society that is able to reconcile differences in open debate, a society where people of any background or conviction know that their freedoms are guaranteed. an open society can only be realised when the separation of religion and state is implemented in the constitution and throughout the system of government. security measures cannot be the only means to manage a pluralist society. yet state emergency laws have been in place in egypt for the past 28 years. a free debate is perhaps the most powerful medicine against extremism and violence. therefore, freedom of expression, both online and offline, can be seen as the egyptian government’s best tool to resolve tensions in society. it is therefore very difficult to understand or accept that around 30 activists, politicians and bloggers were arrested by government forces while travelling to the southern egyptian town of naga hammadi to express their condolences to the families of those killed during the sectarian violence. the arrests are a particularly striking example of what has become a pattern of the egyptian government’s interference in citizens’ rights to freedom of expression. something is desperately wrong when people are treated like criminals merely for attempting to show sympathy and solidarity with fellow countrymen. in too many cases, the argument of maintaining public order is abused. since 2008, egyptians have been unable to get an unregistered phone line, but the control is not total. new rules are now in force, under which users of wi-fi have to pay for a connection, for which they need to provide an e-mail address to have a password and a username sent. this allows for active control of users by the government. moreover, a draft law is under debate in the parliament about net regulation, providing for prison sentences for ‘publication of multimedia content without government permission’. yet the egyptian constitution says, ‘freedom of expression or freedom of opinion is guaranteed. every individual has the right to express his opinion and to publicise it verbally or in writing or by photography or by other means within the limits of the law’. self-criticism and constructive criticism are the guarantee for the safety of the national structure. i urge the egyptian government to refrain from introducing emergency laws limiting fundamental freedoms in light of the sectarian tensions present. an adequate response to crimes committed in the name of religion is only appropriate. however, this should not be used as a reason to repress the population as a whole, with laws limiting free speech and expression. only when fundamental freedoms are safeguarded by the constitution and all layers of legislation are free will an open society in egypt be possible. the egyptian government should lead its citizens on this road to freedom, and europe should be its strongest partner in this.
the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the report by mr glinne, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy. what we see, unfortunately, is that christians are having a particularly hard time in many countries where the islamic faith is dominant. this is the case, for example, in egypt. coptic orthodox christians, but also roman catholic and protestant christians and jews are structurally disadvantaged in egypt. for example, muslims who become christians continue to be oppressed. that's what their ids show. it still says they are muslims, because apostasy is forbidden by law. in particular, the violence against copts has increased enormously in the last ten to twenty years. there have been over 100 attacks, with thousands of victims. i think the egyptian government's position is weak. three men have been arrested, but violence against christians is generally tolerated. i call on the council and the commission to consult egypt immediately so that the government there can take a different path. if cairo does not do so, i think that this must have repercussions for our bilateral relations with egypt.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. as a dutch parliamentarian and leader of the freedom party in the dutch parliament, he is being prosecuted for expressing his opinion. geert wilders is being persecuted by the left-wing elite because he warns the netherlands, europe and the world against the fascist ideology called islam. it is an unprecedented scandal. the islamization of the netherlands and europe, mr president, is threatening european judeo-christian and humanistic culture. and where many, including in this parliament, are leaning back and allowing the tsunami of islamization to overwhelm them, the freedom party is fighting for that european culture. president. - the barbaric acts which have taken place in malaysia, egypt and many other places in the world, for example this week in nigeria, are the result of the intolerant fascist ideology known as islam. in muslim countries, non-muslims are systematically humiliated and killed. the events in malaysia and egypt cannot be considered isolated incidents, but have their roots in the ideology that demands respect but does not give it. this parliament can ensure that these terrible events never happen in europe by fighting alongside the freedom party against the islamization of europe. we invite everyone to join us.
it is important that we debate here in this house the latest developments in the euro zone and also the measures taken by the european commission in relation to euro zone countries in the danger zone. we have seen in recent weeks that the impact on the euro's price is very great and that some of this has also led to unrest on the financial markets. we therefore want a statement from the council and the commission before the informal summit on thursday, not only on the plans that have already been put forward but also on the measures that can still be taken to restore confidence in the euro as soon as possible.
i would like to emphasize that i support the proposal put forward by mr swoboda. it is, of course, all about the consequences, including the social consequences.
president. - i have been to auschwitz a few weeks ago, as you were. we are faced with the horrors that have taken place there. to my surprise, on the official news channel of the palestinian authority, a few days later, jews are being demonized by disgusting statements. i quote: "jews are the enemies of allah and of humanity. the prophet says: kill the jews". these quotes are downright disgusting and i believe that this cannot go unchallenged. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament should be very much against the closure of this money-crane and should express its disgust at these practices.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her report. i'll start by saying a few things that i don't agree with. i think it is very important that we get our public finances back on track and healthy as soon as possible. women benefit from that, not from prolonging public debt. i also think that there are some proposals in the report which sound very sympathetic, but are a little bit symbolic, like a year for this, a monitoring centre for that. let us concentrate on practical measures. but there are also some things in it that i am very pleased with. firstly, thanks to an amendment by the alde group, which refers to the position of single-person households. i would appeal to the european commission to carry out a study on this, because we have a european family policy, but only a few people realise that one in three households in europe is a single person household. these people are often discriminated against very severely in terms of social security, taxation, housing, etc. secondly - and i am looking at mrs lulling here too - i am very pleased with the very explicit references to sexual and reproductive health and the sexual autonomy of women. and that sexual reproductive health includes access to safe and legal abortion. i agree with mrs lulling that information is absolutely very important. but i do note that, at least in my own country, such matters are perhaps different in luxembourg, where they are always torpedoed by the christian democrats. so if we can work together to provide young people with good, honest information, then you have my support and i also believe that we must put an end to hypocrisy and not throw women in prison or condemn them to unsafe abortions. finally, mr president, violence against women. i very much welcome the initiative of the spanish presidency to make this a priority. because few people realise that violence against women kills many times more people every year than terrorism and it is still seen, quite unjustly, as a women's issue.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, we have a relatively new european parliament, and we almost have a new european commission. this is basically the first time with the tarabella report that we are voting on the action that the new parliament’s committee on women’s rights and gender equality wants taken in the coming years. the greens are very happy with this quite progressive report. it is brimful of plans that we want carried out. we finally want legislative action to be taken to further the sharing of care between men and women, with a call for paternity leave. we finally propose to further women in decision-making by looking at the norwegian practice of a quota for boards of directors. the greens are also really happy with the attention paid to the effects of the crisis on women: women’s unemployment differs, and the effects on women of cuts in public spending differ. we should look at that seriously. we very much hope that parliament will show the courage and the readiness to combat discrimination of women, and further equality with concrete measures that might actually bring results, by voting in favour of this report. we hope that the commission will take action accordingly.
today we are debating the progress report on equality between men and women in the european union. there's a lot of talk. but if there is one subject missing from the report, it is the appalling inequality between men and women in the european muslim community, where women are totally subordinate to men, based on the rules in the koran. the participation of muslim women in the labour market or higher education is hardly negotiable for men, or it must be with a burqa or headscarf, which greatly reduces their chances of getting a job. the european union should not fight for the right to wear the burqa, but for the right to work without it. the party for freedom supports the ban on the burqa in public places in france and would like to see it introduced at national level in the other member states. president. - the next item is the report (doc. the freedom party wants this backwardness to be fought hard. they have the right to freedom of expression and to freedom of study, without fear of islam which wants to keep them isolated. it's time for a new wave of emancipation. the party for freedom will therefore not support the report because it does not address the really important issues and we find that a great shame.
in writing. - the barroso ii commission is a mixed company. in recent weeks we have seen strong but also very weak candidates. that does not make the commission's assessment of the whole of the matter any easier. this double feeling is reinforced by the fact that many of the commissioners-designate have addressed the european parliament with a high-handedness during the hearings. but what they really stand for is sometimes still unclear. the sgp group decided to abstain. this is to express the double feeling we have left with this commission. but there is more to it. one commissioner, and the first vice-president in particular, raises concerns of principle. baroness ashton has the dubious honour of being the first eu official to combine a commission post with a post in the council of ministers. we cannot support this irresponsible institutional gamble! in addition, baroness ashton has not for a moment given us the impression of being up to the rigors of this job. it is one of the weakest links in this commission and has never for a moment given the impression of being truly at home in the foreign affairs files. we are not without concern about the period 2010-2014.
the epp group has taken the initiative for this debate because the problems in the eurozone countries make a strong european approach very urgent. that's what we're worried about. in recent years, too many member states have abandoned the stability and growth pact. that is why i would like to call on the council today, not only when it comes to greece, to commit itself more broadly and fully to a much stronger coordination of monetary policy at the informal summit next thursday and at the ecofin next week. the spanish presidency can also set a good example in its own country, because the situation is urgent there too. on behalf of my group, mr president, i would like to express my full support for the european commission's approach to greece. months late, but desperately needed. and it should apply to other countries in the danger zone. the solution is not to increase the money from the european budget, but to actually implement these reform plans. i hope you'll also be working on an emergency scenario, if necessary, and to that end, exploring all options, including working with the imf. at the same time, we must keep our heads cool, because the reactions on the financial markets have been greatly exaggerated in view of the scale of the budgetary problem. this underlines the urgency of rapidly strengthening european regulation of financial markets.
greece has only recently disclosed the actual size of its debt. the magnitude of the explosion is greater than previously thought. the budget deficit is going to 13%. unfortunately, spain, portugal and italy also have high budget deficits. europe should not bring in a trojan horse. it would if aid were given to these countries, as some wish. that should not happen, because then we would be rewarding bad policy with a bonus. the stability and growth pact clearly indicates how to act in the event of a crisis and, above all, how to act before a crisis occurs, namely by ensuring a tight budgetary and expenditure policy in time. the netherlands started this a year ago. the southern european member states have done so too late. fortunately, they have now begun - better late than never - to put things in order. i look forward with great interest to the effects of these measures. and if stock exchange rates and the euro drop a little in the meantime, that will not be a disaster for investors or exporting companies.
greece may even be in danger of going bankrupt and other countries too, thanks to the years of lax leftist policies of the leftist politicians who have served europe: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr verhofstadt, can you please listen to me too? billions have flowed to weak member states and already upon accession greece was found to be tampering with the figures. but no, you were blind to that. europe had to and would expand. it's because of failed politicians like you that these economies have been artificially inflated. and now they're running out. so what happens now? you're just going to continue with your disastrous policies. who is knocking at the door of the european union? more poor countries: the european union has a long history of supporting the development of the common agricultural policy. poor countries that also suffer from enormous corruption. and then spain, which despite high unemployment has also legalized another 700,000 illegal immigrants, who have also brought their families here. and now there's 20% unemployment in spain! mr president, this policy of immigration must stop.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. you said it yourself, we can talk about a lot of animals: the elephant, the asian tiger, the coral. but i want to focus on one animal in particular. yesterday, the rotterdam zoo blijdorp announced that no european zoo has succeeded in breeding polar bears. the european breeding programmes for polar bears are not successful and that is very bad news, especially as the polar bear is threatened with extinction in the wild. as the sea ice shrinks, the polar bear's habitat is slowly disappearing. more than 70% of the polar bear population in the wild could disappear within 45 years. in addition, the polar bear is threatened by trophy hunting and trade. people seem to get a kick out of shooting polar bears for fun, and that's really disgusting to me. i therefore call on the eu to support the proposal to ban commercial trade in polar bears before it is too late; bluefin tuna also has a clear place in annex i.
i could talk about all the species on the agenda for the cites conference at the end of march, but i want to highlight one, precisely because it is such a model of what we are doing as humans right now: the bluefin tuna. this is a beautiful, impressive fish that has been fished for centuries and that we have been eating for centuries. but unfortunately, that fish is dying. after years of mismanagement by politicians who have repeatedly sidelined organic advice, who have allowed short-term economic interests to prevail over the long-term prospects of the sector, we now have no choice but to ban trade in bluefin tuna altogether. there are amendments on the table to do things differently and not to prohibit that trade, but unfortunately it is too late for that. a few weeks ago, a single bluefin tuna was sold for 120,000 euros. that is the reality today. and that explains the huge illegal catches, estimated to be twice the quota. that is why quotas do not provide solace. they're not interested in illegal fishing. the only way to save bluefin tuna is to ban international trade. i know, the consequences for the sector will be severe, i fully realize that. but let us learn from this experience: when the sea is empty, the sector is finished. so let us also be more careful with our nature for economic reasons. i call on the european commission to submit the decision to the council to include bluefin tuna in annex i as soon as possible and i ask the spanish presidency to step over its own shadow and then take that decision. colleagues, in the 17th century, we wiped out the dodo, like humans. let us show our human learning ability and prevent the bluefin tuna from becoming the dodo of the 21st century.
in march, there will be another un summit, this time on trade in endangered species. the opportunity to speak with one voice as the eu once again. science, in particular, has an important role to play in this. let's see what science tells us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. or if we go for the long term, with the bluefin tuna, we're talking about 2012! that's not long-term, that's tomorrow. therefore, follow the advice of the european parliament and ban the trade in bluefin tuna, but also ban the trade in polar bears and keep the african elephant on the same list to prevent further poaching. finally, there will also be a delegation from the european parliament in doha. i therefore hope that the ep delegation will be able to help define the eu's position so that we can work together to ensure that these species are preserved for our future.
president. - we cannot afford to ignore the loss of biodiversity. that could have been my words, but it is the words of the european commission, of commissioner dimas, to be precise, when he presented a communication on biodiversity last month. and i assume that the new commission will share this view and will attach equal importance to biodiversity. if not, i'd love to hear it. given the european commission's commitment to biodiversity, i am surprised that it is the commission which is fully committed to the conservation of species and the reduction of biodiversity loss, while the commission itself does not have the courage - or does not yet have the courage - to propose explicitly the inclusion of an endangered species such as bluefin tuna in annex i to cites. they're supposed to be two sides of the same coin. and of course we must then give financial assistance to fishermen who are working in good faith to survive this intervention. i agree with the previous speaker. and we must also take a harder line on illegal tuna fishing. but, commissioner, i would go one step further. for me, cites and bluefin tuna in particular are a test case. a test case to see whether you, as commissioner, are capable of putting the facts in their place. we know that this is a test case, to see whether this new commission can show leadership or whether it will constantly listen to the member states who will not agree. and not to be stuck in words and messages, but to actually take action. i have just quoted your words, you say you are prepared to do this, it is now time to go from words to deeds and i would say commission, start with that bluefin tuna.
- i'm the reporter. - parliament is dynamic; from fish and cites, we're going to human beings. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. i am glad that today we can amend the erdf regulation on housing for disadvantaged people, for marginalised groups throughout the union. i am also glad that we were able to reach agreement last week on a number of legal problems that have arisen in the context of the lisbon treaty at first reading. together we have found a formulation for the first adaptation of legislation under the lisbon treaty, the first adaptation of legislation in this new legislature of parliament. a whole series of other proposals have been blocked, but this proposal is going to make it. i would therefore like to thank the members in particular for the pressure they have exerted. we said to each other: "this was actually already an agreement under the treaty of nice". however, there was insufficient progress. it was linked to other dossiers and that is why no agreement was reached under the swedish presidency. this year, however, we are faced with a new situation, since 2010 is the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion, the year par excellence for implementing these types of instruments. so i have been working with others to put a lot of pressure on the commission to get the dossier ready right now, just in time, just in time i should like to say. but i am also glad and pleased that the projects originally intended for disadvantaged groups in urban areas can now also be implemented in rural areas. the scheme will also apply to all the countries of the european union. cohesion is still a combination of social cohesion, economic cohesion and also territorial cohesion; the proposal is a good example of respect for the social dimension and social cohesion. i have also been able to make a number of points throughout the whole debate, and i will mention them again: 1. enlargement to all eu countries, to all 27 member states of the european union. 2. the criteria of sustainability and 3. the establishment of further criteria for the integration of this type of construction projects into society; many of the current sites do not meet the criteria, are bad housing in bad places. rebuilding in bad places won't solve anything. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be able to accept it. hence the formulation of further criteria. of course, this does not solve the problems of the 9 million roma, but housing is essential, the physical component is important, and countries can start working on it now. i would ask the european commission, the outgoing commissioner, to answer the question whether we are being informed and involved in the implementation of the whole. finally, in my previous posts i was responsible for the caravan problem in the netherlands and i have seen how difficult it was to deal with. i have visited romania and other countries in eastern europe and i recognize many of them. i think it is very good that we can now take this decision. without good housing, good places and complementary social policies, education, employment, we will not get there. i am very pleased that we can do this and i thank everyone for the pleasant cooperation over the past few months.
- i'm the reporter. - i am very pleased with the support and creativity, but at this point i would also like to stress that we are not there yet; we are setting the framework, but then we have to meet the criteria, and that is very exciting, because with money you can do anything, including the wrong things, and i am still a little concerned about that. i am sure that i will be able to criticise the new commissioner and the council. secondly, it is a voluntary framework, so to speak. this framework is now being offered to national member states in the form of regulations. it is not certain that it will be given priority in the future. i would like to ask the european commission to provide active information in this context, because this is a matter of principle. today it is said: "you are choosing europe"; the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens is a very good one. and the social groups involved must also be involved in this interpretation, because this will lead to a better product and a better sustainable result. i thank you all again and i hope for a positive result tomorrow; we will remain on the ball and continue to monitor the situation closely. in conclusion: the fact that we are the first legislative dossier under the new treaty is due in particular to the priority we have set.
- a writer. - let me begin by extending a warm welcome to commissioner füle, congratulating him on his appointment and sincerely looking forward to a good cooperation. i would like to thank all the members who, by their constructive contribution to the report, have made it possible for us to agree on most of the points. and i say again that my aim as rapporteur for this parliament is to have a clear, balanced and coherent message. i feel that this can only be achieved by a large majority, which we are seeking together. president. - i have three messages to turkey. first of all, and this is where the report begins, the open debate, the constitution and the enforcement of the law. i shall begin with the open debate, the democratic opening. we very objectively welcome the wide-ranging debate which the turkish government launched last year on the rights of the kurds, the alevis, the role of the army, etc. however, the ruling of the constitutional court last december has led to further terrorist attacks. there was a wave of arrests of dtp members and there are still threatened arrests of mps. the open and positive debate that has been going on since the summer seems to be ending prematurely. and of course, mr president, as a representative of the people, i respect the law, but i understand that the constitutional court has also said about the ban on parties: the council of europe and the venice commission have already recommended that the european union should now proceed with the recommendation. so do that, i ask turkey, make sure that accidents like this do not happen again. that brings me to another decision of the court, mr president, namely the annulment of the law restricting the jurisdiction of the military court. we cannot criticise that as parliamentarians, but it is all too clear that the basis of those statements, the constitution, is not sound in the sense that - and i must be careful - it is in any case the basis for this statement. that is why we all say once again: the european parliament must now move quickly to revise the constitution, because only this will bring about the real reforms so necessary for the modernisation of turkish society. the third and fundamental point, mr president, is the implementation and enforcement of legislation which has been adopted. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of women are respected, and that the rights of women are protected. so, mr president, i ask for extra attention to be paid to this enforcement. as for the amendments. cyprus, i have been working with the shadow rapporteurs to find a clear and broadly-based compromise. turkey must know that the additional protocol, which has been agreed, must be accepted without delay. in paragraph 34 i called on all parties to ensure that a solution is found to the partition of cyprus. i therefore ask turkey specifically in paragraph 34 for positive signals. president. - in a new paragraph 48 we emphasize the commitment of both leaders to have the courage to come quickly with a solution for the island, which is absolutely necessary. and to mary cornelissen i say: it may be a bit redundant, but your amendment on violence against women will be supported by the epp group as promised. finally, mr president, i would like to reiterate that my aim this year is to send a very clear message with this report, which is critical but balanced. and i think that if we accept that with a large majority, we will also find a good solution for turkey in modernising and making that country prosperous for all its citizens.
on behalf of the group of the european democratic alliance in the face of the risk of turning the turkish diplomacy against its will once again - see its response to numerous ep amendments - i urge the council and the commission to raise the following five issues in future negotiations with the turkish authorities: the first. the granting of legal personality to all religious communities in the country is the basic condition for the realization of freedom of religion in turkey. the second. immediate end to the public campaign of hatred against turkish christians under the guise of assigning the double negative term "missionary activities" to schoolbooks, local media, as if turkish christians are by definition subversive, subversive. the third. immediately end the flagrant discrimination against non-muslim minorities in the occupation of high civil and military posts in the turkish public administration. 4. other effective government action against the growing anti-semitism in public life in turkey. a turkish scientist recently spoke of a poisoned climate. i'm glad there's still an open climate that a scientist like that can openly acknowledge. so effective government action against the growing anti-semitism in public life in turkey, with prime minister erdoğan in particular taking the lead. the fifth. finally, a strict alignment of relations with the islamic republic of iran on the transatlantic policy on tehran, the controversial nuclear programme. turkey must come clean: where does it stand on the ever more urgent question of tehran's nuclear programme? as a nato ally and a member of the european union, turkey must make a stand here. the council and the commission take the copenhagen criteria seriously and, commissioner, i would once again warmly congratulate you on your appointment. i look forward to constructive discussions and i am also confident that you will take the copenhagen criteria seriously and that we can work towards the modernisation of turkey, a country which i too want to respect.
mr füle, welcome to the chamber. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the maastricht treaty, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the work of the european parliament in this respect. first of all, mr president, i would like to say that the pvv is not in favour of enlargement, not with croatia, not with macedonia, but certainly not with turkey. the turkish occupation of cyprus is illegal, we all agree with that in this house, and yet we go along with turkey without really denouncing it; we impose no or hardly any sanctions on the country. i think that is very weak and that is why i have tabled an amendment condemning the occupation and ordering turkey to withdraw its troops from cyprus immediately. so i hope you'll support that. the press freedom in turkey is also under severe pressure. when i was there, the press was even sent away. we must condemn that in the strongest possible terms, hence my amendment no 16. then iran, ladies and gentlemen, a rogue state: mr president, i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for his report, which has been very well received by the house and which has been very well received by the committee on foreign affairs and security. ladies and gentlemen, we can only express our disgust at this. turkey, which wants to join and calls the iranian regime its great friend, must be strongly condemned here, hence my amendment no 17, which i count on your support. then the negotiations with turkey. turkey, which calls iran its friend, occupies cyprus, oppresses christians, violates women's rights, is a member of the oic, has sharia law that restricts human rights and has islamic culture, can never join. we must not do that, hence my amendments nos 18 and 19, which seek to stop the accession negotiations. i hope you will support my amendments.
in the last six months i have taken every opportunity to go to the balkans and turkey to speak to people there. it's great to see what's happening there with the prospect of accession. major political breakthroughs, but also, and above all, very practical changes that benefit the people who live there. for example, in montenegro, homosexuality is finally recognized; in turkey, the "stay-at-home" houses have finally managed to make good deals with the police, to name just two examples. we can be enthusiastic about what is happening and what is going well, but we must also be very clear about what remains to be done. this european parliament and the member states must continue to insist on the criteria we set at the beginning of the process. but we must not allow the strength of the accession process to be weakened by adding additional obstacles. to zoom in on macedonia, here's what we've got: we all agree that the bilateral problem of the name must be resolved. we all agree that the eu must provide all possible support. bilateral problems should not in themselves be an obstacle to the accession process. that is true of macedonia, but it is also true of croatia, serbia, turkey, kosovo and iceland. for the people living there, the prospect of accession is too important to be held hostage to the solution of a bilateral conflict. i therefore ask you to vote in favour of our amendment no 4 which introduces a new paragraph 30a in the report on macedonia. and i ask you to bear in mind, in these three reports, the enormous importance of the accession process.
madam president, first of all i too would like to welcome commissioner füle to this house. the rapporteur has submitted a very balanced draft resolution. turkey has indeed made good progress, but many points of concern must be addressed urgently. the horrible phenomenon of honour killings must be stamped out as well as the killing of transgender persons. just yesterday, we learned of the umpteenth killing of a transgender woman in antalya. the turkish government must ensure, as a matter of urgency, that transgender killings no longer go unpunished. furthermore, i appeal once again to the turkish government to ensure freedom of association and put an end to the systematic attempts to close down lgtb organisations. the resolution rightly urges freedom of religion and freedom of expression. for a liberal, these freedoms are at the heart of our democracy and are non-negotiable preconditions for eu membership. however, if we ask turkey to comply with eu standards, we must make sure to meet these standards ourselves. that is a matter of credibility and moral authority. homophobia, compulsory religious education and restrictions of freedom of the press must equally be fought in the current member states.
neighbors take care of each other, support each other. if the neighborhood is good, the people who live there are good. turkey and cyprus are neighbours. when they look over each other's fence, they do not see each other, but the turkish cypriots. they are almost literally falling between the craft and the shore. to ensure that all the inhabitants of the island can truly live together again, a solution is needed in which all neighbours make an effort. un secretary-general ban ki moon last week expressed his belief that a solution for cyprus was possible and within reach. this parliament has an important task to make a positive contribution to the situation in cyprus, to seek constructive solutions, to remove obstacles rather than to create them. yes, turkey will have to make efforts to bring that solution closer. we call for this in the report we are voting on. but it is not just turkey that is involved. all parties involved should contribute to creating a good atmosphere in which a sound solution can be reached. that is what we all want in the end, a solution. we must also support the applicant country macedonia in the sense of finding a solution to the name problem in order to be able to start negotiations. as member states, we must be careful not to be part of the problem but to contribute to the solution. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has made great progress and can serve as an example for the other balkan countries and an opportunity to increase stability in the region. we must work for this, for the prosperity of the eu's main export products, for democracy, for human rights, for peace and security.
i should like to ask a question to the head of the turkish delegation, mrs flautre. i don't know if i can do that now, because that's what my blue card was based on. can i ask mrs flautre a question? mrs flautre, in the light of the terrible honour killing in turkey, i would like to ask you whether you agree that we should request a comprehensive investigation into honour killing in turkey. we have a lot of honour-for-honour revenge among turks in my country, the netherlands, and in germany as well, and i think this is just the tip of the iceberg, and in turkey there is a lot of honour-for-honour revenge. can we ask mr füle to investigate honour killings in turkey?
author. − mr president, i would just like to draw your attention to the fact that amendment 20 to paragraph 35 is withdrawn.
rapporteur. − mr president, i shall start by saying that i, too, support a strong, outward-looking eu that is capable of acting shoulder to shoulder as a true counterpart to the us, and in that framework i think it is of crucial important to be open, fair and transparent if we are to address the issue of how europe should cooperate with the us for counter-terrorism purposes, including law-enforcement use of data collected for commercial ends. without a doubt, the targeted exchange and use of data for counter-terrorism purposes is and will remain necessary, but let me be clear: european citizens must be able to trust both security and data claims. getting it right first time round should be the objective and, with all due respect, the council has been insufficiently strong to do so. indeed, the proposed interim agreement is a significant departure from european law, in how enforcement agencies would obtain financial records of individuals, namely through court-approved warrants or subpoenas to examine specific transactions, but with the proposed interim agreement we instead rely on broad administrative subpoenas for millions of records of european citizens. by the very nature of swift it is not possible to refer to the so-called ‘limited’ requests. for technical reasons swift has to transfer bulk data, thereby violating the basic principles of eu data-protection law such as necessity and proportionality. this cannot be rectified ex post by mechanisms of oversight and control. at all times it must be clear that parliament is not out there to just passively take note of the actions of the council and the commission. the fact is that this house is always being promised jam tomorrow if only we would be patient. however, we cannot keep falling for fake promises of jam tomorrow. we need clear commitments now and the ball was in council’s court, i made that clear last week, but so far it failed to act accordingly. the council states that it wants to ensure the utmost respect for privacy and data, but fails to address in particular the rights of access, rectification, compensation and redress outside the eu for data subjects. the council states that it shares parliament’s concerns and therefore calls on the commission to adopt draft negotiation guidelines. why hide behind the commission? it is council that will adopt the negotiation directives in the end; why have the negotiation guidelines not already been submitted? council states yet again that it wants to ensure that the tftp will continue. however, it fails to address the fact that in this way the eu continues to outsource its financial intelligence service to the us. the lack of reciprocity is not being addressed. true reciprocity would allow the eu authorities to obtain similar data stored in the us and, in the long term, consider the necessity of building up our own eu capacity. the council does not show any commitment to line up with existing legislation such as the data retention directive for the telecom service providers, which does deal with specific and targeted data. the council fails to clarify the precise role of the public authority. a ‘push’ system does not mean anything if in actual practice swift has to transfer bulk data. transfer and storage are, in other words, by definition disproportionate under the terms of the interim agreement and the council does not address a european solution for the supervision of data exchange. president-in- office, tell me how on earth i can tell 500 million european citizens that we are selling out on important safeguards and principles just because we are not able to put our foot down, because council is not able to get its act together. tell me; i am all ears. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i should like to welcome to my former colleague and good friend cecilia malmström. it is a pleasure to see you here. this is a first key decision for the european parliament to take with its new lisbon powers and expectations are high, but we need to keep a clear head. we owe it to our citizens to make a well-considered decision, free from outside pressures or scare tactics such as false claims of a security gap, because data, and we know this, can still be obtained by the us without disagreement. let us not forget that the member states were not unanimous on this agreement either. we can only give our consent to an agreement that has full democratic legitimacy, on grounds of substance and procedure. this is not about a battle of wills between the council and the european parliament nor is it about transatlantic relations. this is about european citizens being entitled to a proper democratic and transparent procedure. the answers of the council so far are utterly inadequate, and the democratic rights of european citizens cannot be bargained away with promises of trips to the us or vague promises by the council for future agreements. the council has had countless opportunities since 2007 to handle this in a proper manner and ensure security, as well as protection of personal data and civil liberties, or ensure proper democratic scrutiny by national parliaments or, since 1 december, the european parliament, but the council has been incredibly stubborn. parliament cannot and should not take a decision if it does not have access to all relevant information and documents. our voters have a right to know that we consider all elements very seriously and that we do not simply rubber-stamp council decisions. finally, the european parliament has been very clear for years about its concerns and expectations, and, instead of coming up with more vague promises, the council should finally provide us with the opinion of its legal service and the requested information demonstrating the use of the data for counter-terrorism purposes. i do not consider that the second bruguière report is sufficient. so, if the council wants the consent of this house, it will have to meet our demands. that, council, is the only way. (applause)
rapporteur. − mr president, a lot has been said. let me underline to mr busuttil and the president-in-office, in particular, that by our withholding our consent on the interim agreement the security of european citizens is not being compromised. i think it is very unfair to use that as a form of argument. other legal instruments remain available for targeted transatlantic data exchange and, as stated by claude moraes, nobody has the moral high ground here. with regard to the usa letter, that letter is obviously appreciated, there is no doubt about that, but to state that parliament’s views will be heard, considered and responded to is a bit weak, is it not? it is very non-committal. also it is stated that this is only provided this interim agreement remains in force, which i consider as pure blackmail. i am getting angry and i am sorry for that, but this debate is slowly getting on my nerves. tftp is not, and cannot be considered to be, consistent with the strongest european traditions on civil liberties. it must be seen, and i want it acknowledged, as a departure from european law and practice. i said this before and i want to hear it again clearly. i also want to say that nobody doubts the necessity for continued and stronger cooperation between the us and the eu, though the eu and its member states, in the council in particular, must be strong in setting their own objectives. in that respect, parliament and the council are not in tune yet. finally, let me stress that it is all about european responsibility, and a european solution is to be found. the netherlands and belgium cannot end up being the ‘dupe’ of all this. i listened carefully to your statements, to the request for more time, and i am willing to refer that request to the conference of presidents, but you did not give me the reassurances i was looking for: it was too vague. i will, however, refer your request to the conference of presidents which will meet later this afternoon.
the european parliament has long ago established the requirements to be met by body scanners if they are to be imported: the commission has also proposed to extend the scope of the directive to cover the following areas: there are techniques now to ensure all of this, so x-rays, x-rays and nude photographs should be obsolete. and that's where things are going wrong right now. at heathrow in london, they use old equipment and there's no freedom of choice. new equipment is being imported into italy. the dutch minister of justice is asking for devices at all airports throughout europe, not just for flights to the us, but for all flights. and if we just continue to have the old-fashioned debate about technology, we fail to ask the real, serious question: i am not sure that this is the way to go. i would like to join my colleague from the social democrats in asking these questions. we must think about what kind of europe we want, because there is no such thing as complete security.
for the ecr group the latest generation of scanners meets the requirements of this parliament. security guards see drawn images of human contours and are indicated by dots when people carry liquids, weapons or other prohibited items. if those spots are visible, those passengers at those spots are checked separately. the latest scanners don't affect health either. the radiation from it is weaker than that from cell phones. besides, these scanners are user-friendly. queues are shortened because more passengers can be checked per hour. so it also saves air passengers money. but, mr president, the latest scanners are additional security tools. profiling and good information exchange are also essential. i think we can move quickly to introducing these instruments as complementary instruments.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'commercial vehicle' to cover vehicles with a maximum mass of less than 100 tonnes. it means that if you're a gambler, you usually lose. gambling is addictive, too. it is a real threat, especially to young people. if some of you have a romantic view of gambling, i have to disappoint you. in essence, it is a multibillion dollar business that is too often associated with criminal activity. in the netherlands, legislation is therefore in place to combat gambling in low-threshold establishments, where many young people come. however, online gambling - often cross-border - makes gambling more accessible once again. in this particular case, we must not assume a free market, but rather encourage member states to take restrictive measures. i think the oral question which has led to our debate is a little too much about market forces. in particular, i am not convinced that it is possible to speak of 'responsible gambling' via the internet. as far as i'm concerned, online gambling is restricted as much as possible. the court of justice has recognised that member states must be able to intervene and i therefore call on the commission not to make any attempt to reduce the level of protection by means of proposals for european regulations, but rather to encourage member states to regulate a good level of protection and also not to challenge member states before the court, as mrs gebhardt said, but rather to enter into a dialogue on the best possible protection.
mr president, the netherlands has about 120,000 gambling addicts. that's almost 1% of our population. gambling addiction leads to serious social problems, such as broken families, money problems, and crime. member states should therefore make every effort to combat gambling and its associated problems to the maximum extent possible. it is striking, mr president, that some member states have a completely legal gambling market. in addition, the gambling industry wants us to believe that the gambling market is a normal part of the internal market and that therefore no restrictions need to be imposed on it. i love that. member states should not facilitate markets that promote social misery. sadly, many are unable to resist the temptation to gamble. the dutch authorities have therefore decided to take control of the gambling market and to allow only a state monopoly on gambling. although i would prefer not to see gambling palaces being built anywhere in the european union, i still consider this, mr president, to be the least bad solution. mr president, we as the european parliament must call very strongly on the member states which allow gambling to discourage that market wherever possible.
i would like to congratulate commissioner barnier on his appointment as a member of the commission and i would also like to welcome him warmly, because there is a lot on the agenda. the services directive, or the bolkestein directive, which we have discussed here, explicitly excluded gambling. i regret that, because it means that we have not dared to see that it is a problem for consumers, and i think it has been introduced by governments who were all too happy to see it as a monopoly in each member state, which leaves us with a patchwork of legislation which is leading to a lot of legal uncertainty at the moment. that is regrettable and has to do with a lack of courage, even in our case, to look at a problem. because if you have a problem and you don't look at it, you're like an ostrich burying its head in the sand. but the problems are real, for the gambling organizations are constantly looking for new opportunities. we have now based our legislation on physical borders, but we have long since entered the era of virtual borders. so i think we need to ensure that there is a european approach to online gambling, that we need to have clearer legislation, that we need to involve the providers, that we need to ensure that consumers are protected, that we exclude criminal organisations. but that also means that we must dare to let go of the fact that governments continue to maintain monopolies on the basis of the european court of justice's judgment that 'if you have a restrictive policy, you can have a monopoly', but it is totally out of control. and that is what the european court of justice has said on a regular basis, and i think we must have the courage to make tough legislation to help out the outlaws and the abuse of gambling, for the benefit of our citizens, but also to exclude criminal organisations. i hope that you will succeed, mr barnier, you are doing a great job and i wish you a lot of strength. perhaps, and i conclude, mr president, it would be a good thing for you to look into the implementation of the services directive and congratulate parliament on that. i'm hearing a lot of positive things.
rapporteur. − mr president, my recommendation is to vote against postponement as conditions for postponement have not been met by the council. this house cannot keep falling for fake promises; the ball was in the council’s court but it failed to act appropriately and effectively. the council has known about this problem for over two years and has done nothing in that time to deal with it. by withholding our consent on the interim agreement the security of european citizens is not being compromised. targeted transatlantic data exchange will remain possible; the rule of law is crucially important though currently our laws are being broken and under this agreement with its provisional application they would continue to be broken. parliament should not be complicit in this. finally, the last point, if the us administration would propose to us congress something equivalent to this to transfer in bulk bank data of american citizens to a foreign power we all know what the us congress would say – don’t we? (applause from the left)
the european parliament has been given more power, and that power has not been used constructively today. a lot of things went wrong in the run-up to the swift debate. the commission and the council have not informed parliament sufficiently and too late. it can't happen again. but that is not a reason to suddenly stop a programme that has worked reasonably well for a number of years, a programme that has demonstrably protected both european and american citizens on several occasions. i therefore voted against the report and i am in favour of extending the swift agreement for nine months. the negotiations for a new agreement should include clear agreements on better protection of personal data. we must avoid exchanging data unnecessarily and we must not keep data indefinitely.
mr president, the venezuelan government has unjustly tried to limit free expression and pluralism in the media and on the internet. these desperate attempts to censor information and expression remind me of mahmoud ahmadinejad’s behaviour. in fact president hugo chávez calls mahmoud ahmadinejad a friend – and with friends like these, who needs enemies, one might wonder. yet the fact that chávez considers twitter and text messaging as acts of terrorism shows us that he considers people and the free flow of their ideas and opposition as his enemy. i am a user of twitter and text messaging, i have to confess, but in europe, thankfully, we consider free expression a fundamental and universal right, including on the internet. limiting digital avenues to expression, information and the exchange of ideas is testimony to the venezuelan government’s fear of its citizens and their call for an end to violence and oppression. the successful mobilisation of citizens can be seen in the example of oscar morales, who set up a facebook group called ‘a million voices against the farc’ with the hope of collecting one million people online. he soon mobilised 12 million people to protest on the streets all over the world calling for an end to farc’s violence. this movement was fuelled by citizens using technology as a vehicle. trying to limit this vehicle is not only unjust, it will also prove ineffective.
president buzek, president barroso and, of course, president van rompuy, we are delighted that you are here today and that your start shows that you are ambitious, but also that you are doing exactly what your role in the lisbon treaty is designed to do. paying tribute to this in advance. it is important that you are here in connection with the forthcoming 2020 strategy, because it is crucial to get europe back on the world stage. president, and i say this to president barroso, you know our priorities. the green social market economy is at the heart of this. this means that the main thing is to get the small and mediumsized enterprises back on track as the engine of our employment. this is not just about trade and services, but also about our european industry, which we must make competitive on a global scale. it is also about our agricultural sector and the production of high-quality food, which is also competitive on a global scale. that means we need a small and mediumsized enterprise rich in knowledge, innovation and sustainable technology. however, this 2020 strategy must be built on a solid foundation. a sound foundation means an exit strategy accompanied by a strong stability and growth pact and the necessary reforms of public expenditure in the member states. the old lisbon strategy, mr president, was too vague in its objectives and shows the failure of the open method of coordination. so my question to you is: how will you, in the end, really get the member states to commit themselves to this new strategy with concrete objectives, but within the guidelines of the lisbon treaty when it comes to subsidiarity?
you know it, we know it, the un human rights council is a big farce. this council is held hostage by the organization of the islamic conference, which is made up of countries all protecting each other and whose aim is to harass and falsely accuse the beautiful state of israel. mr president, this so-called human rights council is fighting against everything that human rights stand for and freedom of expression in particular. it is shameful and abject that this parliament should take this terrible advice seriously. mr president, if this parliament is really for human rights, it will condemn the continuous stream of resolutions which seek to kill freedom of expression, as well as the flagrant violation of human rights by the countries which make up the human rights council. president. - in addition to countries such as saudi arabia, pakistan, indonesia and egypt, which are among the world's worst human rights abusers, iran is now also seeking membership of the human rights council. well, yeah, just north korea, and we've got all the rogue states together for a good time. mr president, my party is clear: the un human rights council is a horrible institution and should not be taken seriously. this parliament must immediately and directly dissociate itself from the human rights council and absolutely not enter into dialogue with a bunch of thugs.
for the epp group the goldstone report was the focus of the working visit to the jewish state last week by the delegation for relations with israel. the delegation received detailed information from the military and civilian sides on judicial self-examination during and after the military operation in gaza. this conscientious self-examination refutes in detail the offensive accusations made against the israeli authorities in the goldstone report. and by the way, the idf, the israeli military, takes any allegation against them, so apart from the goldstone report, seriously through careful investigation. this is a marked contrast to the culprit of the gaza operation, the hamas terrorist movement. when does she do self-examination? mr president, the documentation available on the gaza operation leaves no doubt about it. hamas deliberately exposed palestinian civilians to acute war danger, including in locations such as mosques. contrast this with israeli intentions and actions, protection of the lives and property of jewish citizens against the rocket terror of hamas for years, and deliberate consideration for palestinian lives. see all precautions during the operation. mr president, contrary to the intentions of the goldstone report, this biased inquiry leads to a double legitimization of israel's military action against hamas and of israel as a democratic state governed by the rule of law. get lost in the middle east!
from the beginning it was clear that israel had to be branded as the perpetrator, as the aggressor in the gaza conflict. goldstone and his approach were encouraged by countries like egypt and pakistan. we know what the human rights situation is there. the human rights situation is at its lowest. the report does not mention the 12,000 rockets fired from gaza at israel, which posed a very serious threat to the population. israel has exercised its right of self-defence. the report makes no mention of hamas, nor of its use of civilians as human shields or of its use of civilian buildings as weapons storage and missile launchers. not a word about it. there was no mention that the hamas police were part of a military organization fighting against israel. mr president, there is only one thing we can do with this goldstone report, and that is to throw it in the bin, and immediately. we shouldn't talk about it anymore. this is part of a political process. this is as far as it goes! no political persecution by the state of israel!
more than once i have said that if you do not know or acknowledge the past, you can never build a future. this is certainly true of the conflict in the middle east. i have heard a great deal of criticism here about mr goldstone's report. i know mr goldstone from his days as the great conciliator and he has done and led many investigations in south africa. mr goldstone is, in my view, the person who can best put the facts in perspective and then bring about reconciliation. unfortunately, the way in which the report was adopted did not bring about that reconciliation and seems to have led to greater polarization. so the report is just ignored. president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, security and defence policy, on the situation in the middle east. on the palestinian side, nothing has happened at all. i wonder whether the committee of inquiry now appointed in ramallah can even carry out a thorough investigation in gaza. president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, security and defence policy, on the situation in the middle east. we must respect the rights of people and the rights of both parties, and we must do so in all circumstances. president. - the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
a report like that is one-sided. israel is facing a lot of criticism, including for firing on economic and civilian targets. however, hamas has abused these targets. unfortunately, goldstone did not see the need to investigate whether this was indeed the case. so goldstone doesn't investigate what hamas did wrong and then gives israel a slap on the wrist. that does not inspire confidence in the report, because other sources show that hamas did indeed entrench itself, including in hospitals, ambulances and civilian buildings. i am in favour of the conclusion. the goldstone report makes many allegations which need to be investigated. the israeli authorities have rightly taken the initiative and a criminal investigation has been launched. that's very commendable. but i fear that we will have to wait a very long time for such a self-critical attitude on the part of hamas.
i too regard the debate this evening as more of a regional affair. we have seen that yanukovych has been elected in ukraine. he is clearly a president who is more focused on moscow than brussels. we cannot allow his visit next week to throw sand in our eyes. i think that what is happening in belarus, what lukashenko is allowing himself to do to the polish minority, is also a sign that he is looking more towards moscow than the west. he seems to dare to deprive a minority from an eu country of its basic human rights in this way. what's going on? the reason for this is, of course, that europe as a whole has turned its back too much to the east. we have not been sufficiently open to genuine access to these countries. of course, we must now judge very harshly what belarus is doing to the polish minority. but let us also open up our own policies a little more and have a less restrictive visa policy. let us look at energy policy and make it more geared to countries like belarus and ukraine. that would be my plea. the commission has already made a number of proposals. that will have a much better effect on internal political developments than to judge too harshly now and leave the matter to moscow.
given the nighttime we are discussing this, you would almost think that our own budget cannot stand the light of day. mr president, of course the treaty of lisbon gives us more tasks, more powers and more work. but does that mean that we need to have more staff across the board, both for committees and for groups and for individual members? i doubt that. i think that if we are going to work more politically and more efficiently, we can do that within the current budget. finally, mr president, there seems to be a number of steps. it won't be one year. it seems that we will get another increase next year and my group does not support that. if we now agree to an increase because of lisbon, we can only use that argument once. we are therefore dealing with a one-off increase, not a repeat of next year and then again, which would require additional buildings.
mr president, sustainability is rightly a key concept in the green paper. sustainable in the sense of future-proof for fisheries, as well as good for the environment. the objectives set by the european commission are not new, but europe has so far failed to achieve them. this puts additional pressure on the need for reform. i support the commission's approach: the regional dimension the fisheries sector itself needs to be given more room, with attention to ecology. the current policy is too far-reaching, too detailed and ineffective. the rules are also not being followed very well at the moment. the good suffer from the evil. i'm proud of the dutch fishermen. they are the only ones with the danish quota system. we must encourage the european fisheries sector to become more involved and responsible, following the dutch model. i am glad to see that in the green paper. this is the only way to ensure a sustainable future for the fishing industry.
the existing fisheries policy is not working. a radical change is required. these are the rather far-reaching words with which the european commission opens the green paper. that's very impressive. not that i want to fight them, on the contrary. some argue that the cap has failed, not primarily because it is such a bad policy, but because it is so poorly implemented and maintained. there are important lessons to be learned. policy must be feasible. that's why it has to be simpler. i therefore welcome the direction taken by the european commission. regionalization, greater involvement of the sector and above all compliance with rules. the report by my portuguese colleague on this green paper points out the major differences between fisheries and fleets. you're right to be. we cannot speak in general terms of overcapacity or overfishing or non-compliance. a regional and sectoral approach requires a nuanced approach. i have just had an intensive discussion with representatives of the sector last saturday. fishermen and scientists are working together more and more, they told me. that seems to me to be an example of how it can be done. it is a great deal more acceptable to have fishermen contribute their knowledge and help shape policy. then we're on the right track. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur very much for her excellent report.
president. - as you said, today is international women's day. the 100th anniversary of it. is that why you're having a party? we have achieved a great deal, but we also have a long way to go. and we can only do that if we do that, women and men, together. this year's international women's day is about solidarity and the fighting spirit of women all over the world. that is an important theme in a time of economic crisis. it provides tools for working together, men and women, to build a better future for ourselves and our children. because only together can we ensure that women and men are equal not only before the law, but also in everyday, economic and social life. because women make up about 50% of the world's population, but they earn only 10% of the world's income. only 5% of the world's population is a world leader. of all the poor in the world, 75% are women. it can and should be much better. but it's about more than poverty. and if we look particularly at other parts of the world, in large parts of asia, boys are given more credit than girls. these are more productive for the family, and that results in the expulsion of girls, and even in the abortion of girl fetuses. unfortunately, trafficking in women is also a well-known and widespread phenomenon. in africa, many young women and girls are victims of war and rape. there are many cultural causes behind this, and we must also give them a lot of weight when it comes to improving the position of women. oppression of women and girls, including in muslim countries, which is based on religious reasons. it is therefore important that we, the european union, also give prominence to the equality of girls and boys and men and women in aid programmes and international relations. so it is not just about fighting poverty, but also about overcoming cultural prejudices. that is an important task for the high representative, mrs ashton, and also for commissioner georgieva. but we have a lot of work to do closer to home, and even within our own group, with the support of our chairman, mr joseph daul. i would like to make one final comment about us, here in the european union. it starts at an early age, in education, and access to education for girls in europe is still not guaranteed. in our culture, that should be 100%. this should be a key objective of the new 2020 strategy.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period from 1 january 1999 to 31 december 2000. i've been celebrating this day for as long as i can remember, and my mother did it before me, and my grandmother did it before her. on 8 march, i sometimes get discouraged by all that has to happen before men and women have truly equal opportunities. so many women who face violence every day, so many women who live in poverty, so many women who have to take care of children and their parents on their own. and so few women have made it to the top of business, academia, and politics. but when i think about my grandmother's generation, who had to stop working when she got married and had no chance of education, and my mother's generation, who fought very hard to have control over her own body, i see how far we've come in one century. i can see that change is possible. but the world will only get better if we do our best now. we can make a significant contribution from the european union, but not if we stick to fine words. the fight for equal rights has been plagued by far too many fine words for far too long, and some have been added. on friday the commission presented a charter of women's rights with a lot of beautiful words. i have a very healthy suspicion of its implementation. the fact that the european parliament and ngos have not been consulted, as mr schulz has said, reinforces that mistrust. but since it is mrs reding's first act as commissioner for equal opportunities, i am quite willing to give her the benefit of the doubt. what will matter is what initiatives she will link to her fine words. if she comes to us in this period with a directive against violence against women, with a directive on paternity leave, with strong measures to combat discrimination against women, with strong measures to increase women's participation in the workforce - for example by better matching working hours and school hours - and with quotas for women at the top at least in her own ranks of the commission, if the commission turns the fine words into real action, then i and my green colleagues will be the first to stand up and applaud. if we want change, we have to do it together. the commission, the council, the left wing of this parliament and the right wing of this parliament. march 8 is not only international women's day, it's also my son's birthday. he's two today. for his part, i hope with all my heart that in 30 years' time there will be a europe in which he and his wife - or his husband - share the care of children equally, where women have the same chance of becoming professors, ceos or european commissioners. and his mom is gonna be working really hard on that for the next few years, and luckily i'm not the only one. (applause from the left)
i am very pleased that the european union is deleting a rule, because there are already far too many rules. both citizens and businesses are affected. but let us take the good ones, for example the procurement rules which are unnecessarily intrusive and complicated. the obligation to publish annual accounts is not, however, a rule that can be waived, even for the smallest companies. without sound and transparent financial administration, you cannot get credit and it becomes much more difficult to do business in general. i have learned from the field that financial administration is often a problem in the smallest companies. if the annual accounts are no longer required, the only information available is the information on the documents drawn up for tax purposes. but who can guarantee that they are as reliable as a certified financial statement? if we want to establish the reliability of the tax return objectively, we must check it 100% of the time, and provide all the supporting documents. and that is precisely what neither the tax authorities nor the small businessman are waiting for. i therefore agree with econ if they propose rejecting the commission's proposal. in this case, it is a measure which could be a disadvantage to many small businesses, and this parliament would not want to have that on its conscience, at a time when we so badly need smes for employment.
rapporteur. − mr president, commissioners, dear colleagues – also those who are leaving the room right now – this report was adopted by a large majority in the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) and it is the fruit of a joint effort of all political groups. i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs – who are still present as far as i can see – for their excellent cooperation. econ welcomes in particular the emphasis on consumers. the previous commissioner, mrs kroes, did a splendid job of making the consumer the focus of the competition policies, and we trust commissioner almunia will build on that. that brings me to the first big issue, namely that of cartels. we discussed at great length issues like the most effective sanctions, the fairness of high fines and the feasibility of criminal sanctions. however, before i enter into the details of our discussions, i would like to remind european companies that the best guarantee for escaping sanctions is by simply not engaging in cartels. you may think that you are outsmarting the competition authorities but, in reality, you are doing harm to the consumer. cartels are not smart. they are reprehensible. we therefore welcome the firm stance taken by the european commission on anti-competitive behaviour. it is essential that sanctions punish bad behaviour, in particular of repeat offenders, but they must encourage compliance at the same time. sanctions must have a sufficiently deterrent effect. high fines are an effective tool but, as a single instrument, they may be too blunt. therefore we invite the commission to come up with proposals to make the toolkit more sophisticated and more effective. in the report we suggest looking at issues such as individual responsibility, transparency and accountability of firms, shorter procedures, due process and the development of european standards and corporate compliance programmes. a second key issue is state aid. in the context of the economic crisis huge amounts of state aid have been granted. exceptional circumstances call for exceptional measures. we recognise that, but we should not lose sight of the fact that granting state aid comes at a price. it distorts competition and it leads to record levels of public debt and budget deficits. the bill for this episode will be presented to future generations. we have a duty to justify every single cent that has been spent. i am therefore pleased that econ urges the commission to do a thorough evaluation of the results of the exceptional state aid operation. we would in particular like to see an evaluation of state aid granted for the so-called green recovery. two years ago we were persuaded to accept the recovery package and the state aid measures with the promise that it would be used to bring about the long overdue shift to a sustainable knowledge economy. now we ask you, has the money indeed brought about that shift? what has it been spent on? who were the beneficiaries and what have they actually done for green recovery? we also need clarity, commissioner, about the impact of the state aid exercise in the financial sector and, in particular, its possible distortive effects. i would like now to say a few words on the issue of vertical restraints. we know the current agreement will be revised for may of this year. the european commission previously committed to closely involving the european parliament in the review process. however, to my disappointment, i had to read about the latest version of the proposals in the media. when i then asked the commission to get the same documents as had been leaked to the press, it took considerable arm-twisting to get them and i cannot hide my annoyance at this. the commission should put an end to the systematic and deliberate leaking to the press. to deny that it happens, frankly, is an insult to our intelligence. on substance, the commission proposals allow for discrimination against online retailers who do not have a bricks-and-mortar shop. i have used my prerogative as a rapporteur for tabling an amendment asking the commission to correct this situation. in the 21st century we must encourage, not stifle, competition from online retailers. we call on the commission to put consumer interests over vested interests. we ask the commission to carry out the long overdue sector inquiries, in particular into online advertising, which this house has requested several times. if the commission does not wish to do so, we would like to understand the criteria for refusing. finally, commissioner, we very much welcome commissioner almunia’s pledge to closely involve parliament in shaping competition policies. the economic crisis has clearly shown the need for greater democratic legitimacy of competition policies and in this context i assume that the incident with the document on vertical restraints was just a mistake. we recognise the independence of the commission – and, as a liberal, i certainly do so – but we also expect the commission to closely involve parliament in shaping competition policies along the lines set out in the report. we look forward to the commission’s response. thank you, mr president, for your indulgence.
president barroso, openness and transparency are basic values of any democracy that respects itself. if governments cannot be controlled by the public over their spending, a climate of greed and self-enrichment can develop. we saw this last year in england, for example. the dutch press has reported that president barroso has declared an amount of eur 730 000 for 2009. that's not only ridiculously high, but also a feat of scale. you'd better get your act together and declare 2,000 euros a day. i would like to take this opportunity to thank mr barroso. more seriously, the democratic control of these declarations is of course sad. an internal audit and some pre-approved people get to put their stamp of approval. i insist that this commission, and mr barroso in particular, abandon this culture of silence and make their declarations public and transparent on the internet so that every european citizen can read them. i'd like a response.
mr barroso says that parliament will be given an insight into the declarations, but that is nonsense. everything happens behind closed doors here. everything is covered up. if mr barroso really wants to be held accountable, he will simply make those receipts public. and if he doesn't want to, he should just say so and admit it honestly. mr barroso, if you are simply following all the rules, i do not see any reason why you would not put your vouchers on the internet, or you are simply afraid of the reactions of the citizens. just make them public.
it is right and necessary that this parliament should take account of the plight of the roma. in past centuries, discrimination was sometimes the least of their problems. it is necessary to use european funds and european directives to promote the integration of the roma and to overcome their backwardness. i also think it is important that a good strategy is developed to ensure that the european millions actually reach the people who need them. the emphasis should be on education. we need to equip the roma children to break the negative cycle that unfortunately exists. i would add two elements to this discussion today. first of all, i do not agree with the fact that many roma are still victims. they will also have to take action themselves to remove and eliminate the many abuses in their communities. secondly, european money and european regulations cannot force the integration of the roma. finally, member states, where roma have often lived for many generations, will have to take the lead in tackling the issue of roma integration in their own countries. this is much more of a societal challenge than a political or financial one. european money can and should only serve as a back-up.
mr president, roma, the largest european minority, are suffering from institutional discrimination, anti-gypsyism, extraordinary levels of poverty and social exclusion, segregated systems in housing, education and social welfare. short-term solutions are not an answer to the widespread and deep-rooted problems of roma. we need to evaluate existing good practices, as well as the negative effects of existing policies for the roma population. one, but not the only, example is taking roma children away from their families and putting them in separate boarding schools. these measures do not solve problems: they lead, rather, to more segregation, and impact deeply and negatively on the lives of roma families. europe needs an effective long-term roma strategy. this summit gives us a new opportunity for affirmative action, different from the first roma summit which did not include real political commitments in the eu. the eu should start by setting a good example, by offering more positions to roma people and including roma and civil society in the strategy.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, when preparing for this debate about copyright, intellectual property rights and how we want to protect the creative and intellectual efforts of our fellow citizens, i had to think back to the theft a couple of years ago of a truck containing the new harry potter books, just days before their release. but today the thief would not bother stealing a truck; he would simply illegally download it on to his laptop or mp3 player and carry it across the border. i welcome the commission’s commitment to transparency but, according to the briefing note kindly provided by your services, the assertion that negotiators were required to sign a non-disclosure agreement is incorrect. you have just said that you signed, or the previous commission signed, such an agreement and that you are therefore bound by it. i would like to understand which of the two statements is true. if there is no such non-disclosure clause, all relevant documents must be made immediately and publicly available. if, on the other hand, there is such a clause, we need to hear from the commissioner what he will do to ensure full transparency and information of the public, not just of this house, because restricted access for members of parliament only, subject to confidentiality, is not enough. european citizens have a right to know about decisions that deeply affect their rights and freedoms. in any case, such non-disclosure agreements must become a thing of the past. the eu should in future insist that european standards of transparency apply. the democratic legitimacy of these negotiations is weak. there has not been any debate to establish the aims and principles of the eu. the mandate has not received any parliamentary approval. you may argue that there is no legal requirement but that is beside the point because, if 27 individuals – national ministers – consider that they can give themselves a mandate to negotiate in secret on the fundamental rights and freedoms of european citizens, i can only conclude that their understanding of democracy differs fundamentally from mine. parliament means business. no ‘three strikes out’; no warrantless searches and confiscation of laptops or mobile phones. parliament needs to have watertight guarantees that such clauses will not be introduced via the back door of an international agreement. finally, i wish you an excellent trip to new zealand next month, and please make sure that your ipod does not contain any illegally downloaded material!
mr president, if a case is being cooked up behind closed doors, then all the alarms in my group will go off. acta is one of those files. many in my country wondered why the freedom party should be elected to the european parliament, and here is the reason: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the european cuisine, which is preparing all sorts of tasteless concoctions behind closed doors, without the citizens having a say in the matter. this time we don't even know what european cuisine is. the european parliament must therefore have an opinion on something that is still a secret in the kitchen. can you be any crazier? this is a total disregard for parliament and the citizen. what has been leaked so far about this acta dish is very dismal. the consumer would be the target, and there is the possibility of cutting off the citizen from the internet, and that is very serious. europe has always been the continent where the freedom of people to gather knowledge has been paramount. that freedom is now in direct jeopardy. it can and it can't. the subsidiarity principle is also being violated. the national member states no longer have any say in this matter. my group is in favour of full transparency and is strongly opposed to the criminalisation of the citizen. acta fosters a culture of stifling surveillance and suspicion. the state's watching. acta goes beyond all existing international bodies such as the wto. what is the commission doing in that secret kitchen? and why are there almost exclusively american companies in the negotiations? what are they doing in that kitchen anyway? is it to secure their commercial interests? and what about the interests of the citizens of europe? are they less important? this shows the importance of the pvv. we are fighting for the interests of the citizen, where there is secrecy and backroom politics. let it be clear, by the way, that the freedom party is against the counterfeiting of medicines and products. that's not what this discussion is about. it is about the fact that the members of this parliament cannot make a good statement on this dossier, simply because it is secret and we do not know the contents. we cannot imagine a more serious breach of the parliamentary mandate. as far as we 're concerned , the whole stinking , secret kitchen is shut down and a big sign is put on the door: "closed for breaking the rules".
president, commissioner, an agreement behind closed doors is not what the european citizens deserve, nor do they want. the european union is currently negotiating a very important trade agreement, acta, and it is happening again in back rooms. at no time have either the national parliaments or the european parliament been able to exercise any democratic control over the content and scope of the negotiations. no, the negotiating parties have agreed to a confidentiality clause. the ep and the european citizens are thus once again being left out of the picture. the citizens' confidence in europe is being damaged again. this time it's not about counterterrorism, it's about trade interests. don't get me wrong. the european economy needs to be stimulated and intellectual property is an important part of this. but the uncertainty currently created by the secrecy of the negotiating documents is giving rise to many rumours. i would like to ask how the communication is going between the commerce commissioner and the fundamental freedoms commissioner in this. will mr de gucht inform his colleagues at any time of the content of the agreement? will mrs reding at any time ask her colleague from the commerce committee to be more open? the european parliament calls for this openness. now is the time to provide it before the european parliament has to give its consent to this trade agreement.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, security and defence policy, on the situation in the balkans. the new chinese investment area, after all, covers states that are either already members of the eu or are aspiring to become members. council and commission, how do you view china's role in the balkans? it covers a wide range of economic activities: from financier and contractor of large public works, industrial agricultural tenant to port baron. the crucial point is that china's approach is not at all in line with western standards. the big question now is: does this chinese agenda interfere with the european union's arduous enlargement agenda for this region? however, the chinese clock here also ticks faster and more consistently than the western clock. finally, madam high representative, you are going on a trip to the middle east. noam shalit, the father of israeli soldier gilad shalit, who was abducted nearly four years ago, is counting on your full commitment to free gilad. i'm with you.
mr president, the goldstone report is too one-sided. too much is being done exclusively to israel, while hamas has used civilian targets and civilians as shelter, weapons depot and shield. unfortunately, that's not what goldstone is talking about. the report is a report which is not only a report on the situation in the middle east, but also a report on the situation in the middle east. these countries are not known on our planet for their glorious democracy, nor for their radiant freedom of speech. you hang out with these kinds of countries, you get infected by them. unfortunately, that is what happened to goldstone, and that is why i voted against the joint resolution. it is as one-sided as the goldstone report itself.
president. - the tragic fate of orlando zapato tamayo has caused a great deal of outrage throughout the world. in his hopeless situation, zapato saw no other option but to take action by starving himself. he has paid for his resistance to his imprisonment and the miserable conditions in the cuban prison with his death. why would you do that? what crime did zapato commit to land him in that prison? to hold and to express nonviolently an opinion different from the government's is not a crime. it doesn't make you a criminal or a traitor. zapato's death is not an isolated incident. psychologist and journalist guillermo fariñas has also gone on hunger strike. he wants to force the release of 26 sick political prisoners. what's in store for him? does he have to pay for his action to respect human rights with death? when will the cuban government move? it is estimated that there are still some 200 other political prisoners in the country. the detention of people for their ideals is totally contrary to the universal declaration of human rights. we call on cuba to release these prisoners of conscience immediately and unconditionally and to put an end to this gross violation of human rights. a government cannot control or control the minds of its citizens. even if you keep putting people behind walls and bars, their ideas will live on. attempts to counteract such thoughts and ideas will always be in vain. cuba has years of experience with that, right? the government will have to engage in dialogue with people who think differently. only political dialogue is the instrument for moving forward. that is cuba's obligation to its citizens. because the cuban people deserve democracy and respect for fundamental freedoms. the death of zapato must not go down in history as meaningless and should mark the end of the human rights situation in cuba. the european union must do everything in its power to contribute to the improvement of the human rights situation in cuba. it is not just political prisoners like zapato who are concerned, but also human rights defenders who must be able to do their work in freedom. the cuban government must take care of the cuban people. she can't just lock people up out of fear, treat them like criminals. to deprive citizens of their liberty is a crime.
the european parliament has already expressed its support for the resolution and calls for the necessary condolences, solidarity and direct action. and i want to add a few things to that. firstly, i am pleased that the commission has taken this step and that mr hahn has also looked at how he can move within his operational programmes. that also offers short-term prospects. the problem is more in the solidarity fund. how is it possible that the council has been able to block parliament's action, one position on the flexibilization of the solidarity fund, for years? i think it is very good that mr potočnik has made it so clear that the commission is now taking the initiative. the spanish presidency should have been here today to confirm that. we have to act now. parliament is very angry about the blockade. there's a second element. i myself am from the netherlands. the netherlands is largely below sea level. we too remember the flash flood of 1953 and we know that you have to look ahead. we know that security and prevention must be linked to development in these regions, development in relation to coastal activities. i'm sure you can. in the netherlands, a plan has now been drawn up, a delta plan, linking coastal reinforcement and other matters relating to security and economic development. finally, in 2008, in saint malo on the french coast, an initiative was taken to bring together all coastal regions within the united nations, together with the oecd. there is a united nations plan for disaster prevention in coastal regions and it is precisely that global perspective that is very important. there is a pilot project of the european parliament for 2009-2010, we have supported regions, also financially, to participate. the global dimension is something we must have on the agenda here in the coming period.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. one painful fact caught my eye immediately: for 1355 days, 3 hours, 12 minutes and 37 seconds, the kidnapped gilad has been living completely separated from his father, mother, brother and sister. however, on the same website, i also read a text from the bible book of jeremiah: "and there is hope for your offspring, says the lord; for your children shall return to their own land". noam shalit, here present, place your hope and trust for the release of your dear son above all else in the god of israel. president. - ladies and gentlemen, this afternoon we are debating the gilad shalit case. i have already told noam shalit at a special meeting of the israeli delegation yesterday afternoon that his cause - the release of gilad shalit - is also our cause. let this debate and this resolution be clear signs of that, which naturally require follow-up from the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. i personally confronted baroness ashton about the fact yesterday morning. the shalit case is our case, a european case. i would ask you to do the same in the future. i'm counting on you. let europe make a difference in the middle east. together with noam shalit and his family, we look forward to the fulfillment of the rabbinical prayer for gilad shalit, psalm 126, verse 1: "when the lord brought back the captives of zion, we were like those who dream".
mr president, on june 25, 2006, israeli corporal gilad shalit was abducted in a terrorist infiltration from the gaza strip. he's been held hostage by hamas ever since. hamas has completely sealed shalit off from the outside world. he's locked in the darkest of dungeons, and not even the red cross is allowed to visit him. the shalit case proves once again that europe and israel are in the same boat. there is an all-out war being waged by barbaric islamic forces against western civilization. israel is on the front line of that war. in israel and europe, every human life counts. the european parliament has already said that it is not possible to make a decision on the matter. because hamas demands from israel in exchange for shalit the release of 1,000 prisoners, many of them terrorist killers. it is important that shalit is released, but without israel releasing terrorists in return. after all, we've seen what that kind of extradition brings: a triumphal roar from the terrorists, their supporters and their leaders, and inevitably more terror. terrorism must not pay, and it would be irresponsible for us to encourage israel to respond to this hostage situation with an exchange. because the next hamas hostage could be someone from paris, amsterdam or brussels. so where are we? the rolls must be turned immediately: the european union has not yet made a decision on the question of the palestinian refugees. and the price must be so high that they will release him voluntarily. we therefore call for a complete ban on the entry and transit of all officials of the hamas regime, including those who are not formally affiliated with hamas, including those who are not on the european terrorist list.
mr president, there is no emergency solution for greece yet, and actually that is not a problem at the moment, because even the greek prime minister has said here in parliament that greece itself wants to put things in order. and that is also the way it should be according to the rules of the stability and growth pact. that too is solidarity. still, we have a problem. at the moment, the euro is going down, but that's mainly because of the public debate between capitals that suggests that we can't come to a solution. we must put an end to this now, and hopefully tomorrow. i think that this is an emergency fund for a case of extreme urgency, in which the european commission, the member states and the imf must join hands. emergency loans and nothing more. i hope, mr president, that tomorrow we will look beyond the debate on this crisis. i hope that the medium and long-term solutions will also be considered. we must strengthen the preventive power of the stability and growth pact, and the success of the new 2020 strategy depends - as others have said - on the establishment of a genuine and solid european economic governance. this means not only that the member states must act together at the summit, but also that the european commission must take out of the closet all the powers which it has under the lisbon treaty. all the powers to be able to really act and to enforce things, because freedom and happiness alone - mrs ek said it too - are not enough. madam president, i really hope that we will have that emergency link before the summit starts tomorrow, so that we can talk about how we can get the netherlands out of the crisis with a firm 2020 strategy and also about a solution for how to move forward after copenhagen.
president. - the citizens can now launch a citizens' initiative, now that the treaty of lisbon has entered into force. this is a win, because the citizens are still too far away from europe and it is difficult to involve them in the development of policy. i think the citizens' initiative is a good opportunity to increase the support for europe among the citizens. i would like to draw your attention to a citizen's initiative which has recently been launched. mr martin kastler, who is here, has started an initiative calling for sunday to be set aside as a day of rest and a day for family and reflection. i wholeheartedly and fully support his plea and i will work with him to collect as many signatures as possible in the netherlands. i call on everyone to support and promote this initiative. initiatives like this can be a sign of what the public thinks is important. i call on parliament and the commission to take these signals very seriously, because europe is for the citizen, not the citizen for europe!
mr president, i am very happy with the citizens’ initiative. if you do not mind, i will switch to dutch to explain why i am so happy! voorzitter, ik ben erg blij met het burgerinitiatief, want op deze manier kan de burger niet alleen maar één keer in de vijf jaar aangeven wat hij wil, maar kan hij ook tussentijds een echte rol spelen in de europese unie. daarom is het ook belangrijk dat de burger weet wanneer hij bij ons kan komen aankloppen. het is zo dat hij niet bij ons kan komen aankloppen, maar bij de europese commissie. weet de gemiddelde burger wel wanneer hij naar de europese commissie kan? daar is een enorme informatiecampagne voor nodig. ik moet dan ook zeggen dat het kritische punt hierbij is dat het burgerinitiatief pas echt volwassen is als alle europese instellingen de 1 miljoen stemmen, de 1 miljoen burgers serieus nemen en ook ministers en regeringsleiders zouden daar naar moeten luisteren. natuurlijk is het dan zo: als 1 miljoen europese burgers afschaffing willen van straatsburg, dan moet ook daarnaar worden geluisterd.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development and cooperation. - mr president, dear mr janusz lewandowski, the economic crisis will inevitably put pressure on the european budget. that's just the way it is. in brussels too, every public euro must be turned over three times before it is issued. nevertheless, investment in developing countries - and i am speaking on behalf of the committee on development - must remain a priority. sustainable growth in poor countries offers opportunities to people who don't have them yet. but their development is also part of the way out of our crisis. developing countries are a market, a fast-growing market. europe will only have to use the money more wisely, as with a mix of grants and loans to support microfinance. better access to financial services in poor countries will enable people to achieve their ambitions there too. we must protect the development budget, however difficult that may be. the european commissioner for development, mr piebalgs, should continue to be responsible for his own budget, and not high representative ashton, as the plan now seems to be. because choices in poverty reduction must not and never be made dependent on our diplomatic interests.
mr president, we are living in difficult times financially and economically. everyone should tighten their belts and governments should also control spending and cut back. i am also very concerned about the lack of confidence that citizens have in european politics. i therefore make two proposals for the next budget. first of all, we all, the members of the european parliament, must be as accountable for our general allowance of eur 4 200 per month as we are for all our other allowances. it is not yet the case and i do not think that is transparent. i shall also table an amendment to that effect at our april partsession when we discuss mr staes' report. the second point, mr president, concerns the budgets of the national information offices of the european parliament. i think they are very generous and i think they should be reduced by one third over a period of three years. i call on my colleagues to support these proposals. we are therefore, mr president, showing our willingness to be transparent and not to be self-indulgent.
mr president, the 2011 budget puts us at the forefront of the priorities of the european union. in these economically difficult times, the union must first of all realise that it receives its financial resources from the member states. well, they've got drastic cuts coming. it is not only the member states that must cut back, but the european union too must therefore reduce its public resources and use them more effectively. i have a substantive question on the rapporteur's priority for young people. social and youth affairs can generally be handled well by the member states. i would like to draw attention to one area where the support of the european union is really indispensable. the report mentions the transition of young people from education to the labour market. the rapporteur, would you also like to pay attention to the specific needs of vulnerable young people? i ask this in the interests of young people who have grown up in orphanages. they have a great lack of vocational guidance. i was in bulgaria last month and saw a really inspiring example of this. i welcome european support for such initiatives by the member states, for example in the context of the structural funds. i'm counting on you.
mr president, mr rehn and mr trichet were right to comment on today's situation. the greek position within the eurozone is very precarious and the possible solution, in my view, lies with the international monetary fund. today, as we speak, the imf is the right organization to offer greece a helping hand to get out of the crisis. if that fails, then decisiveness is needed and knots must be hammered through. countries that do not play by the rules in the eurozone must leave the game. mr president, let us also learn from the situation. greece's entry into the eurozone was as unpredictable as the oracle of delphi. the figures submitted were unclear and unreliable. it is wrong that the greek government continues to insist on a solution from other euro countries because they are partly to blame for the current crisis in greece. that's the world upside down. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. i therefore have a specific question for mr trichet and mr rehn: mr president, i would like to ask you to take this opportunity to thank the commissioner for his report. if not, shouldn't you have known? i hope you can give me a concrete answer to this question.
mr president, the situation in which greece and the eurozone have found themselves is deplorable. financial assistance for greece should come primarily from the international monetary fund. the imf itself indicates that it is well equipped to assist greece. the creation of a european monetary fund seems to have been motivated above all by political considerations, namely the loss of europe's face in a greek appeal to the imf. but let us not be quick to set up a new body as a remedy for non-compliance with existing rules. the necessity and desirability of a possible emf are questionable. the sanctions provided for in the stability and growth pact should be used more actively to enforce compliance. the council is really moving now. eurostat should be given the scope to closely monitor the budgetary figures of the euro countries and thus the respect of the stability and growth pact.
the european council was mainly concerned with the problems in the euro zone and the 2020 strategy which must put europe back on the path of growth and jobs for our citizens. all the heads of government agreed to strengthen the economic governance structure in europe and to commit to much stronger coordination of economic policies in europe. that sounds promising. it could even be a historic moment in european integration, but for now it is above all a promise for the future. it will depend a great deal on the impact in the months and years ahead. after all, promises do not count for our citizens in the european union. for our citizens, the only thing that counts is the results. president van rompuy, on behalf of the ppe group, i would like to commend you for your efforts. you have made a strong start as the first permanent president of the european council and you have the important task of further building the european council into an institution with a real political commitment to the economic governance of the european union. we look forward to the results that you and your task force will produce and we are convinced that with your commitment and perseverance you will be able to do the job. the urgency is great. what we need is decisiveness and action. i challenge you to come here to discuss the results of the task force and to debate them with us, because the task is enormous. that is why it is so important to work hand in hand with the european commission and also with this european parliament as the representative of the citizens in the european union. we expect both of you to respect our institutional role fully and to involve us actively, not only afterwards but also in advance of the development of the proposals. the ppe group is looking forward to the european commission's proposals for greater economic coordination in the field of monetary policy. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. we also expect the european commission to play a very active role in the further development of the 2020 strategy. we call on the commission to make full use of the instruments it has been given under the lisbon treaty, including in assessing the member states' commitment. it is clear to the ppe group and to many other groups in this parliament that the open method of coordination must give way to binding commitments and a healthy mix of positive incentives and sanctions where necessary, and we expect both of you to come forward with convincing proposals quickly. finally, on greece. our group chairman, joseph daul, has praised the council for its decision on a new mechanism to be able to lend a helping hand to greece, if necessary, with the involvement of the imf. this plan rightly places solidarity and responsibility at its core. but the situation is still worrying, and that is why i repeat it here: solidarity works in two ways. greece will have to respect the commitments made by actually implementing the reform plans. can greece regain confidence in the financial markets? that will be essential in the way out of the crisis.
mr president, mr farage, you have again spoken on behalf of a great many europeans who do not like this europe. thank you for that. this debate is a big show. the new fake president van rompuy, appointed in the back rooms, congratulates barroso and the commission on the financial rescue of greece. the bottom line is that dutch taxpayers could once again be paying a lot of money. let us not forget that greece has been deceiving the european countries for years with falsified figures. mr van rompuy, you say that you have pressed greece to take tough measures. hard measures by greece. well, greece is raising the retirement age from 61 to 63. yes, the highest-paid european citizens can only dream of that, because the dutch government is even proposing to raise the retirement age from 65 to 67. in greece, they retire at 63 and we can start paying for it. what happened to all the tough talk from the christian democrats? the dutch cda, represented by mrs wortmann-kool. a few weeks ago your party said that not a penny of dutch taxpayers would go to greece. angela merkel, also big words. not a penny will go to the pensions of the greeks. so what happens now? they're out of order. weak knees. the words prove worthless. the greek people are already getting financial support for their falsified figures, and who will get it next? portugal, spain, hungary, you name it. even the liberals of verhofstadt and van baalen, yes, the dutch vvd, are now promising soft loans to weak countries and a european monetary fund. mr van baalen, where are you to counter mr verhofstadt? this is pure voter fraud. you promised less europe in the elections and we are getting more. in your own group, there is a call for it. ladies and gentlemen, the european union is not the solution to the problems, but the european union has created the problems.
i think it is a wise decision, mr president, to postpone the votes, because although the number of members required for a quorum is present, the geographical distribution is not. i would, however, suggest that the remaining agenda be compressed so that we end 24 hours earlier than usual and not wednesday at midnight, but wednesday at the end of the afternoon, as we normally do on thursday. at least the people who are there can still travel home and we don't have to stay on thursday.
member of the commission. − madam president, again i would like to thank the committee on transport and tourism for its support for this technical recast and i hope that the vote in plenary will confirm it. today’s debate was on a broader scale and it will help to propose a methodology. commission vice-president kallas will send the proposal to the college on 5 may. it took a bit of time because this new commission has not been in place for long, and it takes some time for the new college to prepare proposals. what i take away from this debate is that this house very strongly supports trans-european network policy. i believe that without a well-interconnected infrastructure, in transport or in energy or in telecommunications, it is very difficult to speak about europe. i believe this debate will help us to shape our proposal for methodology, which basically means that the committee on transport will have a chance to speak about it if everything goes well in may.
- i'm the reporter. - mr president, there is a lot to be said about european transport policy. i'm not going to do that, i'm going to concentrate on a few key points and a few main lines. firstly, there is the interest of the sector. 80% of world trade is carried by sea and the european fleet has a 41% share of that global market. within the european market, 40% of all goods are transported by sea. so this is a crucial economic sector which is facing global competition. when you realize that, the second spearhead, competition, actually follows. we know that many countries around the world support their navies in a variety of ways. if we leave that to europe, in a few years all our ships will be sailing to hong kong or singapore. that would not only be detrimental to the fleet but, more importantly, the entire maritime cluster would be hit. employment on shore, in banks, shipyards, insurance companies, logistics companies, training and educational institutions, companies active in the field of innovation and improvement of environmental performance would be dealt an insurmountable blow by the departure of our fleet. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is about providing fiscal facilities, such as a tonnage tax system for ships and tax advantages for seafarers and shipowners. this is the only way in which the maritime sector and clusters can remain relevant in europe in the long term. i have a question for the commissioner. when will the european commission come up with rules on state aid to seaports? that proposal was supposed to come in the autumn, but i don't know what year that autumn is. i am interested in transparency and accountability in the way aid is provided. we should not start supporting terminals which are not in operation, nor should we start supporting ports which are geographically very close to third countries' ports. in either case, that is giving vitamin supplements to a dead horse. in this context, i would like to make a comment on paragraph 5 of the motion for a resolution, which refers to 'flags of convenience' in the english text. i think that is a misunderstanding and i would have preferred to have read the only correct term here, namely 'substandard' ships. what we do not want are flags and ships which evade the minimum standards of safety and social standards. it is a question of the quality of the flag, and the so-called cheap flag is certainly not automatically a flag of convenience. finally, an important point of reference, namely to make the maritime sector attractive to young people. europe is ageing fast and needs to do more for its young people. the information on the maritime sector and on shipping cannot be started too early, and i was pleased to hear that shipowners' organisations are already working in primary schools to educate young people about working at sea. so far in this first round, a few points from me and i shall be happy to go over what the colleagues and the commissioner have to say when i have the floor.
member of the commission. − mr president, this has been a fascinating debate and definitely strengthens the excellent report by mr van dalen. i think it is well done because there is nothing more difficult than to write a report on strategy in general, because strategy is an instrument which really has a longer-term vision and at the same time it needs to concentrate on main points. we are working now in the college to prepare a detailed road map for implementation. by the summer we could come out with this. i should like to refer to three specific questions. one concerns state aid guidelines for ports. this is under discussion in the commission’s dg on competition and with a former commissioner for competition and they really would like us, as a commission, to work in line together, so it will take some time. i cannot give any precise time lines but we are working on it. on the marco polo issue, we have discussed the issues relating to the trans-european transport network, so this discussion will be related to this. on maritime ports, we do not have any legislation at this stage in the pipeline. finally, thank you once again, mr president and honourable members, for this debate. it was really very helpful for the commission.
- i'm the reporter. - thank you, mr president, and thank you to all colleagues. i think this report is a good example of constructive cooperation between the various groups. i want to address three points of spearhead that have also been mentioned by some of you. first of all, the environment, that's crucial. the environmental performance of shipping also needs to be improved and i have set out a number of directions in my report. in particular, the levy on bunker fuel with poor environmental performance is an idea which the commission hopes will be taken up again. finally, the concept of the green ports, as some of my colleagues have already mentioned. in a green port, an environmentally friendly ship is handled more quickly and also gets a reduction in its port dues. such a concept is a bonus for good environmental behaviour. so that's kind of how you combine a bonus and a minus system. if you do well in the environmental field, you give that an advantage, and if you do badly, you will soon find that your wallet is empty. i strongly advocate such a system. then safety, starting with safety. as one of my colleagues has already said, the member states must now implement the third maritime package swiftly. it's needed. mr ţicău has already mentioned the paris memorandum of understanding. indeed, the supervision is now changing and going to a risk-based supervision, which is much better than such a fixed percentage. that way, the oversight can get a huge boost and good behavior is rewarded. there must be some good behavior. slovakia is still not on the white list and must make an effort. i myself have also emphasized shipbuilding and ship maintenance. we know that in times of economic downturn, maintenance is quickly displaced. of course, that is not possible, so especially classrooms are in high demand these days. we fully support the atalanta mission against piracy it's a good mission and it's already a success. last week a dutch navy frigate helped to free a german merchant ship. i think we should work together. all shipowners must cooperate and join the convoy, and you cannot go it alone. finally, i would like to thank the commissioner and the commission, and we would like to see how this report is translated into the road map.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i am very happy to present to parliament the report on the action taken by the commission regarding the effects of the european airspace crisis as a result of the volcanic eruption of eyjafjallajökull. the house will know that 84 000 flights have been cancelled, affecting thousands of passengers. as you know, eurocontrol, at our initiative, convened a telephone conference on monday morning and the commission participated actively yesterday afternoon in an extraordinary council of transport ministers. there are, in my view, four key messages to convey following the council. all the transport ministers are in favour of a coordinated european response to the crisis. national solutions are not effective in dealing with these kinds of problems, which affect airspace globally. i must underline that the spirit of cooperation amongst the transport ministers was high and we have had several telephone conversations where everybody stated they were ready to take responsibility and cooperate. the second important point is that safety comes first. there cannot be any compromise on safety. this is, and remains, our fundamental concern. we have to ensure the highest safety standards for our citizens. the third principle is that the ministers agreed to the progressive and coordinated opening of european airspace while ensuring safety. this started this morning at 8.00, through eurocontrol. three types of zones are included in this decision, based on the degree of contamination. the first of these zones is located at the nucleus of the emissions, where total restriction of operations will be maintained, given that it is impossible to guarantee its safety. the second of the zones is one which will not, in principle, impede air traffic cooperation being carried out, even though ash is still present. that zone will need to be confirmed, and the decisions on operations will be taken in a coordinated manner by the authorities in the member states. the third zone is not affected by ash, resulting in no restrictions of any type on operations. eurocontrol is providing maps every six hours with the relevant information for the national authorities. fourth, through these measures we are ultimately anticipating the implementation of the single european sky programme and, in particular, the functions of the network manager. i know i can count on the strong support of parliament following the success of the second single european sky package last year. you will know, and the ministers mentioned, that a taskforce – a group of commissioners – has been organised to discuss state aid issues. yesterday i talked with airline representatives and they said that they are simply not ready yet to assess their losses. the main question for them, owing to all the economic consequences, is to resume flights. the model for resuming flights is the most important thing. we should not panic about state aid and any other measures to help the air transport sector. passenger rights is another important issue, and we must enforce the implementation of passenger rights. the rules are good ones. everyone shares the view that the rules are good. the question is enforcement, which again is in the hands of the member states. we should really push ahead with that and have several ideas on how to better enforce the rules. i would now like to comment on what are, in my view, deliberate attempts to confuse things – who should do what, who has done what and what the models are. it is clear that in some countries elections are coming up, and so on, but after the volcanic eruption all the decisions made were based on existing and agreed models on how to handle these kinds of situation. this model is intergovernmental and airspace is a national competence. it is not the commission which is giving the orders – there are rules covering our national systems and our model, to repeat, is based on existing information and existing assessments. there is nothing wrong with that model. we can now think about how to modify the model. we started discussing this yesterday. to say that the european model completely failed is totally wrong. this was, and is, an extraordinary event. the eruption of such a volcano and the unexpected widespread cloud of ash is something which has happened on very rare occasions in the world – it is not like snow or the like, which occurs often. it was already clear at the weekend that the situation was turning into something very exceptional, and over the weekend we had several discussions on how to approach the issue. to say that the transport ministers should have intervened immediately is completely contrary to our understanding of how things are organised in europe. those kinds of decisions are in the hands of independent experts and independent bodies. myself and minister lópez garrido were at eurocontrol on sunday, and i was in contact with all the transport ministers of the larger member states. we were ready to take responsibility and ask what we should do to resolve the situation. however, these cannot be arbitrary decisions, but are in the hands of a special body. that body held a meeting, and we held discussions with it, on sunday. these were very difficult discussions, as what was under consideration were people’s lives. on monday morning there was an extraordinary eurocontrol council, which agreed on the so-called ‘free zones’ model. we were very happy that eurocontrol was cooperative. to repeat, this was not within the community’s competence at all, but events have shown that a national approach was an obsolete approach. we definitely have a greater impetus now to create a more european approach to these kinds of events and to regulate them. we must also, of course, assess the consequences and outcome. the main thing – as everybody, including the airlines, said – was that it was very important to resume flights. concerning passengers, the most important thing is to get people back home or to their destinations. that was the key issue addressed yesterday. to sum up, we are working intensively with the council and with eurocontrol to monitor the situation, and if necessary to take new decisions. the model provided for now is quite suitable for resuming the vast majority of flights.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the safety of aircraft. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why it is important that we have this urgent debate in this parliament today. passengers are stuck, airlines, the travel industry, businesses that depend on air travel, all have been hit hard. and that's on top of the economic crisis. safety is of the utmost importance. we must not allow any misunderstanding about that. passengers must be transported safely, but it's clear we were not properly prepared for this extraordinary situation. the closure of airspace on the first day was a quick response to a problem unknown in europe, the ash cloud. but what did we see in the days after? the computer models showed that no flights were allowed, but test flights went smoothly. of course, once again, safety is paramount, but it is important that the opening up of european airspace be based on facts and real principles. more tailor-made work is needed and it is good that the first steps were taken yesterday and that it must be built up quickly. the ability to fight. safety first, but safe zones must also be able to be used again quickly. of course, structural measures are also needed. the single european sky, which is so much resisted by the member states, can also help us to make aviation much more efficient. airline companies have suffered great economic damage. the closure of air traffic, but also the cost of the assistance to be provided to stranded passengers, was high. insurance does not cover anything and it is questionable whether it is justified to put all the costs on the airlines. i therefore call on you to examine quickly what costs have been incurred, what damage has been suffered and where compensation may be available. let me give you an example. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. is it not obvious that we should consider whether we can afford to do so from the european budget in this situation of overwhelming power? commissioner almunia, you have indicated that you are sympathetic to state aid, but i want to warn you, because we must prevent member states from sponsoring their national champions. that is why it is extremely important that it be coordinated at european level. not only the state aid framework, but also the actual granting of state aid. i would like to call you to that.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transport sector is not affected by the effects of climate change. a not-so-large volcano in iceland is erupting, and air traffic has been grounded in large parts of europe for days. i think it is right that we have at least reached a partial resumption of the cancelled flights today. i think that is also justified and can be done, because test flights have shown that it can be flown, especially under the current good visibility conditions. at the same time, i think we have been too rigid to shut down air traffic so completely in one fell swoop. a comparison has been made with the klm flight that crashed into the volcanic dust of mount redoubt over alaska in 1989. it is also quick to refer to the british airways flight over indonesia which hit volcanic dust in 1982. remember, both those flights were completely buried in the dust of recently erupted volcanoes and relatively close to them. the density and heat of the dust particles in those flights cannot be compared to the current situation. i therefore welcome the approach which takes account of the differences in the concentration of the volcanic dust. if you take that approach - and it will happen - then it is right that we should open up some of the airspace already, especially on certain corridors and at certain altitudes. i think that opening up is also very necessary, because the icelandic ash is choking cash from our airlines. i don't mind that this crisis may cause a few weak brothers in aviation to fall. but it must not be that large and reputable companies that put safety first would also fail. it's a lot of money and a lot of jobs. then we have to work with a realistic approach that takes into account the concentration of the dust particles. the airspace can rightly be reopened today for certain parts and that pragmatic approach must also apply in the future so that a good and, above all, safe and responsible balance between safety and economy is achieved.
president. - i have received a request for an early vote to wind up the debate on the following motions for resolutions: that is the word we hear far too often these days, the word crisis, economic crisis, financial crisis, transport crisis, you name it. if one thing is clear, it's that our society is very vulnerable to these kinds of crises. we need a safety net. we talk a lot about a green society. a green society also means green transport and we are clearly not ready yet. many in my group and others have already said: it is really, really necessary that we invest in green transport and better and faster connections within the eu - but of course also outside the eu if we can influence it - by rail and why not by boat as well. that is good for the economy, good for the climate and also good for the stability of this society, because it badly needs it.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i learned from a reliable source, a dutch ngo, that this has hardly used any local expertise. to create a base of support among the population, i think that is a first requirement. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the progress of the reconstruction work in haiti. european ngos can be particularly helpful in this regard through their good local contacts and i was pleased to hear from both commissioners that they are thinking in this direction - creating a base in haiti itself. another point. the food aid provided by the united states and other countries seems to be a good initiative, but it has seriously disrupted agriculture and food security in haiti. this situation has led to the country becoming more than 50% dependent on food imports and 35% of the harvest not receiving any deduction. there is a need for a substantial investment in local agriculture to ensure food security and here again i heard in the statements of both commissioners that the commission is thinking in the same direction, so that gives me great courage. on this very day i read in the frankfurter allgemeine a whole page on the current situation in haiti. it's really heartbreaking. housing, education, i hear these are priorities for the european commission. keep it up. i wish you much success and above all god's help.
mr president, mrs georgieva and mr piebalgs, after the enormous tragedy in haiti we must - and you both have said this - look to the future. the donor conference in new york two weeks ago raised 7 billion euros. at least, that was the promise. the eu has committed 1.6 billion on the basis of the action plan of the haitian government. the question now is for you both: how will this be translated into a sustainable and stable reconstruction of the island? i think this is going to be a long process, by the way. my second question to both of you is: how do you assess the action plan of the haitian government and how can you ensure that the generous resources now committed are used efficiently? the people have needs not only for the short term but also for the long term. how can we further intensify the reception of these 1.3 million homeless people and ensure that the infrastructure can be rebuilt in the medium term? this is important not only for the people affected but also for the political stability of the island. the state is incredibly fragile right now. you've said that before. the people have the feeling that the aid is not getting to the places where it is needed. how can we ensure that the political situation on the island and the approach of the government are improved? i would like to ask you how you see the input, in terms of both human beings and financial means, to this interim haiti recovery commission chaired by bill clinton?
the european union is not a party to the gatt, but it is a party to the gatt, and it is not a party to the gatt. first point: the european union is also calling for the full cooperation of the latin american countries, and in particular of brazil as a permanent member of the security council, in all international efforts to find a peaceful solution to the nuclear conflict with iran. so real cooperation and support for that. second point: the european union calls on the member states to take all necessary steps to ensure that the peace process in the region is not disrupted by the threat of terrorism. this is particularly true of venezuela, where hezbollah is not exactly quiet, and iran is not exactly quiet either. third point: the european union is also calling for the full cooperation of the latin american countries in combating the worldwide evil of anti-semitism. another point of great concern is president chavez of venezuela, but he is not alone, unfortunately. the stephen roth institute recently published a report, and it says some very unpleasant things about it. finally, the european press was explicitly silent last week on china's advance in latin america. will the european union be caught between these two strategic partners of brussels?
in recent months, mr president, latin america has become more and more visible and tangible in the european union's interest after having been an under-represented region for the eu for many years. the european commission published a communication on the two regions as global players and partners, and association agreements are now being negotiated in full. i cannot but endorse the strategic importance of good relations with latin america. i am thinking in particular of the negotiations under way for an association agreement with central america. the final round started yesterday and the aim is to put the final touches on the i and to really conclude the negotiations. although i am in the core of the case for an association agreement with central america, i cannot stress enough that respect for human rights is of the utmost importance. this agreement should contribute to improving the human rights situation in central america and should be a constant incentive for those countries to respect human rights. the eu has a responsibility in this regard, even after the signing of the agreement. it is not just a trade agreement that is being concluded. we are also linked by political dialogue and cooperation. the association agreement is important for central america. the region is characterized by a high level of poverty and this agreement should contribute to the economic progress of the people there. the eu must therefore not close its eyes during the negotiations to the fact that europe and central america are not equal partners in this agreement. the agreement will have to take due account of the unequal starting positions of both regions and the asymmetry in the agreement is therefore of great importance. in short, it should be a balanced agreement, benefiting not only europe or large companies based in central america. no, above all it must improve the situation of the citizens, of the small businessmen. finally, a region-by-region approach has been adopted. i would stress that this is the way it should be completed, so that no country is left behind in relation to its neighbours.
i have a question for mrs schroedter. in her analysis, she takes a very negative approach. my question to her is whether it is not right that the decentralized authorities which implement the programmes in the member states bear their own responsibility within the strategic framework agreed by country and within the rules, thanks to the co-financing? why does she paint such a negative picture today? there is no reason to attach that to this proposal today.
mr president, unusual times call for unusual measures. today, in fact, a long-cherished wish of this parliament has been fulfilled, namely that simplification be achieved and results be achieved more quickly. we are ultimately concerned with maintaining and creating jobs, and this week - as mr hahn has already pointed out - figures have once again come out showing what cohesion policy can do: 1.4 million additional jobs in that period. the european funds can now be spent more quickly and easily across the board, not only on the major projects but also on the smaller ones, always for the sake of innovation, improving the environment, urban development, etc. there is one point on which parliament did not agree, and that was the abolition of cofinancing. that is one of the foundations of our system in which national governments, local authorities and, where possible, private individuals contribute to this joint project of regional and urban development. so the point is - another point we have agreed to - that payment should be made over a longer period, not after two years, but after three years. there is money on the table, there is co-financing and at the moment when there is some delay, it is good to let these valuable projects go ahead. then the money is not out of the region, no, it is spent. we did that before 2007. i would ask mr hahn if he could not have that good example followed by another good example. why don't we do that for 2008 and for 2009? that would be a very good move. can you answer that? finally, we can also consider this solidarity. there are countries which do not use their esf resources and simply leave 30%, 40% unspent. why has there not been solidarity and transfer of resources? then you'd be sacrificing, and that's just fine. that is true solidarity. it didn't happen. so i am appropriately positive, especially towards the rapporteur. now it's taken three quarters of a year. can this be completed in two or three months, as mrs krehl has already said, in the next joint round between parliament, the council and the commission?
i can accept, mr president, that the european court of auditors is not here, but what you have just said about the absence of the council, also in recent years, only shows that it is a structural problem and not an incidental one. it is a sign of the council's attitude to the responsible use of european money and in fact your message only makes the council's absence worse. for that reason, and in order to send a very clear signal to the council as a parliament, i would suggest that we postpone today's debate on discharge to the council and not deal with this subject today.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. - mr president, the 2008 budget of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection is not so remarkable. the discussion in committee and in the reports have already brought a lot of clarity. we saw a pretty steep underspend at solvit in 2008, but that's going to pick up in 2009 and 2010. i would like to ask the commissioner to ensure that the solvit budget is used properly. i understand that if there is a budget, we must spend it responsibly, but i can see that there is still a lack of information in this area. in addition, perhaps a comment on the services directive, which was introduced in december 2009. there is simply a great need in the european union for information on this directive. president. - the next item is the report (doc. it is not a subject which we should discuss here, but we do see that the member states do not control the import of goods sufficiently and i would once again call on the commission to think further about this with the member states so that the import of goods is at least properly controlled. finally, mr president, as has been pointed out by several of my colleagues and even by the commissioner, the budgetary rules are still very complicated in a number of respects, and that means that the control mechanisms involved are also very complicated. i therefore support all calls for simplification and at least improvement.
i am a great fan of the british rock band genesis. the band genesis has made a beautiful song and it's called dance on a vulcano. that number got me thinking this week, which was pretty much dominated by volcanic ash. not to go to iceland and dance. no, i was thinking of this song dance on a vulcano in connection with the debate we are having here this morning on the accountability of expenditure in 2008, the year on which the european court of auditors was again unable to give its approval. i see the parallel with dancing on a volcano. a volcano not filled with lava or ash, but with mistrust, because europe is under heavy pressure for all sorts of reasons: the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the euro. that's enough to sharpen this proverbial volcano. what we cannot use is this volcano erupting because of poor financial accountability, because of mistrust among the citizens. how are we gonna stop that? as far as i 'm concerned , there 's only one way to do that . transparency. optimal transparency across all institutions. the council, the member states - i am glad the council is still here - precisely because it is the main source of the irregularities that are detected every year. i also call on the member states: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i do not understand why this is constantly prevented from happening by the member states. i am convinced that if the member states were to treat their own money in the same way, this would be unacceptable to their own citizens. but, frankly, greater transparency is also needed in our own parliament. bart staes has rightly drawn up a very critical report and after the many improvements that have been made in recent years, it is now time to finally open the windows and show the european citizens through openness that we can handle their money responsibly, because that is what it is all about. finally, mr president, the relationship between the council and parliament. some 40 years ago, a gentlemen's agreement was needed to allow each other to work in relative peace and not to fight in the streets. that was very useful back then. in fairness, we have to say that this is not really working now, because we are fighting in the streets. i think it is even more important that the council and parliament have now become strong, mature institutions and that they should be able to control each other in a mature way, without gentlemen's agreement. i would ask the council, now that it is here, whether it can respond to this and whether the council also considers it possible to control each other properly without gentlemen's agreement. the council and parliament can dance together in harmony without fear of the ground disappearing under their feet, without fear of further mistrust from citizens leading to an outbreak.
mr president, the high error rate makes me critical of the european commission's discharge. we are still not doing enough to simplify the rules, especially for the structural funds. four independent advisory panels made a proposal to which the european commission did not respond sufficiently. independent external review within the impact assessment service of the european commission is really essential. if this is implemented by mr stoiber's high-level group, then that group should also receive sufficient resources for the necessary secretarial support. moreover, a broader mandate is needed. reducing not only the administrative burden but also the substantive compliance costs. nor should the mandate be limited to existing regulations. the new legislation also deserves critical scrutiny. we are therefore, mr president, contributing to a structural reduction in the rules which unnecessarily hinder the functioning of public authorities and companies.
mr president, the report by mr staes contains a very important paragraph entitled: the members of the european parliament as public persons. that is a very apt name. every member of this parliament is a public figure who must be able to give an account to the public at any time of how he or she works and, above all, how he or she has managed the budgets made available by the taxpayer. we are all dealing with the money of the citizens. so they have a right to know how we spend that money. in parliament, accountability has improved a great deal in recent years, but not all members' money needs to be accounted for. i am referring in particular to the maximum of eur 4 200 per member per month for general expenses. i now have to pay a hefty sum of money every year to hire an outside accountant to do that accounting. that's weird. i know. we must simply be accountable to the services of parliament, just as we are to our travel and subsistence costs. i would therefore like to see your support for amendment no 33 to paragraph 65 on this.
mr president, a great deal has been said in this debate, so i would like to limit myself to two points. first of all, the discharge for parliament, because if you want to control others, you have to be very critical of your own budget. mr staes has presented a report on this subject which i would have voted for with all my heart six or seven years ago, but in the six or seven years that have passed, many things have changed for the better. i am thinking of the reimbursement of travel expenses actually incurred, the staff regulations, etc. the good thing is that mr staes mentioned it in his speech just now. it is a pity that these achievements are not yet in the report and i hope that we can correct this in the vote in two weeks' time so that we will have a balanced report in the end. i have every confidence that this will happen. secondly, mr president, a general point, because i think we are going to have a difficult budgetary debate in the coming years. despite the additional tasks we have after lisbon, our budget is not expected to increase in the new period and that also means that, more than ever, we will have to achieve several policy objectives simultaneously with one single expenditure in the context of european spending. this, mr president, requires a court of auditors which can actually check the effectiveness of this multiple expenditure and which does not simply check that the rules have been observed. our court of auditors cannot do this at the moment. so if we want to draw up an efficient budget for the new budgetary period, which is also auditable, we need a different court of auditors. i therefore propose, mr president, that in future the court of auditors should be present at budgetary debates and budgetary control debates. i would also like to hear from the european commission how it intends to meet this challenge.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i too very much welcome today’s debate where parliament will set out its expectations with regard to the negotiations directives. the fact that parliament will not vote on its resolution this week is clearly very unfortunate but it should not, and i repeat, it should not inhibit council from going ahead with the adoption as scheduled. parliament’s views are being put forward as we speak, and it is no secret that council and the commission are already fully aware of the resolution and its content. in this respect i can only say that i do appreciate the new spirit of cooperation demonstrated by both the council and the commission to engage with this house. now following the negotiations directive, the envisaged eu-us agreement is to ensure rights on an equal basis, regardless of the nationality of any person whose data are processed in accordance with the agreement. now, my question is, what does that mean? what are these specific rights in that case in relation to, for example, access, rectification, deletion, compensation and redress? please enlighten me here. furthermore, i would like to underline, like my colleagues did, that the principles of proportionalities and necessity are key to the envisaged agreement. the fact, and i repeat it once more, the fact that financial measuring data profiles are unable, for whatever reason, to search the content of the messages leading to the transfer of data in bulk cannot be subsequently rectified by mechanisms of oversight and control, as basic principles of data protection law have already been compromised. to be honest i do have some doubts whether this issue is going to be solved on the basis of the current negotiations directives. furthermore, it is important to know that the agreement on mutual legal assistance is not an adequate basis for requests to obtain data for the purposes of the tftp. after all the agreement on mutual legal assistance does not apply to bank transfers between third countries and it would demand prior identification of a specific bank whereas the tfcp is based on searches for fund transfers. it is therefore crucial, and i would like to stress that, it is therefore crucial that negotiations focus on finding a solution to make one compatible with the other. we can, of course, insist on a redesign of the tftp but honestly in the end this is not in our hands really and i can therefore only urge the council and the commission, like mr busuttil did, to address the fundamental policy decisions straight away. i do expect a clear and binding commitment on the part of both the council and the commission to undertake all that is necessary to effectively introduce a durable, legally sound, european solution to the extraction of data on european soil. let me stress once more that the transfer and storage of data in bulk to a foreign power, even if it concerns our best friends, is and remains by definition, disproportionate. it marks a huge departure from eu legislation and practice. the rule of law is crucially important and in this context parliament must be extremely mindful in assessing envisaged agreements such as the one we are discussing today. i do support, like others, a strong outwards-looking eu that is capable of acting shoulder to shoulder, as an equal partner, with the us. in that framework i can only underline once more that it is the eu that needs to lay down the principles on how europe will cooperate with the us for counterterrorism purposes, including law enforcement and the use of data collected for commercial ends. getting it right should be the objective, and the european legal demands for the fair, proportionate and lawful processing of personal information are of paramount importance and must always be upheld. now it is for the council and the commission to put this into concrete action as soon as possible and to negotiate an agreement that meets all of the eu and us expectations.
president. - i am sorry, mr president, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the motion for a resolution. this parliament is concerned both with fundamental rights and the protection of the privacy of citizens and with data protection. these are fundamental rights, and with fundamental rights you don't make a simple cost-benefit analysis. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. i do not believe that any of this is not technically possible and i think it is more a matter of money and cost. as i said, when it comes to fundamental rights, it's not simply about how much it costs. it is also important that europe should present itself as an equal negotiating partner, not one that simply gives cups or waits for the us to set the rules. parliament has given the council and the commission the power and the scope to play this role seriously now, and i would ask you, commission and council, to take account of the european convention on human rights, which is now in force. we shall also have to see that reflected in your mandate and in the outcome of your negotiations. i hope you come back with the right thing, i hope you use the power and authority that we gave you last time, and i look forward to seeing what you come back with.
president, commission and council, the european commission's draft mandate is a step in the right direction. the fight against terrorism is our priority. it is therefore important that a new agreement on the exchange of financial data with the usa be reached as soon as possible, but not at any price. in february we voted overwhelmingly against a bad interim agreement with the united states. we have said no to the exclusion of the european parliament, which represents 500 million citizens. citizens do not want their bank details to go to the us without proper safeguards for their rights. we want an agreement that properly safeguards the rights of our european citizens. if that is not the case with this negotiating mandate, then we are in a situation not very different from that of february. there must be some very good reasons for me to say yes now. the council and the commission must inform the european parliament fully and immediately. it is good that the european parliament's concerns about the safeguarding of fundamental rights and freedoms in relation to the protection of personal data have been taken into account. this will have to be the criterion for whether or not data is transferred and only when it comes to the fight against terrorism. these are fine promises, but i am curious to see how the council and the commission will guarantee these guarantees in practice. the principles of proportionality and effectiveness are paramount. and is the u.s. actually going to do the same for us? what i would like is a full and detailed statement of the rights our citizens will have in the coming agreement. the council and the commission propose that a european body be responsible for examining applications from the usa. how do the council and the commission envisage such a public eu body? will it become a judicial body and will the citizens be guaranteed a procedure before a judge like that in europe? i'd like to hear your answer.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, as rapporteur i would first of all like to thank the shadows for their excellent, pleasant and fruitful cooperation resulting in a joint resolution. of course this is not the final stage, as our talks on the topic and the text will continue. today we consider the request for consent by the council on the two agreements with the us and australia. this house has always been highly critical of the use and transfer of pnr data. as a matter of fact, in 2004 parliament sought the annulment of the agreement with the us before the european court of justice. it would therefore be inconsistent with our earlier positions to give consent without further ado. however, parliament being responsible and cooperative as always, we agree that by rejecting the two agreements we will create legal uncertainty and practical difficulties for citizens and carriers. so we propose instead to suspend the vote and request the commission to develop a coherent approach to the use of pnr that is based on a single set of principles. i am very pleased to note that the commission and the council have embraced this strategy and that they are committed to working fast and flexibly. we urge the commission in particular to submit the pnr package, as it is now dubbed, before the summer break. such a coherent single approach seems the pragmatic option when more and more countries are requiring the transfer of passenger data. then there is the lapsed pnr agreement with canada – or whatever the legal status is, as this is not entirely clear – as well as the shelved proposal for an eu pnr. this draft resolution sets out a number of basic principles and minimum requirements for the pnr package, and they are, as it were, our conditions for consent. a key element or key word here is proportionality, because it must be demonstrated convincingly that the same end cannot be achieved with less intrusive means. this is really the key to everything. we specifically need to look at api data and esta in this context. we need, for example, to distinguish very clearly between the massive collection and use of data on all passengers for the purpose of automated searches such as profiling and data mining on the one hand, and targeted searches for known suspects on the other hand, identifying people who are, for example, on a no-fly or watch list. that is something completely different and we need to distinguish very carefully. secondly, there must be a clear and strict purpose limitation in line with earlier resolutions, and we insist that data be used only for law-enforcement and security purposes and on the basis of very precise definitions of what that is: organised international crime and international terrorism. we need to make very clear what it is that we are talking about. any use of pnr must be in line with eu data protection standards. it is our prime responsibility to represent the interests of our own european citizens. they have a right to know that we uphold european law in international relations and in our internal policies. finally, we recognise the need to provide law-enforcement and security authorities with the necessary means to do their job in an era of unprecedented mobility, but europe also has a duty to protect our rights and freedoms. i believe with the forthcoming pnr package we have a unique opportunity to get it right.
the tension is a little bit off, ladies and gentlemen. mrs int't veld has drawn up a wonderful resolution which is being embraced by the commission and the council. that's very good in itself. i agree with her, too. i think it's very wise to say now: we are making one clear directive for all pnr contracts for the future in which we take proportionality into account, we only include data which are strictly necessary for the purpose, namely the fight against terrorism, and we also make it clear that this is the purpose and that there is no other purpose. it must ensure that there is reciprocity, that data is not stored for long periods of time, that there is a real end time and that we respect our fundamental rights. the european convention on human rights has now been declared binding, so that will also have to be reflected in such a pnr convention. i therefore think that it is the right time to submit this to the european union fundamental rights office in vienna. i would ask the commission to do the same. the other thing we should be aware of is that in the meantime the habit has developed of citizens actually having their conversation with a foreign power, in this case often the united states, through a company, namely an airline, which has nothing to do with it, which should not actually have certain data from me and which should not want to play this mediating role. we have to do something about that.
author. − mr president, i would just like to inform colleagues that we did not change our position: it has always been incorporated throughout the text in this resolution, so the proposed amendment is superfluous.
in writing. − the pvv is for animal welfare, but that is a matter for the member states and not the eu.
in writing. − the pvv is for animal welfare, but that is a matter for the member states and not the eu.
i would like to address, mr president, in particular mr verhofstadt, mr daul and mr schulz, who is not here today, but his group, the socialist group, here, because they have been partly responsible for the problems. they are now calling for solidarity, solidarity would be necessary. let me remind you that greece has been the largest net recipient of european money for many years and that has led to them being cheated and you have been cheated all too willingly because you are so euro-phile all of you, you want europe to be bigger so badly that you have not been critical at all and now we are sitting on the pot roast. remember, spain, because that's next in line, spain has legalized two million illegal immigrants in the last 15 years. you were all very happy about that, but now we have 20% unemployment in spain and spain is in deep trouble, as is portugal. all countries with socialist governments which you have supported for years with european money and which have made a mess of things by living too big. you have watched for years and approved of it for years and now we, the citizens, can pay the price. you should be ashamed of yourself. there is only one solution - and i hear no one saying it here - we must be tough on the greeks now. the greeks must reintroduce the drachma, because the eurozone is not sustainable for them. and if spain is next, they will reintroduce the peseta and portugal the escudo and then they can compete again, because this europe is the wrong europe and the citizens of northern europe will refuse to pay for your mistakes and for the weak socialist governments in these countries, because, i repeat, greece, spain, portugal, all socialist countries, have all received money from the european union. immigration has been a big deal, and you've been looking at it and doing nothing.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr barroso, mr minister, this debate on the 2020 strategy was rightly preceded by a debate on the eurozone crisis, and the crucial theme for both debates is how to strengthen european governance. you speak of coordination of economic policy, but the big problem is that too much has been said about freedom and happiness and member states have ignored the agreements. i can't do that anymore. this is the case with the stability and growth pact and this is also the great lesson of the lisbon strategy, so it must be different when it comes to the 2020 strategy. our group, the european people's party, expects the commission to make an ambitious commitment to european economic governance before the 2020 strategy. we expect the council to take decisive decisions in june and to commit itself to ambitious targets for the member states and also to a strong european governance. parliament will challenge you if necessary. the budget plans for the coming year must be in line with that 2020 strategy and on other points too this parliament will expressly play its institutional role, in the interests of sustainable economic growth and in the interests of jobs for our citizens. the turbulence in the eurozone, mr president, shows once again the importance of sound public finances for the stability of the euro, for financial and economic stability, but also to avoid passing the burden on to future generations, to our children. reform of public finances is therefore an important prerequisite for a successful 2020 strategy and for restoring our competitiveness. that is why it is so important, commissioner rehn, that you come forward next week with proposals to strengthen the stability and growth pact. strengthening preventive action and improving the sustainability of public finances in the member states are crucial. i would therefore like to encourage you, on behalf of our group, to take up your responsibility as a commission and to come up with ambitious plans. you can count on our support. we must look at how we as a parliament, together with you, can challenge the council to actually agree to strengthening the stability and growth pact. it is good that the council has set up a task force, but i really hope that before the end of the year the council will give its consent to the proposals of the european commission. president, we must make full use of the possibilities of the lisbon treaty to strengthen european governance in the short term. we don't have time to waste.
i would like to ask the commission and the council to make clear choices. first of all: choose democracy. how can the council take decisions which define the socioeconomic policies of the member states for ten years without the electorate having a say in the matter during that period, during those ten years? that means, for example, that the outgoing dutch prime minister will be in charge for ten years, which is not really possible. secondly: work is pay. the 75% target sounds good, but europe does not need more working poor. how does the council define employment? thirdly: choose healthy government spending. how can the commission present a budget for 2011 that is growing by as much as 5.8% when europe 2020 puts a strong emphasis on austerity measures. fourthly: the commission has already done so. does the commission and the council agree with the internal market committee's proposal to make the internal market more social and to make procurement procedures more focused on quality and social justice? fifth: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat poverty. the council's only focus on poverty reduction is economic growth. in recent years, economic growth has led to high salaries for managers, but the poor are getting poorer. how are you going to make sure that it is not the poor, but the top incomes and the banks, for example, that are going to pay for the crisis?
mr. president, when mr. ford came in his first car, he said, "my car is available in all colors, as long as it's black". today, nothing has changed. the car is available in all models, as long as it is environmentally friendly. no offense to the kindness, but the environment is being made unaffordable by left-wing politicians today. the consumer pays for himself and that is obscured by all sorts of government subsidies, but the environment is enormously expensive and unprofitable if all the subsidies brought in by the taxpayer are eliminated. the european union is now seeking to standardise the electric car. the party for freedom believes that the european union should not be concerned with this, but industry. besides, an electric car is useless right now. the batteries and their lifetime are still far too limited and contain extremely harmful substances. when millions of people stop their electric cars at night to charge, all the stops will be missed and the lights will literally go out because our networks can't handle the load. and all that extra electricity for electric cars will have to be generated by additional power plants. in short, the electric car is unaffordable, polluting, consumes far too much grid capacity and usually does not look good, whether it is black or not. we therefore do not want european standardisation of the electric car, not now and not ever.
mr. chairman, commissioner and secretary of state, i have a few points: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. first of all, i would like to compliment the commission on its choice of a technology-neutral approach. i support it because energy efficiency in cars must be regulated by ambitious legislation on co2 emissions, technology must not be chosen. that technology will choose itself. it is standard practice in this house to give compliments. i am very happy to be involved in this, but, mr president, with your permission, i would like to save that for next time, because i think the commission is very late in its standardisation of electric cars. you talk about the charging interfaces and the battery is not actually mentioned at all. the standards will not be available until 2012 and may not be operational until 2013. may i ask you to please do your best to expedite that? you don't mention smart meters in cars at all. you're talking about smart charging. i would ask you to include this in the next communication, because it is the only way to manage mobility and possibly tax energy. raw materials, you've talked about mass possibilities, but frankly, there's not that much lithium available at all. i would ask you to do more, do more research, to find substitutes for this scarce material.
president, commissioner, yesterday this room was packed with mayors who signed a covenant of mayors to really go for that low-carbon economy. what struck me in the whole debate is that they are ready to do concrete things for our citizens and to supplement them. now, that subject of the electric car is a beautiful flagship. europe has a tradition, it has a position, when it comes to quality. but from a global point of view - see in particular the figures in china for the electric car - we really have to speed up, as the commission's communication now says. these mayors came up with ideas for smart cities. particularly in cities, you see that electric cars, transportation in general, can make a big leap upwards. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. my country, the netherlands, has made a choice. we said yes to a german plug. that is european thinking. the menneke six-pin connector, that's what we're gonna work with. in fact, we need to go further and combine the best techniques. two more little points. first of all, i lack a good communication strategy. this is a prime way of bringing europe closer to the citizen. this can also make europe more visible. the people do not show up at the elections, what does europe do about it? i actually think this is a topic for a kind of e-preaching. european electricity. it should be able to, and it also increases the visibility of those kinds of projects, and that's how we make ourselves e-proof. we are working on a european project, on preserving employment and prosperity, and perhaps that should be expressed a little better in that communication.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. cancer is a terrible disease, a disease that, in the worst case, no one can do anything about. fortunately, there's something we can do. we're living longer and longer, and unfortunately, as we get older, we're at greater and greater risk of cancer. the more gray the population, the more cancer cases we can expect. all member states must therefore make every effort to implement an effective and social health policy. targeted, preventive through preventive screening programs and affordable anti-cancer drugs. we have to go for it. another point on which we can do something is the high level of carcinogens in the environment. toxins are processed in homes, think of asbestos, household items and even in our food. the eu must protect its people from this, regardless of whether it harms industrial interests. the interests of the citizen, the health of the citizen, come first!
mr president, within the eu in 2008 the eib reacted swiftly and accurately to the financial crisis by increasing its capital and almost doubling investments and disbursements compared to previous years, and in particular towards smes. however, under the eib’s external mandate, this sense of urgency for counter-cyclical action has not been shown by the eib in developing countries. the eib even decreased its investment significantly in acp countries, in asia and in latin america. the annual report painfully shows that, for developing countries, the eib’s response to the crisis has been far too slow. the main task of the eib as a public institution in developing countries should not only be to invest in heavy infrastructure; another and equally important task is providing capital in times of scarcity, supporting markets where private banks are reluctant. under the external mandate the eib should invest more in financial services, offering better access to loans and savings for citizens and smes. that leads to sustainable growth here and in developing countries.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, our s&d group joins commissioner rehn in expressing our condolences after the death of the nigerian president, umaru yar’adua. the violence between the muslim and christian population in jos, nigeria, in january and march this year, shows the tense and explosive state of this region. although the obvious reason seems to lie in the religious dimension, we must also focus on other underlying causes, as my colleague gay mitchell rightly pointed out as well. most importantly, the region suffers from scarce resources and the unequal access of different groups to these resources. also, the struggle for fertile farmland is an important root cause for the violent conflicts between christians and muslim settlers. indigenous farmers feel threatened by settlers looking for pasture for their livestock. we therefore call for a wider examination of the causes of this conflict. if nothing is done about the poverty and discrimination, these clashes will continue. this means that the whole population needs equal opportunities and equal access to essential goods such as proper education or access to political power. a long-term and lasting solution can only be found if all these factors are taken into account. we call for a fair and transparent prosecution of the perpetrators of the violence, but we are shocked to hear that local governors are now threatening to execute death row inmates only in order to ease the overcrowding in nigerian prisons, where people have to wait for years before they even see a judge. the nigerian state governors should do better by addressing the many underlying problems in the criminal justice system. only then can the perpetrators of the violent clashes have a fair and transparent trial.
on behalf of the ecr group. - mr president, i would also like to express on behalf of my group our condolences to the nigerian people on the death of the president. president, the atrocities committed in and around jos are beyond description and unfortunately they are not isolated. in the future, this will happen again, if nothing changes. violence still rages almost daily, particularly among christians. mr. president, nigeria has to do four things. firstly, to launch an independent inquiry and look at the role of the military, which has clearly failed to protect the civilian population adequately. second, to bring the perpetrators to justice. these kinds of terrible events cannot be tolerated. thirdly, to encourage dialogue between ethnic and religious groups. fourthly, to find a solution to the tensions between the different groups of the population who claim the same land. president. - europe must of course assist nigeria in these measures, but it must also put pressure on the country, because the spiral of violence must really be stopped.
mr president, the latest news i have received from christians in jos this week is extremely worrying. in recent weeks, fellow believers, christians, have also been found murdered in various places in this nigerian city. on saturday, april 24, members of the muslim youth gang struck two journalists from a christian monthly. using their victims' cell phones, the perpetrators let unsuspecting callers know: "we killed them all, come on!" this, mr president, is the sign of an atmosphere of impunity, of violence, which is mainly affecting christians in nigeria, with hundreds of deaths in and around jos since the beginning of the year. one observer is telling enough about systematic religious persecution. the european union is also calling on the international community, including the european institutions, to recognize muslim extremism as an important explanation for the explosive situation in nigeria, particularly in the city of jos, which is on the dividing line between the muslim north and the christian south. unfortunately - and this is my criticism today - the joint resolution does not explicitly do this (see paragraph 5). there is no strong position against the prevailing muslim extremism in nigeria, but rather the resolution opposes - and i quote - 'simplistic statements based on religion alone'. i am also against monocausal explanations, but nigerian christians, living between hope and fear these days, have not been helped by this european simplism from here, from the european parliament. and that's my criticism. that's why i abstained.
for the ppe group this commission legislative proposal was indeed rejected in the committee on social affairs. however, we have a good habit in this parliament of taking a cooling off period of one month to prepare properly for the plenary session. the rapporteur's wishes notwithstanding, this customary right of parliament has been infringed in this case. it is a very complicated proposal and the groups also need time to prepare, which is impossible in two days. i therefore ask you to support the rapporteur's proposal to postpone the vote on this proposal until the june part-session.
- i'm the reporter. - i would like to begin by thanking everyone for the very constructive cooperation we have had and i hope that after the vote tomorrow we can move forward on equal footing because parliament is speaking almost with one voice to the commission and the council, in order to finally reach a compromise for the consumers of europe, the european citizens. i think that the commission's proposal to incorporate the labelling of textile products into a regulation is better than incorporating it into existing directives. i refer in this connection to the report by mr monti, who says that the problems in europe are caused by the transposition of directives which have 12 or 27 different levels. i have always been a defender of regulations and i hope that the commission will come forward with proposals for regulations more often. the purpose of this regulation is to speed up the introduction of new textile fibres on the market. this is also widely supported in the committee on the internal market, because we are trying to optimise the internal market as much as possible. what we have also tried to do - and this is also something which concerns the citizens of europe - is to simplify the labelling of clothing, which is also a textile product, in this report, for example by introducing european standardisation. we now know that this is not going to be as easy as it was, so we have asked for a study, an impact assessment, to see whether less can also be more, i.e. less information to the consumer; the consumer may request additional information, if he so wishes, via a website or any other means. the label should simply be shorter so that producers can produce for one market and do not have to sew whole newspapers into garments, which simply leads to the consumer getting lost. we have already seen how far this can go in the case of food labelling. that is what we want to prevent. we have made some proposals to ask the commission to make the labelling of textiles simpler. the consumer has a right to certain basic information, such as 'what am i buying?', 'what is it made of?' and 'where does it come from?' we believe that the consumer has a right to this information when he buys an item and you don't have to hide it. we are therefore once again faced with unfair commercial practices, which are simply very difficult to control and enforce. so we've made some suggestions. in principle, therefore, very simple information and if the consumer wants to know more, he can obtain information on request; the commission is looking into the best way of serving consumers when it is right. we have made a number of proposals. if a toy is made of more than 85% textile, we think it should simply comply with this. and then some people say, yes, but we already have a directive on the safety of toys. but it is specifically about safety and not about informing the consumer about what that product is made of; i imagine the consumer wants to know. there is also an amendment which reads as follows: the consumer has the right to know whether a product is made from animal materials, no further research is required, the producer must indicate whether an animal product has been incorporated. we're not talking about the fiber, we're talking about other materials, like pieces of fur. finally, we have the famous made in italy for which the commission already made proposals in 2005. now, we have actually copied that literally and we hope that with the support of the commission and parliament the council will go over and take a positive view of things. i therefore call on the council to reach a compromise with the commission and parliament which will lead to an improvement of this regulation for the benefit of consumers and to better information.
- i'm the reporter. - i am honoured that so many speakers are here on this monday evening for a technical report and i am also honoured that there is such broad support for this report. some colleagues are critical and say that the scope of the report should not be abused and that it should not be broadened. i understand that, but i would like to stress the words of my colleague mr gebhardt in this connection. sometimes in a situation you have to take advantage of the situation to get something done and i think this is an excellent way of doing that. it is important that there should be a very broad support tomorrow - and i can taste that support in the reactions of many - which will give this parliament an excellent starting point, especially in the negotiations with the council. i think - and i thank the commissioner for his clear position - that parliament, together with the commission, can create a situation tomorrow which will eventually lead to a positive conclusion of the negotiations with the council. the aim of this proposal is to create better legislation for the future as we increasingly buy online; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we are starting with textiles and i hope that this will eventually extend to all products available for sale on the internal market. the aim is not to give more information, but to give clear information with a single european point of view, and if that succeeds, i shall be very pleased. finally, mr president, i would like to point out that i have deliberately chosen not to reach agreement with the council in a single reading. i think we should take this usual route much more often and that parliament, the plenary, should first consider the report submitted by the committee on the internal market before negotiating with the council and the commission to reach a conclusion. i think it is a democratic undermining if we reach an agreement before the debate in the plenary. so i hope that many will follow this example and we will simply deal with all the dossiers in a first and second reading. i hope for a good result tomorrow and our starting position with broad support will be fine to win the final with the council, to speak in football terms.
mr president, the draft budget of this parliament for 2011 is 1.7 billion euros. that translates into 2.3 million euros per member of parliament per year, two tonnes of euros per month and as much as 6400 euros per member of parliament per day, and there are 736 members of parliament in this house. mr president, 6400 euros is a lot of money. i can think of a hundred things we could spend that money on instead of this dollhouse. but the most important thing is that the citizen should be able to decide for himself. mr president, let us finish today in brussels, luxembourg and especially strasbourg. just get everyone out of the buildings, lock the doors, throw away the keys and give that 1.7 billion euros back to the citizens who earned it with their own blood, sweat and tears. mr president, every member of this house should wake up and go to bed with the idea that he or she has cost or will cost the taxpayer 6400 euros that day, every day. every member of parliament should also consider it his duty to reduce that amount every day, because all the nonsense that is being spent here is taxpayers' money brought in by hardworking citizens. mr president, that is how it should be here, but it is not. in this parliament everything must always be more. through handshakes, we know each other, shady deals in the back rooms, tens of millions of dollars in the budget are talked about. the elite rules, the citizen pays. president. - i should like to ask the commissioner to give us a statement on the matter. and if the members of parliament do not do that, they should be ashamed of themselves, because then they are not good enough members of parliament.
i have supported the ranner report, mr president, because it provides a good solution to the problem of driving and rest periods in road transport. the solution lies in harmonizing legislation and in its interpretation. that is what you find in paragraph 17 as amended. the european commission, in cooperation with corte, tispol and euro contrôle route, should work on an article-by-article interpretation of the law. this interpretation must also be clear and known to all enforcers on european roads. i would also like to refer to the amended paragraph 27. i'm calling on all drivers to use the disproportionate enforcement checkpoint at euro contrôle route. drivers, driving and rest times in europe must be different and therefore must be proved. please report your complaints to the euro contrôle route counter.
in writing. − i have voted against the ashworth report on simplification of the cap (a7-0051/2010), because of paragraph 12. farmers do not need more eu direct support, they need fairer prices for their products. however, i do agree with the essence of the report. the cap is overly complicated and unnecessarily burdensome on farmers, member states and decentralized governments and authorities. there is a great need to relieve this administrative burden and reduce bureaucracy, especially in these times of crisis. furthermore, there should be a possibility of error correction for farmers who have, unintentionally or due to factors beyond their control, committed infringements and are penalised as a result of this, as well as a greater transparency regarding these penalties.
madam president, as we review the rome statute of the international criminal court, let us be reminded that its creation truly marks a success for liberal democracy and a commitment to effective international law. with all eu member states ratifying to comply with the rome statute, we set out on the next chapter of meeting our ambitions and responsibilities in the field of human rights, peace and justice. a critical evaluation is important, but the icc is already an important institution in ensuring that these fundamental values are not just european but universal. it is a last resort, as commissioner reding said, but an important one. the eu and member states should continue their commitment to the icc, or the principles it seeks to ensure, by adopting the eu guidelines on the icc. it is a primary obligation to investigate and prosecute those who commit war crimes, genocide and crimes against humanity. with the lisbon treaty, we are working towards an effective common foreign eu policy. the high representative should actively promote the accession to the rome statute of other global players – china, india, russia and important candidate member states, such as turkey – but, also, the long-term ally of the eu, the united states, should be engaged in a dialogue of contributing to global justice and should seriously consider joining its ally. as a dutch european, i would like to reassure our citizens that the ‘hague invasion act’ will never be invoked. the eu needs to work constructively with turkey and the us to stop impunity in iran, which is one of the most urgent cases of aggressors and where execution, rape and torture are brought upon citizens by their own government on a daily and systematic basis. we need to work on the true globalisation or universalisation of human rights, justice and the rule of law, and the icc is an important instrument to meet this goal. support for this court needs to be globalised as well. the european parliament has been working constructively and is united on this subject.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, listening to the commissioner and the council representative on the stockholm programme, some questions come to mind. it is now close to the end of the spanish presidency, with five weeks to go. at the beginning, we heard great ideas from the spanish presidency on asylum, migration, the anti-discrimination directive and the emancipation of women, but i must say that, with five weeks to go, i wonder where the concrete results and proposals are. the commission and parliament did their work on asylum and migration, and we are really waiting for the council to act. it is not only – as commissioner reding said – the individual member state that needs to implement its laws, it is the council that needs to come up with ideas on dublin, on the reception directive, on the eurodac system and on the qualification directive. we really are waiting for it. the anti-discrimination directive is something this plenary voted for and the greens are really waiting for that. turning to the commission on that issue, equality and anti-discrimination are of course fundamental basics in the stockholm programme, but why did the commission not choose to make same-sex partnerships a priority for this action plan? you said people would be put at the centre. organising same-sex partnerships is putting people at the centre. could you give me an explanation as to why? with regard to europol, in the pre-lisbon era europol was submitted to a minimum of scrutiny by parliament, and that is still the case although we now have the lisbon treaty. for example, the competence to enter into negotiations for cooperation agreements with third countries is based on council decisions that date from a couple of years back. it is rumoured that europol is now discussing a treaty with israel, and who knows what other countries are being approached for treaties. the lisbon treaty gives parliament a new role, and i would like the commission to act upon it.
for the ppe group at a time of crisis and debate on how to maintain a sustainable society and competitiveness, we are talking about an apparent detail which, in my view, is at the heart of the concerns of many people. it 's about the question: who gets assigned a home? at a time when banks are much more cautious than when the debate started - in the netherlands the debate started in 2005 in a very different situation - you can see that a number of people are really getting into trouble. the limit set now is €33,000. these proposals have yet to be submitted to the members of the house of commons for approval, who will say without any doubt that this limit should actually be in line with the limit for sickness funds in the netherlands, which is about eur 40 000. so the debate in the netherlands is still going on, it's not like everyone is agreeing with it by now. i feel there's not enough flexibility, not enough customization. a member state must be able to participate. that 10% is very small. after graduating, i also crossed the income threshold, but i was able to keep my rental home for a few more years, after which i finally decided to buy and move to another place. the problem is flexibility, there is not enough flexibility, which leads me to the conclusion that subsidiarity, the fact that the countries themselves can regulate things in a much wider range, is not being sufficiently respected here. after today's debate we must consider whether we will come back with a resolution. in general, i think the commission is doing a good job, but i think the member states are being too restrictive, to the detriment of people who depend on them for their housing.
mr. chairman, what i've learned is that when joseph daul's farm is on fire, you put out the fire first. that is why our group fully supports the emergency package decided by the council and the commission. in one weekend, a decision on a package worth hundreds of billions of euros was inevitable. a wake-up call, stricter and more consistent budgetary rules are crucial and need to be strengthened. the council was unanimous, mr president, and let us show that we are unanimous. but unfortunately, when i hear president schulz from our socialist colleagues, that unanimity is not here in this house. mr president, all of us in this house want a europe with sustainable economic growth, with enough jobs for our citizens and with healthy businesses. we can only achieve this with a stable currency and a stable economy. an ambitious 2020 strategy requires a stability and growth pact that must be respected. and for both, success depends on strong european governance. that is the essence of the resolution which we discussed with the groups in this house last week. commissioner rehn deserves our support and i think it is irresponsible that our socialist colleagues refuse to give it. president. - mr president, the irresponsible behaviour of speculators is not the cause, but it has fuelled the euro crisis. commissioner barnier, as far as our group is concerned, must work diligently on proposals to curb irresponsible behaviour on the financial markets.
mr president, it is to be feared that the greek aid package will not work. after all, no country in the world has ever managed to bring a budget deficit of 14% down to 3% in three years. greece will not succeed either. there is a lot of resistance there to austerity measures and so there is a very high chance that the country will enter a negative growth spiral with sharply declining consumer spending, whereas an increase in that spending is needed to pay off the loans plus interest. so athens will at some point ring the bell again with the message "we are not able to pay off". it is very likely that europe will then forgive the loans with the famous statement 'we cannot do otherwise, we must prevent worse'. mr. president, the lesson of this crisis is: be honest and keep your word. the euro countries must get their budgets in order, publish fair figures, comply with the requirements of the stability and growth pact and restructure their debts. countries that do not do so must leave the eurozone.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). but then europe must not continue to be at the mercy of the big companies and not to mention the big financial institutions. on two occasions governments have had to bail out our financial institutions without paying any of the bill themselves. in the last two years, the aid from the netherlands alone to these institutions has led to 2.5 billion in additional interest expenditure. in the same period, the largest dutch pension fund abp bought greek government bonds for 1 billion because it could get a slightly higher interest rate. in other words: the speculation continues and we may have to save the pension funds too. europe 2020 must take its toll where it belongs, not by extreme cuts in much-needed public services, but on the top incomes and speculators, through partial debt relief for countries like greece and, for example, a bank tax. we will then be preserving the european social model.
- i'm the reporter. - yes, a very coherent package. after this morning's debate on the support package, including the debate on tighter, stronger governance in the financial and economic spheres, we are now dealing with a number of underlying issues which are important for the commitment that needs to grow around the eu 2020 strategy. parliament wants to give a clear signal to these proposals by the commission and in particular by the council. it is not possible for the council to take a decision in june without our having reached an explicit agreement on a number of the underlying issues. it's about the course and it's also about the execution later. for example, look at the flagship projects that we will have to support together. so it's really important to invest enough time in that now. the cortés lastra report and my report on behalf of the committee on regional affairs both deal with the synergy between policies to achieve more output, more results for europe. and the beauty is, it can be better and it should be better. we are quite fragmented in various areas, if you look at developments in the world, at the competition and at the way we want to deal with things. in short: it needs to be smarter, it needs to be greener, it needs to be more sustainable, and it needs to be more inclusive. the reports submitted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs also deal with governance, with adequate financial resources, including for education. in short, i hope that we will be able to lay a firm foundation for that resolution this afternoon. i don't know if there's going to be a vote tomorrow, if there's going to be a consensus on governance. but i hope that in june we as a parliament will be able to adopt a definitive position on the eu 2020 strategy. now back to my report: it's an implementation report. we have really looked at how things work in the field of r & d, in the field of regional policy and for smes; i would like to thank my colleagues, including those in the itre committee, which was a joint committee under article 50, for the fact that we have achieved a good result. what have we established? firstly, we have first-class research in europe. but what's left is the valorisation of it, knowledge is free, it flies around the world, you can't keep it to yourself. we are very good at investing in research, but we are lagging behind in making it more valuable, in bringing innovation to the market and then in maintaining high-quality production in this part of the world. the second. the report i am presenting notes that we are currently spending a quarter of the regional funds on research infrastructure and innovation. this is a major change, a priority which has worked in the current period thanks to initiatives by the commission; earmarking is one of the instruments which has worked and which has also had a significant impact on the agenda in the regions and cities. it leads to a better profile in the knowledge economy towards which we are moving and to more specialisation. the third. in my report, i have put forward a series of proposals with my colleagues for improvements along the whole chain of research, innovation and production to achieve greater effectiveness. we must also realise that the territorial dimension, as enshrined in the lisbon treaty, is important. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union is able to provide the necessary financial support to the countries of central and eastern europe, and to ensure that the european union is able to provide the necessary financial support to the countries of central and eastern europe. if we are investing money from the union, then there must also be cooperation between the ... (the president declared the common position adopted as amended)
the problems of greece and the eurozone are a serious situation. that calls for a structural approach. the proposed europe 2020 strategy, which aims to contribute to economic growth and employment, seeks to provide for this. the strategy rightly includes sound public finances. however, the initiative will only be useful if two conditions are met. firstly, the operation of the stability and growth pact needs to be strengthened so that such a situation does not reoccur. it's not just about structure and rules. it's about the mindset. the key is that the member states respect their budgetary commitments. i also drew attention to this at a conference in athens last week. it is good that the member states should be calling on each other more intensively in the council to bring about the necessary structural reforms to put public finances back on track. i think that this is what strengthening economic coordination should be about. the second condition i would like to stress is that it is not desirable for the european union to focus on the policy areas of social affairs, employment and social cohesion. objectives in these areas are rightly not enforceable at european level. we have seen in the lisbon strategy that such an approach does not work. the same applies here: the european community is a great example of this.
today we are talking about the long-term economy of europe and how we can achieve sustainable growth there. and when europe talks about it, i sleep a little less well, because so far europe has not proposed much. i would remind you of the lisbon strategy, in which europe agreed to become the most competitive economy in the world. that, of course, has proved a complete failure. the european union has only created more bureaucracy, unnecessary rules, especially in my country, the netherlands, tax increases, mass immigration, crime and insecurity. and now let us look at the list of countries that want to join, which we sit at the table with every day: albania, bosnia, turkey, all poor countries and islamic countries, corrupt and criminal, iceland a bankrupt country! and every day we hear in this house from the greens and the socialists, and even from the liberals, that we must have a green economy, that we must subsidize billions in wind turbines and green electricity, while our industry is becoming less and less competitive with china, america and india. do you think it's funny that our economy is stagnating? there is only one recipe for an economically strong europe, and that is less bureaucracy and officials in brussels and also less bureaucracy in the member states. tax cuts instead of increases. and stop this mass immigration. greece must of course be thrown out of the eurozone. let us hold up a mirror and look at our colleagues here: what have you done in recent years to ensure that greece has kept its commitments under the stability and growth pact? i already know the answer: not a word! you have all been sleeping here while countries like greece, which receive billions from europe every year, have been squandering that money and growing their government out of their clutches. if europe fails to do so, i predict that my country, the netherlands, and germany will leave the euro!
in the present debate on this crisis we are mainly talking about budgetary discipline. and rightly so, budget discipline is important. but that's not the whole story. let us also keep this crisis in perspective. and the perspective is that we're still talking about a banking crisis, actually. for years, banks with incomprehensible structures have made money on the basis of air. and this bubble burst in 2008. then countries converted that private debt into public debt. and that is the problem facing greece today, a public debt that it cannot bear. in this sense, when we talk about a strategy for 2020, we must also look at the role of banks in it. the commission is completely lacking in ambition in these areas. there's hardly any mention of the benches. what this crisis shows is that a clear distinction must be made between savings banks and investment banks. where is the commission's ambition for plans to tackle this? that's one point. but we must also look to the economy of the future. the economy of the future will be efficient in its use of natural resources. the commission's ambition is again lacking. the commission proposes either vague targets, or targets that are too low, for example 20% less greenhouse gas emissions, which is not enough to stimulate green innovation. how do companies get signals to invest in green technology? we are also missing that in the commission's plans. finally, we have our own budget. it also has to be in line with our own strategy. this means that the structural funds must ultimately be about encouraging new green technology. at the moment, we are mainly subsidizing more greenhouse gas emissions. where is the money for innovation and where is the agricultural budget for sustainable agriculture? we need concrete action and ambition from the commission and not vague plans, which are not going to save us from this crisis.
mr president, as we seek to solve the financial and economic crisis, i would like to point out an essential deficit: that of knowledge. i regret to say that europe is becoming a more stupid continent every day, even though knowledge is our most fruitful and rich resource. investing in it bears no risk. the young generation of europeans pays the price of the crisis, however, as youth unemployment grows and education and innovation budgets are frozen or cut. we have to cut budgets, but let us do so with a 21st century attitude, because where is half of the eu budget going now? to agriculture! it should go to the young generation, and their development. not just a traditional education but one that focuses on e-skills and entrepreneurship for example. we know that the higher one’s education is, the lower the chances of losing a job. yet member states are not meeting the necessary commitment in fostering an ambitious knowledge economy. europe thus punishes the next generation of europeans by not allowing them to develop their talents and ambitions to their full capacity, and it allows china, india and the united states to become more attractive places for talent, research, creativity and innovation. short-term measures will have a high long-term cost. entrepreneurship, excellence and a sustainable future of the european economy can only be fostered if we are willing to invest in knowledge. because whoever thinks knowledge is expensive does not know what stupidity costs. today commissioner kroes presented her vision for europe’s digital agenda, one of the eu 2020 flagship programmes. it is an ambitious yet concrete strategy which seeks to make europe’s digital market stronger in a global economy as well as connecting many europeans to an open internet. i believe we need to take more smart decisions now and make sure the current crisis does not become a mortgage to the youth and the young generation charging an interest that they can never pay back. does the commission support a coordinated approach, moving away from the intergovernmental procedure in decision-making, and giving a stronger role to the commission and parliament, to ensure that member states fulfil their commitments?
- i'm the reporter. - after this debate, i thank you all for your support for my report. a few other comments. a number of issues on socio-economic governance in the short term, the financial side has received sufficient attention and has a high priority; we have also had the opportunity this afternoon to talk about the medium term and to make some comments on it. we shall be putting this into a resolution of parliament which we shall be putting before the june summit in the chamber. two comments, one on governance. the question is, whose strategy is it? one of the lisbon mistakes was that the parties, the municipalities, the regions and also the partners, were not sufficiently involved in the process; i therefore propose that, in addition to the agreement in the council with the member states and the commission, there should be a territorial pact with the regions and cities, otherwise this will happen again, we will be talking about the regions, about our partners, but not about us. if something doesn't reach the citizens this time, i'm sure of it: you can go after big flagships, but it's more flag than ship. it should be more exciting to be part of the lisbon strategy and the eu 2020 strategy. it is also possible to do so by saying in that subsidy, in that incentive that the person who risks his neck, who also funds, may participate. it 's all too flat . i therefore invite the commission to conclude a territorial pact with regions and cities. finally, comprehensive policies, especially across sectors, are crucial, fragmentation of all kinds of new financing structures will not achieve anything and will not bring us to that agenda. my report deals with the synergy between research, development, innovation and production, employment in europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in 2008, french president sarkozy announced that he had a dream of the union for the mediterranean. this union must give new impetus to the objectives of euro-mediterranean cooperation. objectives based on the mutual recognition of common values such as democracy, the rule of law, good governance and respect for human rights. i wonder how you can speak of common values when in a country like mauritania there is no freedom of religion and islam has been the religion for over a thousand years. according to the constitution, syria is officially a democratic and socialist-oriented unitary state. in practice, however, syria is a dictatorship. morocco occupies western sahara and human rights are being violated in tunisia. i could go on with this line of countries for a while, but i cannot do that with speaking time. are these the countries with which we want more cultural exchange? countries with whom we want to pursue a free trade area? and, in addition, to promote the free movement of persons between the two sides of the mediterranean? the result will be: more islam in europe, not eurabia, not now, not ever! before this dream becomes a nightmare, this process must be stopped. we also dreamed of the mediterranean in the barcelona declaration in 1995. this was done again in 2005. apart from the fact that these projects have cost european taxpayers billions, they have led to nothing. stop wasting taxpayers' money and stop dreaming! i would like to thank mr albertini for his courageous stand. he has the support of my group.
i should like to thank you for your permission to speak, since i was prevented from doing so by an emergency meeting of the enlarged bureau of the committee on foreign affairs. thank you for your understanding. mr president, mr peillon's report rightly also stresses in paragraph 5 the need for a just and lasting solution to the arab-israeli conflict. the rapporteur calls on the european union and all the member states of the union for the mediterranean to make the best possible effort to achieve this. as the chairman of the israeli delegation, i would like to support such peace contributions, but i believe they will only be effective if two conditions are met: (a) that the proposed two-state solution clearly implies the coexistence of a jewish state, israel, and a palestinian state; (b) that the eu member states and those of the union for the mediterranean promote an atmosphere of mutual trust between the parties to the conflict in the middle east, with the common fight against the endemic evil of anti-semitism, whatever the flag under which it manifests itself, for example the anti-zionist flag, as a priority. you can have so many israelis and palestinians in your secretariat, for mutual trust we must fight together. this is a lacquer mold.
on behalf of the ppe group there are no problems with this report. i would like to ask for an electronic vote on behalf of the ppe group.
the rapporteur has tabled some startling amendments to his report. the rapporteur, with the support of 250 colleagues, wanted to delete all the texts on sound public finances, breaches of the stability and growth pact that must be stopped and the importance of strict monitoring of compliance with the sgp. it's amazing! the vision of the rapporteur and those 250 others is the vision of destroying the economy. how is it possible that there are still 250 members who do not want to put the cart before the horse? 250 members who refuse to understand that there is no such thing as a lazy country! it will take a lot of sweat and tears in all the member states to clean up the debts, get the finances in order and change course. of course, a harsh and unpleasant message for the voters. but if we do not do this, the whole of europe will go bankrupt! it shows how the sustainability of public finances can be undermined in the short term. fortunately, the amendments were not adopted!
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, blasphemy laws in pakistan, as various colleagues have pointed out, are easily abused by extremists as an excuse to use violence against religious or non-religious minorities. of course freedom of religion is important, but freedom from religion is also important. these blasphemy laws in a society in which freedom of expression is repressed in the name of religion pose another risk; last wednesday a court in pakistan banned the social networking site facebook in the country. the pakistani telecom authority instructed all internet providers to block the website. the measure was taken to prevent people from learning about alleged insulting remarks on islam or the prophet mohammed. a cartoonist took the initiative to call on people to produce drawings of the prophet to resist pressures such as that brought upon the popular series south park, which led to edits in the programme. facebook as well as on-line services and platforms are an important virtual passage to the rest of the world. it opens up sources of information and contact for pakistanis and allows them to engage in an exchange of ideas; especially the young generation of pakistanis can be enlightened through the internet, as school materials often contain discriminatory and one-sided language. criminalising free speech is not an effective way of allowing pakistani society to deal with diversity. cartoonists, journalists and citizens should be able to speak their minds freely even if that means insulting some people. challenges to free speech are not exclusively found in pakistan; in europe we face serious challenges to open debate as well. threats to journalists, cartoonists and artists are becoming more common and they challenge our liberal, democratic societies. self-censorship is becoming more common and politicians, cartoonists and journalists now need protection against death threats. let us be inspired to stand for freedom of expression in the european union but also in pakistan and the world over. it is the best remedy against extremism.
for the epp group at the founding of the state of pakistan in 1947, its founder, muhammad ali jinnah, uttered the memorable words: "we start with the fundamental principle that we are all citizens with equal rights". today, especially for the estimated 15 million christians in pakistan, a widespread atmosphere of intimidation and threats surrounds them, both in the cities and in the countryside as far as the capital islamabad. sadly, the pakistani legal system perpetuates the precarious situation of indigenous christians. the result of a historical process of the gradual islamization of pakistani society since the late 1970s, with the resultant alarming deterioration of the legal position of the pakistani christian community. specifically, we are talking about the witness and blasphemy laws of the 1980s, legal instruments that effectively exempt christians. for the testimony of a non-muslim in a court of law is worth only half the testimony of a muslim if the judge wishes to hear all the testimony of a christian! even more dangerous are the blasphemy laws for pakistani christians. they impose life imprisonment for desecration of the koran and the death penalty for disparaging remarks about islam and the prophet muhammad. in short, on the testimony of a random muslim, the life of a christian in pakistan can suddenly end in a death cell! this, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, creates an almost unbearable atmosphere of fear and uncertainty. hundreds of pakistani christians languish in prisons for years without any trial. i therefore urge the council and the commission to link all forms of assistance to the pakistani authorities to the urgent need to end the deadly discrimination against the country's religious minorities.
author. − madam president, thailand is going through a violent crisis with the red-shirt demonstrators on the one hand, and the army and the yellow-shirts on the other. around 80 people have already lost their lives and nearly 2 000 have been injured. democracy is threatened and the country finds itself in a government-declared state of emergency. the state of emergency has resulted in censorship. media sources such as tv, radio and internet have been blocked. halting violence is very important, and we encourage all parties to use self-restraint in the process of doing so, but in seeking to restore the calm the state of emergency should not be abused to restrict fundamental rights and individual freedoms. censorship needs to end and freedom of the media and expression need to be restored. these values are important for the european parliament in their valuable relationship with thailand.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, burma will hold so-called elections this year. however these cannot be free and fair if buddhist monks are banned from voting and the opposition is not even involved. the national league for democracy was disbanded by law this month and aung san suu kyi, a political prisoner and recipient of the european parliament’s sakharov prize for freedom of thought, cannot run in the elections. democracy and the rule of law are essential for economic growth and the european parliament remains strongly committed to the people in burma. asian countries are encouraged to do the same and to use their economic leverage in the process. the burmese people need our support as gross and systematic human rights abuses continue at the hands of the dictatorial state. these serious crimes need to be investigated, yet the government in burma chooses self-isolation and refuses to allow the eu envoy for burma to enter the country. self-isolation impacts the population on many levels such as through news media that cannot operate freely in the country. regrettably the new constitution does not grant human rights, and we call on the commission and the council to support the un recommendations in setting up a commission of inquiry into the human rights violations. in the mean time restrictions on freedom of assembly, association and expression, including those on the internet and mobile phones, need to end. until then restrictive measures provided for in the eu decision will have to be enforced. by banning the trade in arms and by funding refugee programmes, the eu continues to stand by the burmese people and their human rights and fundamental freedoms.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development. − mr president, i am moved by your proverbial patience. thank you very much and my humble apologies. the current economic crisis has hit the developing countries hard – and harder than the countries in the developed world – even though they are not responsible for the causes of this crisis. the same applies to climate change: developing countries have little to do with the causes of climate change, but they are suffering the most from its effects. it is therefore of great importance that the eu makes sure that money meant for development goals actually serves this purpose and this purpose alone. first of all, it means that the budget aimed at supporting developing countries in their fight against the effects of climate change should be additional money. the ‘fast-start’ climate finance package should not come at the expense of existing development cooperation programmes. secondly, i support the principle of financial assistance to the main acp banana-producing countries. however, this should not be financed via the margins, and i strongly oppose the draft proposal by the commission in which funds from the development cooperation instruments are redeployed for this assistance. funds used under the dci must target poverty alleviation, and although i support the creation of an instrument for cooperation with industrialised countries – ici+ – that instrument should not be financed by the dci either.
the european union is a major player in the world economy. i would have liked to have seen mr de gucht, the trade commissioner, sitting next to you, because we are trying to catch up in this house over the next five years. the millennium development goals are not on the agenda, but we all signed them, we all promised to do so. we promised - and i remember that slogan, because i worked for development agencies at the time - "end poverty in the world", or in english "make poverty history". we're still not making history here. and it can. we can talk about 0.7% of our gross national product in aid and even more. we can talk about new forms of financial aid, but that is becoming more and more complicated in these times of economic crisis. but what we really need to talk about is a different way of living together, about fair trade. we may be complaining about being the world's largest provider of development aid, but we should be complaining about being the world's largest consumer market. if we were to act honestly, a lot of help would probably not be needed. somehow it remains easier to give aid than to say "we will no longer compete with small farmers in africa". if we restrict the ability of multinationals to evade taxes, there are a lot of coffers in africa that would be better filled. and when i see how we deal with the voting lists for this resolution, where there is a lot of pushing and shoving, i wonder where the big gesture is. where is our signal that in five years we will really be meeting the millennium development goals?
president. - there are members who claim to be serving the interests of selfemployed drivers if they adhere to the 48-hour working week. these members claim that road safety is served. that is a very nasty campaign, because the selfemployed drivers will continue to be covered by the driving and resting time regulations. there is no risk to road safety. the problem is that some southern european trade unions fear that self-employed romanian and bulgarian drivers will take over the driving. these members are running like trembling lap dogs after the unions. that's the whole point. transport commissioner kallas wants to keep the self-employed driver out of the directive. he deserves our support in the votes tomorrow. if that fails, 16 june will be a black day in the history of the european parliament. the citizen will then be left with a staircase and piles of bureaucracy. and then complain that the next election will be even lower.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his statement at the beginning of this debate and i would also like to thank mrs sommer for her work as rapporteur. i have the impression, having been in this parliament for almost a year, that we think that with simple legislation we can change the behaviour of millions of europeans for a moment. that is the same idea we have in this regulation. we have to realize that nothing is as difficult as changing people's behavior, especially when it involves 500 million people. so the influence that we're ultimately going to have on that behavior through labeling is going to be limited. that does not mean that i am completely dismissing this regulation, not at all. but we must be realistic about the power of this instrument. we must realize that consumers have a right to information. and whatever the outcome of this debate, consumers will have much more information at the end of the second reading. in the long run, however, we need to invest more in education and educate people from the bottom up to lead healthy lifestyles. another point is that the debate in this parliament is about the fundamental aims of this directive. is it forcing people to make healthy food choices or is it giving people the choice to determine for themselves what food they choose? we liberals believe that we should give the people the information and that the people have the power to make the choices themselves. finally, we need to find a balance in the amount of information we give people. too much will never work, and too little will never work. i think we're on the right track on our own. let's trust that the people who can vote for us also have enough power to choose the right food in the store, if they're given the right information.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: tomorrow you will confess. do you support a clear colour coding system for food labels or do you rely on industry? the political choice is simple as far as i am concerned. if you want to protect commercial interests, you support the ideas of the food industry. if you want a label that helps you choose for yourself whether it's high, medium or low in sugar, salt or fat, vote for a color-coding system. 60% of your constituents are overweight. 25% of our children are overweight. 25% of people have reading problems. why is it that everyone finds color codes on, say, energy labels for homes, cars, or electronics normal, but it's peculiar on food? nutritionists and consumer organizations recommend simple color coding so that food labels are understandable and you can make an easy choice for yourself. i support that, too.
i suggest that you send the explanation you have given, which was clear to me, by e-mail to all members. i regret that many colleagues who are always at the top of the list when it comes to transparency, clarity and democracy have now rushed to lunch. perhaps it will be clear to them if you have it sent to them by e-mail.
in writing. − i support all efforts to make rail freight more effective, because of its environmental advantages compared to road freight. however, i want to make it clear that i oppose the ongoing liberalisation of railways in the european union, which is responsible for the fragmentation and ineffectiveness of rail freight today, as well as the lack of investment in this area. this compromise with the council is an effort to improve the situation. therefore i am voting in favour, even though it builds on the liberalisation that i strongly oppose. this vote does not concern deregulation, which is already provided for in the treaty.
in writing. − explanation of vote on marinescu (a7-0162/2010). i support efforts to make rail freight more effective, because of its environmental advantages compared to road freight. however, i want to make it clear that i oppose the ongoing liberalisation of railways in the european union, which is responsible for the fragmentation, lack of investment and ineffectiveness of rail freight today. this compromise with the council is an effort to improve the situation, so i voted for it, but it builds on the liberalisation that i strongly oppose. this vote does not however concern deregulation, which is already in the treaty.
president barroso, you have just made a clear statement. the european commission is the economic government of europe. but in this time of strengthening economic governance, we need more of a community method. we are on your side, but there are ideas in the council to move more towards an intergovernmental approach, including for example the stability and growth pact. what crucial elements regarding the task force and the outcome do you think these conclusions should contain in order to strengthen economic governance and strengthen the stability and growth pact with the community method? can you give us some concrete elements? that's also very good for the public debate.
mr president, on the regulation and the multiannual financial framework, i have asked the council and the commission written questions some time ago, in particular on the proposed article 8 (3) of this regulation and on the judgment of the european court of justice of 6 may 2008 in case c-133/06. the council said that it was still considering the regulation and i would therefore like to know whether it has already made a statement on this article 8 (3). the commission, on the other hand, argues that the regulation, and therefore article 8 (3), has no second legal basis and refers to article 312 of the treaty of lisbon. could the commission elaborate on this? i'm not convinced yet. i see clearly a second legal basis here, because there is no mention of unanimity in the council, which is required by article 312 (2). i therefore believe that an illegal decision-making process is being created which has been prohibited by the court in the judgment referred to above. moreover, i would like to emphasise that the article 312 (2) bridge provision was blocked by the dutch parliament in november 2009 and cannot be an option.
mr president, the debate on mr böge's question is not really very fruitful. the interim review envisaged has not taken place and what is now being promised is also extremely meagre. we must also send parliament's message in this connection. i would like to make three suggestions. first of all, if there is no new money, we just have to re-prioritize within the budgets. we need to look carefully at where the big money is in agriculture and in the cohesion fund and focus much more on the agreements around eu 2020 and the other needs. secondly, there must be more flexibility, as the commissioner has already indicated. otherwise we would never have been able to raise the money for the recovery plan in the context of the crisis. we need to look for more where there's still room and where we could put the money in different ways. thirdly, we also have to innovate. for example, we have used the transfer of funds from the seventh framework programme for research to the eib. it has also been used to provide subordinated loans to industry and universities, which, at this time of crisis, will give a great boost to investment in the years ahead. i'd like to know how you're handling this case, how you're linking content and money. and also: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he agrees with the views expressed so often in this house.
author. − mr president, it is almost a year since our new european parliament was elected. it is almost half a year since commissioner reding was appointed. so we have four years left together to really make a difference for women and men. how we as a parliament, and ms reding as commissioner, are judged at the end of those four years will depend on the action that we take and on the support that we can muster in society. no one will be impressed by mere words. i do not want to have to say in four years’ time, ‘look, this is a piece of paper from ms reding, and here is a huge stack of parliament resolutions’. i want to be able to say, ‘yes, we have secured two weeks’ paternity leave for all european fathers. yes, we have adapted our equality laws to include all terrains, to include transgender people. yes, we have a system in place that ensures gender parity for the next european commission.’ i want to say, ‘yes, the gender pay gap is closing, with more women with decent jobs and decent pay. and yes, the gender care gap is closing, with more men who take their share of unpaid care.’ i hope that all groups in this parliament are united to deliver two strong reports tomorrow – the figueiredo and the romeva i rueda reports – and i hope that ms reding will have the courage to turn these reports into action, even when there is not an easy majority in council beforehand. we cannot do this alone. we need to involve those to whom this is important. i am not too happy with how the women’s charter up to now has been drafted, with no involvement of parliament or of civil society, but i will accept that this is the way that the european commission has made an opening statement to lay down its commitment to gender equality. it is more important what happens next. in answer to our questions, i would very much like to hear from ms reding how she will draft an ambitious strategy for our coming four years.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all on behalf of my group, i would like to thank both rapporteurs and tell them that my group will wholeheartedly endorse both reports because they deal with a very important issue, gender equality, the importance of which i think is also demonstrated by the rich choice of subjects covered by both reports. but, colleagues, i have to say that i am a little bit frustrated because, if we claim that we want action, that we want to achieve something in the next four years, that this is an issue of the highest priority, that half the population is being discriminated against and half the potential remains unused, then how come we are having this debate in the last evening slot? where are the group leaders? why do we accept that this is not the highest priority? i suggest, colleagues, that we insist that, next time, this issue should be included in the agenda as a key debate and unless they grant us that we could chain ourselves to the door. i do not think we should accept this any more.
the special problems and the special situation in the baltic sea require a special approach. i am therefore very pleased that we can now conclude the matter in an agreement and that work can begin. but still, a few speculations. the commissioner said it too, we went in the first instance for a real common pot, for a joint fund in which the criteria of excellence, interdisciplinary approach, etc. are maintained. in the course of the consultation we have come to a somewhat pragmatic approach, that countries may also 'shop' within the list of projects to bring their own universities and institutions to the fore. i have nothing against it in itself, i am in favour of it, but we must evaluate it. it has to be done efficiently. and if it is done well and if people work together better than in the past, it may be an example of what we are looking for in eu-2020. europe is contributing and the member states are contributing. then there is the question of implementation, not just research. we also need to reduce the ecological quality effectively, so let us follow it closely. two other comments: firstly, the approach in the baltic sea can also serve as a model for other macro-regions, such as the danube. perhaps i could ask the commissioner if he is thinking of that region in the same way. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, sports betting is an unprotected profession with little or no control, let alone sanctions for misconduct such as human trafficking. the eu has investigated and found abuses, and the eu is not doing anything about it yet. and you should. i am very concerned about the vulnerability of underage players, particularly from third world countries, who are often victims of human trafficking. the eu must put a stop to this. the resolution makes specific proposals: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to present their opinions on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. concrete action is required to address wild west conditions. the commission should ensure that improved enforcement and sanctioning of abusive practices, which are often cross-border, is ensured. and the rights of underage players must be properly safeguarded at all times.
i would like to commend the commission, mr president, for the proposals it has made, the proposals of commissioners rehn and barnier, and the direction it has taken, because the financial markets are still testing the european union's ability to act. parliament will challenge you - and i am addressing the council - to take the decisions needed to strengthen european economic governance, because that is what we are concerned about. look at the council's position on european financial supervision. the council must be much more willing to meet parliament's expectations. we want to compromise. go to the top and ask the heads of government to commit. because if the council does not act, then we will lose precious time in getting the supervisors to really get to work on 1 january. today parliament votes with broad support for two important resolutions. we want a central role for the european commission, more of a community method, strengthening of the stability and growth pact, which fortunately the socialist group is now also supporting. and that's very important in these difficult times. but we also want to ask you - and that is to the council and the commission - to take the institutional role of this parliament, our democratic role, more seriously and to involve us in this process.
president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs ashton, first of all i would like to thank the colleagues who have worked with me to ensure that the resolution was clear and correct. our resolution contains a number of very critical remarks about the rostov summit, and like some commentators we attribute the poor result to the fact that russia prefers to do bilateral business with member states rather than with the european union, because - as they say - we are still not speaking with one voice. how do you see the cooperation at this summit? do you feel that you could really have made a european voice heard there? then, four specific questions. was there any discussion at the summit about the partnership agreement? i think it is of the utmost importance that we conclude a comprehensive and legally binding agreement that goes beyond mere economic cooperation or new energy agreements. but democracy and human rights must also be an integral part of the partnership agreement. does this new partnership agreement have any priority for you and for the russian side? i feel excluded as a member of parliament from the partnership for modernisation. of course, you can conclude cooperation agreements, but the new modernization agenda is characterized by ambiguity. i would not only have liked to discuss this initiative with you in advance, but i think that the wto, the energy charter and the fight against corruption are much more important for the modernisation of the russian economy. i would also like to say something about the four common areas. is the new modernisation agenda not the same as what we have previously agreed with the four common areas? in any case, we must make a strong commitment to human rights policy in this resolution. you both did. there are also a number of amendments which are before us. i think it would be better to include these amendments in the report on russia.
mr president, since the time of tsar peter the great, russia and europe have had different interpretations and applications of the concept of modernisation. a material approach versus a more comprehensive interpretation, both material and immaterial. this was reflected again at the last eu-russia summit in rostov-on-don earlier this month. after signing a partnership for modernisation, president medvedev indicated that it was meant primarily in a technocratic sense. the european institutions therefore have the important task of continuing to appeal to the russian leadership for the necessary intangible aspects of genuine social modernisation, the safeguarding of basic fundamental rights in a free civil society. worryingly, the new powers of the russian fsb security service point the other, the wrong way, criticized the presidential human rights observer vladimir lukin. he rightly warns of the boomerang effect on the institutions of the state itself. his position deserves our full support, because the putin model must not be replicated in the region or in ukraine.
in writing. - today, in the vote on the bauer report, i voted against the commission's proposal for a directive on working time in road transport. this would bring the selfemployed within the scope of the directive. i'm aware that the traditional self-driver values being your own boss. in my view, however, the only way to force the commission to come forward quickly with a proposal to deal with the allegedly self-evident is to vote against it. these pseudo-independent drivers pose a direct threat to the drivers in the workforce. after this fundamental problem has been solved, a rapid review of what is best for the selfemployed is necessary.
in writing. - truck drivers may be employees, self-employed or quasi-self-employed. the latter are actually workers and should be given the same rights. the ep therefore asked the european commission in 2005 to clarify the situation through a legislative initiative. the present system of working time in road transport does not sufficiently regulate the legal position of the selfemployed and does not remedy any possible shortcomings. that is why i voted against this commission proposal, with the clear demand for a new and better regulation. the situation of genuine selfemployed drivers is, of course, different from that of employees and must remain so. i would therefore like the new regulation which we are asking the european commission to introduce to make the distinction between selfemployed and employed persons fair. there must be a proper regulation of working time in road transport which protects workers, abolishes the appearance of self-employment, gives rights to self-employed workers and which, together with the regulation of driving and rest times, ensures a safe situation on the road.
in writing. - a healthy diet is important. but how do you make a choice in that? reliable and comprehensible information on the packaging plays a major role. this new directive gives consumers better and clearer information, the main information appearing on the front of the pack and a more detailed description on the back. this allows the consumer to compare at a glance and, if he wishes, to choose a healthier product. a colour system indicating on the front whether the food was high or low in salt or high or low in fat was agreed by parliament. i voted for this system because it provides clarity to the consumer without being too informative. the original stoplight system, which indicated by red and green whether the product was unhealthy or healthy, was not put to the vote, as it had already been rejected. i found this system too simplistic and somewhat boring. the opportunity lost in this new system is not only the adjustment of the colour system but also the exclusion of alcohol. it is a pity that parliament did not vote for clear information on alcohol, such as the amount of calories, sugar and other additives. this new system will allow for healthier food if the consumer wants it.
in writing. - the key here is that consumers have a right to know what is in their food. they should be able to make an informed choice on the basis of clear information. the focus should be on clarity for consumers and feasibility for businesses. but more information is not always better! take for example the 'country of origin' labelling of products. this national approach is purely protectionist and therefore damaging, in particular, to european and dutch exporting companies. it sends out the wrong signal and actually an old-fashioned signal. a country of origin actually provides little information to the consumer and creates high costs for producers. i therefore regret that this house has chosen this part.
on 31 may, nine people were killed in the israeli commando operation on the mavi marmara. the soldiers said they were surprised by the very rough reception on that ship and felt compelled to fire live ammunition. i found that statement remarkable. one did not expect to be greeted on board with coffee, tea and pastries, did one? so the big question is: why didn't israel stop the ships by other means? there were other options, however, conceivable and available to the israeli military leadership, which would probably have resulted in far fewer casualties and violence. an investigation is therefore very much desirable, and israel is taking it very well. there will be a thorough investigation, including two prominent foreigners. among them, nobel peace prize winner lord trimble is the most famous. in the meantime, israel can replace the list of 43 items that can cross the border with a list that only lists what gaza cannot enter.
the turkish government and the turkish foundation for humanitarian aid and human rights, abbreviated ihh, are not to be forgotten in the bloody confrontation between the israeli navy and the so-called 'freedom fleet' on monday 31 may. why is the european union, why are you, madam high representative, so silent about turkish responsibility for this escalation of a deliberate political provocation? baroness ashton, you know as well as i do that the islamic ihh was the driving force behind the gaza flotilla and that this unusual humanitarian organization is the blood brother of hamas. it even goes so far as to promise mass turkish martyrdom for the palestinian cause (see the statements made by its president last year). madam high representative, you know as well as i do that the turkish islamists of the ihh played with fire against the jewish state under the watchful eye of the erdogan government, and that after the tragedy the same turkish government then called the israelis to account in a deeply insulting manner. when will the european union's accession country hold turkey to account for the tragedy on the mavi marmara? speaking of turkey's self-disqualification for eu membership! one more call, one positive. madam high representative, break through the unbearable isolation of gilad shalit. see that he's released.
president, armed with various murder weapons for a small club of self-styled peace activists heading for gaza. the israeli navy asked them to stop, but in response they are told that, and i quote, "they could die and have to return to auschwitz". the soldiers, however, did board the ship and were greeted peacefully by activists with metal pipes and threw them over the railing. the purpose of the flotilla was not to bring humanitarian aid to the gaza strip, but to seek provocation and a violent confrontation with israel. the passengers of the mavi marmara, including turkish ihh activists, stated that there were close links between the organisation and turkish prime minister erdogan, and that the government of turkey, the candidate country, was involved in the preparations for the fleet. is that true, and what do you do with that information? is it true that the turkish organization ihh, present on the ship, is linked to hamas? may i remind you that hamas is still considered by the eu to be a terrorist organisation? i need an answer. the pvv wants at least an independent inquiry into turkey's role in all this. what exactly has been the influence of erdogan and his cronies? i'd like a response.
mr president, i would also like to pay tribute to the colleagues we work on human rights with. it is a really pleasant collaboration on such an important topic. there can hardly be a more urgent moment to address europe’s responsibility when it comes to human rights in the world. i just want to stress that we, as members of the european parliament from all political groups, have just launched a written declaration on behalf of the european people to support the iranian people and their call for human rights. we have just met with nazanin afshin-jam, who is a human rights leader who focuses on ending child executions. this is just one reminder of the brutal things people do to each other and the practices we really have to stop. the external action service will lead to a more effective and coordinated european foreign policy, and human rights deserve ongoing attention in an integrated, comprehensive manner. unfortunately, we have a sad competition of geographical areas where human rights violations take place, as well as horizontal issues – such as women’s rights and freedom of expression – that need attention because they are being violated. iran’s regime serves as an example of all these violations. iran is on our political agendas but the international community is mainly preoccupied with the nuclear challenge. as challenging as this is, we cannot allow this to be a zero-sum game versus human rights. sanctions will be imposed by the un and the european union but i am not necessarily optimistic about the concrete results that these will render. empowering the population and standing up for their rights as autonomously legitimate may also render bottom-up reforms. domestic opposition thus far seems to move the iranian regime more than international sanctions, so this is a clear indicator. this week it has been one year since the presidential elections took place in iran, and they mark the beginning of a renewed and brutal crack down by the regime against its own people. over the past year the regime has cut off the minimal freedoms that the population still had and has virtually silenced the opposition. many have fled and they could have an opportunity if they could be taken into europe as human rights defenders and dissidents. they could be considered an asset in developing our policies and should not just be seen as a threat or a burden. so i would like to encourage you, high representative… (the president cut off the speaker.)
i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, doris pack, for the good cooperation. now about bosnia: the future of bosnia-herzegovina is in the european union. but the bosnian political leaders must show a common will and action for that future and refrain from nationalist polarizing rhetoric. the bosnians must no longer be held hostage by the reluctance of their political leaders. in the area of visa liberalisation, it was indeed possible to make a concerted effort to reform and visa-free travel to europe is now within reach for bosnians. but reforms are not the only things needed on the path to the eu. it is also about being a well-functioning state for its own citizens. a country in which all citizens can participate, regardless of their group or minority. the european court of human rights has ruled that the bosnian constitution is in breach of human rights and that amendment is urgently needed so that all bosnians have the right to vote and be elected. i cannot stress enough the importance of regional cooperation in the western balkans for stability and progress. the balkan countries have a responsibility to each other to progress in harmony. where disputes exist with neighbouring countries, as in the case of croatia's planned construction of the pelješac bridge, a solution must be negotiated. finally, i would like to stress that reconciliation with the wartime past is of the utmost importance for bosnia-herzegovina. women who were victims of rape and other sexual violence during the war deserve justice. bosnia and herzegovina must punish the perpetrators and provide more support to these women. this july marks the 15th anniversary of the terrible genocide in srebrenica. this tragic history must be given a place in the collective memory of the balkans. the various resolutions adopted by parliaments in the western balkans are very welcome in this context, but also the recent apology by the croatian president for croatian policy in bosnia-herzegovina during the war is an important gesture and a step towards ethnic reconciliation in the balkans.
president. - the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: there are two very positive points: the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. with these two positive points, we should now also look at the bosnian politicians and say: "if you can, you can also make a comparison. because that is what stands between you and membership of the european union. that will come, but it will only come for bosnia-herzegovina as a unity". if we can get that message across, they'll come. bosnia has to do something, and i am thinking of the position of vulnerable groups in society, the ethnic conflicts, the right to freedom of expression. we are all very happy to see such improvements.
president. - our thoughts are with the victims of all the floods in central europe, but also with those in france today. these floods are another painful demonstration of the power that rivers can exert on us. we want to prevent flooding, and that is why we must look to the future. how can we prevent them? because we also know that climate change is causing rivers to process more water more often in less time. that means we have to look much more closely at how we can give space to our rivers and how we can prevent this kind of disaster in europe. because prevention is better than cure. europe really has a big role to play in this. first of all, countries need to cooperate much more across borders. if one country does something about its river area and another country doesn't, we're not getting anywhere. we need cooperation between countries in dealing with rivers. secondly, the eu must also take responsibility for its own funds in the future. too often now, eu structural funds are going to projects that only increase the risk of flooding. we must ensure that future eu projects that we finance do not increase these kinds of risks. that's an important assignment. finally, we as the eu must also explore how we can better use the natural buffer capacity of rivers to prevent these floods. concrete and more concrete only increases the risk of more flooding. so yes, we need space for rivers, and we need to use the natural buffer capacity. it's the only way to prevent future flooding. that must be our main objective for the future. prevention is better than cure.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted a report on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. - i would like to thank the rapporteur for his good work and for the adoption of some of the recommendations of the envi committee. as rapporteur for an opinion, i would like to make a few comments, because in the future there will probably be more and more aquaculture and more and more pressure on people, animals and the environment. so we have to take very strict measures to protect them. many forms of aquaculture still have negative impacts, such as habitat destruction, use of chemicals, depletion and salinization of drinking water and agricultural land, disruption of biodiversity through fish and farmed fish escaping, and the displacement of indigenous populations in third countries from their habitats for industrial aquaculture. we need regulations on this. a sustainable certification system for aquaculture products is needed, certifying, inter alia, environmental and social impacts, food safety, animal welfare and economic and financial issues. i may sound a little negative, but i'm sure there's a future for aquaculture. we just have to make sure that this becomes a sustainable and animal-friendly aquaculture.
president, this week we are talking in this house and also in the european council about eu 2020: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. i think the milana report fits in perfectly. we consume a total of 5 million tonnes of aquaculture products in the union, and only 1 million tonnes come from the union itself. there are opportunities in that. i note from the words of the colleagues, particularly from scotland, that there is a great deal of experience. can i add an experience from the netherlands? we have the blue port project in the delta region of zeeland, in the eastern scheldt. we're working on the zeeuw tongue there. it is an excellent example of research in which a lot of investment is made, technological development and it remains within the standards of ecology and public health. there is a clear and sustainable cycle: the fish produce manure, the manure feeds the algae, the coral and the lamb's ear. this then becomes food for shellfish and sawfish, and those sawfish are used as food for the tongue. that's how you get a sustainable, closed loop and new business. this, if done right, is economically very important for coastal regions. europe had a great deal of knowledge, but that basic knowledge is not being shared fast enough, and i therefore call for intensive cooperation between the new initiatives, research, research and development. we have programs for that. i am not referring only to the fisheries fund, but also to the regional programmes and to decentralized cofinancing. i repeat, i support it wholeheartedly. there's a chance of a catch-up. one more thing: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets.
i am grateful to mr romeva i rueda for his excellent report. this report is important. as we say in dutch, "measuring is knowing", that provides the basis for further decision. but let's not fool ourselves politically. we've known what to do for a long time. we're going to have to temporarily stop fishing for bluefin tuna. i was personally present at the cites debacle in march. a divided european union has had no influence on the final result. the world, led by japan, has decided not to ban trade in bluefin tuna. the argument is: this is not going to be within cites, this is going to be within iccat. we'll have that chance in paris in november. my question to the commission is: i would like to ask the commissioner whether it is the intention of europe - and i would like to ask him to do so - to introduce a temporary ban on fishing, a quota of zero, in the framework of the iccat? and is the commission prepared to take that position in the very near future? we are not going to make the same mistake as we did with cites, which is to take a stand at the very last moment and then not be able to convince the rest of the world of our stand. so a very specific question to the commissioner: when will you make your statement to the iccat meeting? will that be a zero quota and will you then also start a strong lobby within the world to get that zero quota done?
author. − mr president, after a decade of civil war a peace deal was struck in nepal in 2006, but unfortunately the country has become less peaceful despite the deal. political fights are resulting in political instability and hamper important reforms such as a constitution for the republic, the deadline for which has recently had to be extended for one year. it also hampers the reintegration and rehabilitation of former pla combatants. nepal has such enormous potential to develop economically and to limit the prevailing poverty, but stability is essential in making that happen. firstly, accountability for the systematic abuse of laws of war needs to urgently happen, including among members of the pla and the state security forces. the un should play a role in this process, especially when it comes to participation in international armed forces. in nepal itself the work of the commission on disappearances, the truth and reconciliation commission and the commission on national peace and rehabilitation should result not only in a sense of responsibility for the past but a stake in a shared future as well. the parties – but also the government – should end political interference in criminal proceedings to create a politically independent judiciary within the constitutional process and, in the same connection, to plan the ratification of the statute of the international criminal court. we call on the eu and the member states to support all the efforts of the nepalese government and the parties to find a solution to the integration of former maoist combatants into the national army or other security forces and to find viable alternative solutions for those who cannot be integrated. the eu itself should also strictly adhere to a ban on exporting lethal weapons to nepal as well as the export of any tools which can be used for torture or inhumane treatment, as was stated in the resolution which was adopted by this house today.
author. − mr president, europe as a community of values is also a union where the death penalty is entirely banned and i am very proud of that. libya not only resists abolishing the death penalty, it also widely executes it, such as happened recently, on 30 may, when 18 people of different nationalities were executed, according to the cerene newspaper, which is a paper close to the government. this leads to all kinds of questions about free media, but it does lead us to believe that this is a credible source in this matter. the most serious punishment, the death penalty, is not only used in cases of serious crimes; freedom of association and expression have also led to the death penalty in libya. we believe in more engagement of libya with the international community and welcome this at any time over self-isolation of the people in the hands of their authoritarian regime. in 2003 the eu lifted sanctions against the country and in 2007 negotiations on the framework agreement started. i very much hope we can continue to work together with libya. however, this is only possible when the libyan government commits to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all its people. the recent closing of the unhcr offices in tripoli is another regrettable move which causes a further drifting-off of libya from the international community. in the light of this, the united nations should seriously rethink libya’s place in its organisation. given the continuing breaches of human rights, it is deplorable and highly inappropriate that libya has a seat on the un human rights council. membership of this council should be granted only to those countries that respect human rights themselves. otherwise the entire body loses its credibility, such as when iran was a member of the women’s rights council in the un, which is equally regrettable and tarnishes the credibility of the entire organisation. the european parliament urges libya to end death penalties and to ensure fair trials in line with international standards. member states in europe should be aware of their responsibilities when extraditing refugees and others to libya, as there is a serious risk that these people will be subject to inhumane treatment.
on behalf of the ppe group president, ladies and gentlemen, the epp group is pleased that the european council under your presidency has made important progress towards the necessary improvement of european economic governance and a joint effort in the g20. the crisis forces us to finally work on creating a more solid basis for the survival of the euro. budget deficits must be tackled in order to regain the confidence of the financial markets and also the confidence of our citizens. parliament supported the strengthening of the preventive arm of the stability and growth pact. the european stress test, the imposition of sanctions. but it will be up to the task force to work out a practical solution, because the intergovernmental method will not help us out of the crisis. we believe that compliance must be firmly established, embedded in a community governance structure. no new institutions, and fortunately this is not supported in the council, but a strong and independent role for the commission. it is good, commissioner barroso, that you will come forward with further proposals in the coming months. in parliament last week you said that the commission is the economic government of europe. you were applauded in plenary for that. but it is appropriate that you should make a generous and ambitious use of your institutional right of initiative. strengthening competitiveness in the 27 member states is exactly what we want to achieve with the europe 2020 strategy. with a strong small and medium-sized enterprise as our job engine. the content is pretty good, but my concern remains how member states can be repaid for their efforts, and that is crucial to success. our group calls on you to give more concrete form to this point in the task force. because if we do not manage this properly, we risk ending up with a kind of lisbon strategy that has not been successful. that is not in the interests of our citizens, their jobs and economic growth. mr president, you called for a swift decision on the financial surveillance package. but you know that the problem is not here in this parliament. the problem is the council, because the council is still not prepared to put the de larosière report into practice, into legislation. there has been too little progress under the spanish presidency, so you would do well to call on your colleagues in the council to be as willing to compromise as parliament is. because that's crucial to getting the january 1st date.
mr president, i should like to begin by expressing my satisfaction at the result of the elections in the netherlands, because my party, the party for freedom, has increased from 9 to 24 seats. so after the success of the european elections, we have now won the national elections with a bang. because the dutch want less immigration, they want more security and above all they want less europe. the single market in europe is working fine, but the pumping of money from 'good' to 'weak' states must stop. this sham parliament, mr verhofstadt, mr schulz and mr barroso, is therefore completely unnecessary, because it is simply a waste of money. and the tough talk you have here about intervening, you should have done that years ago when greece came up with false figures. you've been cheated for years because you were blind. blind to your own expansionist drive. you know, mr president, you are still the same. take a look at the list of countries that are now knocking on the door to join: the european union has a long history of supporting the peace process in the region. and today we're also talking about iceland, a bankrupt country. a country which wants to continue to allow the hideous whaling and a country which, according to the preliminary conclusions of the investigation, has deceived the dutch bank. do you remember greece doing the same? you refuse to perform. you tell iceland, "come on in, you can keep hunting whales, you can cheat on the numbers, and the fact that you're broke doesn't make a difference". you are blinded by your desire for expansion and you are causing great suffering to our citizens. (the president agreed to answer a question under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
mr president, i can be very clear about that. what we are doing here is fighting people like you and making sure that the european citizens hear the truth about this money-spending parliament. we are anxious to see your constant drive for expansion put to an end. that's why we won the election, and next time we'll be even bigger.
mr president, thank you for your flexibility. it went a little faster than i expected. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs ayala sender, on the results achieved in the report on the rights of passengers in maritime and inland waterway transport. i was a shadow rapporteur for our epp group and you know that we had some very substantial discussions. we as the epp obviously attach great importance to passenger rights. it is important that people can rely on good quality transport and that disabled people can also get good help and assistance. it is also important to look at the characteristics of this industry. there are a lot of small companies with one or two ships, historic ships that can't be refitted, but they have a crew that is very helpful and helps people. i am glad that we have now been able to incorporate this flexibility and that we have put in place good passenger rights in european legislation which are also well implemented in practice by these small companies, because our sector is so rich in this in many european countries. so it's very important that we've achieved that, and i hope that we can soon achieve a similar kind of result for bus and coach passengers.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's maritime transport sector is not left behind. fortunately, data exchange on the ship's cargo is becoming much easier. at the same time, the committee on transport has made a few points in the debate. as regards inland waterway transport, for example, we have agreed that the european commission will report on whether the simplified procedures can also be applied to that sector, and i hope that the european commission will eventually reach that conclusion and the corresponding legislative proposals. as regards the exemption from piloting, it is hoped that a common framework will be established which will make competition between piloting services even fairer and at the same time continue to guarantee the quality of the piloting. mr sterckx has already mentioned it, the committee on transport also wanted to see a single language and the member states have promised a formula to make communication more common. i think that is a first step, but too modest. as long as there are still casualties and even deaths because those involved in a shipwreck sometimes speak three or more languages and do not understand each other, i will continue to work, mr president, to ensure that the common language between maritime and inland navigation, and also inland navigation, is english. this is a real step forward in terms of safety.
the report on the sustainable future of transport discusses the importance of the transport sector for the european economy and the completion of the internal market. this sounds promising at first, but unfortunately the report turns into a list of many left-wing hobbies: environmental protection, carbon reduction, improvement of social conditions, improved working conditions, you can't think of it that crazy or it's being quoted. of course, all this must be directed from europe. consumers and businesses will be burdened with high costs to meet the latest european requirements and these transport plans will ultimately be funded by european subsidies. these ambitions are destroying european economies. even before the current recession, europe was unable to keep up with the growth rates of the united states, let alone emerging economies like india and china. now, after the failure of the copenhagen climate conference, europe is making a desperate unilateral attempt to reduce the use of fossil fuels. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 27 june 2013 and that the agreement was signed on 27 june 2013. how do they intend to achieve this in practice? are electric planes coming soon? although this report aims at financial and social prosperity in europe, it seems to be heading towards an increasingly weaker economic position of the european union with less employment and lower prosperity as a result. europe will never achieve what it wants. mr president, let us concentrate on the crux of the matter here, and that is an economically viable future for transport. if member states want to add policy to that, that is their own business, but please do not impose a european planned economy.
president. - the freedom party will vote in favour of the agreement with the united states and therefore the report underlying it. cooperation in the fight against terrorism is of the utmost importance to me and to my party. but let us not forget why it is unfortunately necessary to work with the united states in this way. the global jihad threatens the world more and more. the middle east is the source of funding and ideological encouragement for the struggle against western norms and values. let us be very clear about that. president, on 11 september 2001 i was personally present in washington dc and visited the pentagon site a few hours after the attacks. there was an impenetrable and indefinable smell of a plane that had crashed into a building. that was a terrible smell, mr president. it was the smell of terrorism. if we can prevent acts of terrorism by approving the agreement with the united states this week, that would be fantastic.
mr president, i will vote in favour, but with great reluctance and hesitation. this agreement has serious shortcomings which leave it open to legal challenge. it puts the final verdict in the hands of the courts, rather than the policymakers, where it belongs. concluding international agreements that are not legally watertight is a risky strategy. this agreement is therefore no reason for jubilation, but it is the least bad option. although i share many of the doubts and concerns of the ‘no’ voters, rejection will not result in a better agreement and we all know that. why? because the member state governments – not the us government, our own governments – insist that the bank data of european citizens be processed by third countries. it is only thanks to the european parliament that our personal data will in future be filtered by european authorities under our own control. putting an end to the bulk data transfer in the longer term is major progress that we should recognise. finally, colleagues, this house, by voting ‘no’, has a heavy responsibility to ensure quick and full implementation of the council decision.
president. - mr president, very briefly, our group would like to ask for an electronic vote, a majority vote.
president. - on behalf of the epp group, i would like to ask for a majority vote in the final vote, if possible.
in writing. the freedom party is committed to the rights of passengers, especially those with disabilities. we therefore want to ensure that the rights of these passengers are protected as much as possible. we do not think, however, that european legislation is the appropriate instrument for protecting passenger rights. the pvv believes that it should remain the responsibility of the member states to ensure that passenger rights are adequately protected. the netherlands is best placed to tailor its policies to suit its own needs. for example, in the netherlands there are already local policies for passenger infrastructure and access for disabled passengers travelling by sea or inland waterways. member states, provinces and municipalities are best placed to assess what is needed to meet national and local needs. in addition, this european-imposed directive may in practice lead to additional costs for small terminals and self-employed persons who have to close their businesses as a result. the proposal also means that in future the netherlands will have to pay part of the adjustment costs in countries which are not doing well. this has led us to vote against the proposal before us.
on behalf of the ppe group mr barroso, commissioner rehn, your proposals are an important step towards strengthening economic governance in europe. i am glad that you are also actively exercising your right of initiative and are not waiting to see what the council's task force will come up with. our group supports the proposals and is willing to work closely with you and the council to ensure that they are implemented as quickly as possible. cooperate also to take the next step towards a community approach. no new institutions, but a strong and independent role for the european commission. a european council committed to a common approach and democratic control by the european parliament. as far as the ppe group is concerned, those are the ingredients for the legislative proposals which you will be submitting to us at the beginning of september. we expect a lot from the european semester with the coordination of national action programmes. major reforms and painful measures in the member states are needed to strengthen the competitiveness of our member states. it will bring jobs and prosperity to our citizens. we also expect a lot of the measures to strengthen the stability and growth pact to be implemented with a stick in the door, that is, with sanctions. you called the package of measures a toolbox. much will depend on how the toolbox is filled in concrete. one of our dutch football teams has a motto: not words but deeds. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. and it is not just words but deeds when it comes to legislation on the european supervision of financial institutions. the council has accepted the report by jacques de larosière, but that must now be translated into action, into legislation, into supervisory bodies with real powers that can start on 1 january. it is therefore essential that the council actually does so. parliament will vote tomorrow, but we will keep the door open for the council to reach an agreement at the economic and financial affairs council this month. that means agreeing with parliament's position on the powers of this new supervisor, because parliament will be on its toes, not in its own interest, but in the interest of the citizen, to bring calm to the financial markets so that we can look to the future with confidence.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would also like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs and colleagues present and absent for the really great cooperation. the aim of the new food regulation should, in my view, be broader than purely food safety aspects, because in today's society other aspects also play an important role for the consumer. think of environmental aspects, animal welfare aspects and ethical concerns. we are talking here about food that has been tampered with. innovation is fine, but not at the expense of human life and health. fortunately, a large majority of parliament agrees with me on this and i hope that we can also persuade the council to do the same. what are novel foods? well, these are products that were not on the eu market before 15 may 1997 because, for example, they had not been invented yet or because we in the eu did not yet know them as food. one example of this is nanotechnology. the producers are keen to bring this to the market. for consumers, innovation is always a great pleasure, and new technologies can also help us to combat obesity, for example. on the other hand, we must be very careful about allowing new technologies unless we are sure that these new technologies are not harmful to health, the environment or animal welfare. one of my principles is that when a new food is introduced on the market, the precautionary principle must always apply. no safety is guaranteed, not on our board. the consumer must also always have a choice, so if it is a novel food, state it on the label. now for the stumbling block: meat of cloned animals and their offspring. research has shown that consumers are increasingly spending money on animal products that have been produced in a way that is animal-friendly. cloned animals are often mutilated or have diseases. most of them are not even born alive, so animal kindness is a long way off. in the eu, cloning animals for human consumption is not yet a commercial practice. however, the possibility that imported clone meat is already on our plate cannot be ruled out. there are no specific eu rules on cloned meat, nor on the marketing of cloned seeds. the debate around cloned meat is not new. the european parliament has been debating animal cloning since 2006. in 2008, it adopted a resolution by neil parish to regulate the trade in cloned meat. however, in discussions with the council on this report it became clear that parliament's call would not be heeded. the council considered that meat from cloned animals should be covered by the new food rules. parliament therefore failed to reach agreement with the council at second reading. if parliament were to agree to cloned meat as part of the new food regulation, parliament would indirectly agree to cloned meat being on your plate. the new food regulation will also focus on safety for consumption and much less on animal welfare and ethical aspects. i therefore urge that separate regulations be made on the cloning of animals. time is of the essence, for the united states has just released the clone meat and clone seed trade a few months ago. without a european position, there is a high probability that cloned meat or cloned seeds can enter the eu market unnoticed and unhindered. i can only hope that parliament will be as firm on this point as it has been over the last three years. we must not come up with unpleasant surprises at the last minute, because it seems to me as a politician that it is very difficult to explain to the voters why we are creating cloned meat on the table of our consumers without a public debate on this.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to thank all those who took part in the debate. i am very sorry that the council is not here, because i think that once again parliament has taken a very clear position on cloning and we actually think that it does not belong in this regulation, but that there should at least be an open public debate on it. i am not in favour of meat from cloned animals on my plate, but i can imagine others saying we want separate regulations. in any case, it is quite clear that we want separate regulations on this and that this should not be regulated in the regulation on novel foods. i hope that message is very clear, because we've talked here today about nanotechnology and about cloning. i have heard a lot about that, but the regulation on novel foods is about much more. it is about all those new techniques that are about to be discovered or that science is working on at the moment. we do not want to stand in the way of innovation, but we do want the consumer and the producer to know what they are up against and we want to make sure that the food that comes on our plate is also safe. i hope, therefore, that this debate on cloning will no longer stand in the way of the new food regulation and that in future developing countries who want to bring natural traditional foods onto the european market will not be deterred by this kind of confusion from trading with the european union in the case of ordinary natural products. i hope that tomorrow we in parliament will send the signal in the vote as clearly as we did in the debate today and i think that it will then be all right.
i am not going to go into the details of the situation, but i would like to say that the commission is very concerned about the situation in the netherlands. we're up 3-1, so the dutch look like they're going to make it to the final. so i'm gonna keep it a little shorter, because i want to see the end of the game. let's look at this directive. it is incredibly important for the air quality of all europeans. in that sense, i am very disappointed with the way the negotiations have proceeded. i am glad that my colleague mr davies is quoting his own member state, his own government, because it was one of the governments which continually opposed any tightening of this law. this is why, for example, three dirty coal plants in england are now causing more air pollution in the netherlands than the 11 dutch plants. it's very clear how unequal the playing field is when it comes to air quality and how we approach the industries. the netherlands, but also my colleague mr krahmer's germany, have implemented this very well and very strictly. other countries, such as italy and the united kingdom, have not done so for years. the need to tighten up this legislation is incredibly clear and it also pains me to see that italy and the united kingdom in particular have blocked improvements in the council incredibly often. nevertheless, i am in the end clearly in favour of this tightening up, because they have 12 years to go, but after that the coal-fired power stations in britain and italy, and elsewhere in europe, must also meet the strict standards, so that the health of our citizens in all the member states of europe is guaranteed. that's what it's all about, after all. so in the end we greens will vote for this legislation, but with a heavy heart because it was such a big effort. we hear so often from all the parliamentarians here that we need a level playing field, but when it comes to implementation for clean air, many member states are backing down and falling behind. this remains a shortcoming, but eventually each member state will have to comply with it. we get a level playing field, we get clean air, that's something to vote for, but the process is disappointing. some member states are disappointing, but we are making progress. i think the game is over now and the netherlands are in the final.
i am very happy to see that the dutch national team has won against uruguay in the semi-finals, and that today is a very strong signal to the rest of the world. 500 million europeans want to stop using illegally harvested wood and those who try to do so will be punished. that is a very important signal from the european union. we should not underestimate that signal. deforestation remains a major problem in the world, both legally and, above all, illegally. we are now using one of our strongest assets in a powerful way as the european union, the power of 500 million consumers. but to be honest, this signal is only really powerful thanks to the european parliament. the council wanted to discourage the use of illegal timber. the european parliament wanted to ban it, an important difference. as far as i'm concerned, a great victory for democracy. i thank the spanish presidency, and unfortunately the belgian presidency is also absent, for the work it has done to achieve a majority in the council for a ban on the import of illegal timber. i call on the council, which is unfortunately absent, to ensure that this regulation is properly enforced, because that will ultimately be the key to the success of this regulation. if it is not effectively maintained, it will unfortunately be a paper tiger. finally, mr president, i would like to thank mrs satu hassi and her predecessor, mrs lucas, for their excellent cooperation. the same goes for the shadow reporters. i think we have set an example of how we can operate as a parliament and express our democratic strength.
in writing. illegal timber and timber products from illegal logging have no place in our market. only if it is proven by credible standards that it is not "bad wood" can it be sold by me. my appeal: think beyond the environment and climate and consider countries where so-called 'legal' deforestation robs the local population of their livelihood. it's also about human rights. today the christian democrats can show what they really mean by stewardship and by love of neighbor. the ppe group wanted to weaken the protection of the local population by hiding behind the low morality of legislators in third countries who allow their own people to be exploited. this is done by facilitating large-scale deforestation or by failing to combat it effectively. last week dutch television showed how our energy companies are profiting from the extraction of coal in south africa. the spokesmen of these companies looked away; they were afraid to speak up in public. similar practices are found in the deforestation sector. we must eradicate them with every branch and root. in the absence of effective laws and moral codes, the ppe group cannot have an alibi to silence its own conscience. large-scale logging is driving people from their land. i agree with the environmental and climate goals and also advocate for the protection of human rights.
mr president, the dutch members of the epp delegation wish you every success. mr. werner langen has to beat spain tonight. he won't be able to do that. mr president, this cannot be allowed to take away from my speaking time. we wish you every success. the difficulties are well known. we've both been through tough elections. you're resigning, but you're not letting yourself get carried away. i mean, you're from west flanders, i'm from north brabant. we have sand and clay, and the sand ones last the longest. i'd like to ask you two things. - keep moving. the european union is too slow compared to brazil, china and india. more speed, but within the community method. question number two: budgetary discussions for 2011. each member state must fasten its seat belt. europe cannot spend large ships. so we better do it with the same money.
the european parliament has been very active in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be very active in this area. the alþing, the icelandic parliament, is the oldest parliament on our continent. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are properly used. the alde group therefore strongly welcomes the opening of accession negotiations with iceland. as a member of the european union, iceland can make a significant contribution to europe. but that also means, madam president, that the obligations arising from icesave, the obligations towards the united kingdom and towards the netherlands, must be respected. you know that the agreements with both countries were rejected in a referendum and that means that the icelandic government must now do everything possible to reach new arrangements with the netherlands and the united kingdom which are also being respected. the basis of european integration is the saying 'pacta sunt servanda', agreements must be respected. if that is the case, it will be the final piece of the accession negotiations with iceland and its accession to the european union. under these conditions we therefore welcome the accession negotiations.
president. - as a dutchman, i think it is of the utmost importance that we get out of the way of iceland over the debts accumulated for icesave, but that should not be an obstacle to opening the negotiations now. i therefore greatly appreciate the constructive attitude of my dutch colleagues in the european parliament. ultimately, it's a guarantee to us that iceland will pay back, just as they can become a member of the european union. there is a second aspect, and that is the whaling. europe has put whales on the list of protected species. european countries do not fish for whales. if iceland wants to join - and i hope it does - it will have to stop whaling and i think it is also up to this parliament to send that signal. let us not, at the beginning of the negotiations, bargain with the whaling industry.
the request for accession by iceland is logical and deserves our support. unlike turkey, it is located in europe and has longstanding socioeconomic, cultural and ideological links with europe. that too, unlike turkey. the accession of iceland is possible because it meets the copenhagen criteria, but more importantly it is necessary to resolve the dispute it has with the netherlands and the united kingdom over the icesave savings. that must be arranged in a timely and satisfactory manner. the negotiations on the financial chapters in the accession agreement should only be concluded once there is clarity and full agreement on the reimbursement of those funds by iceland. that is a very strong demand for me. no coin toss, and you're not allowed in.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, we thank mr preda for the good and constructive cooperation. president, in the accession negotiations it is important not to create false expectations and to mention very difficult points. we must be objective and we know that we must also adhere to the criteria. it is therefore important, mr president, that iceland complies with all the obligations arising from the acquis. i find - and so does the european commission - that iceland does not have sufficient control over the financial markets. i also note that the failure to implement the deposit guarantee scheme is causing problems with at least two member states, the netherlands and the united kingdom. the other part of the process of accession is to make commitments and to reach an agreement. the most important challenge for iceland, mr president, is that society and politics are also convinced that it wants to join, and there is still a lot of work to be done.
madam president, if you allow me, i would like to give a clarification on the ppe group’s voting list for all the supervisory package reports, which is that in the final vote on the legislative resolutions all the ppe group roll-call votes should be in favour. this is a clarification aimed at preventing any misunderstanding.
in writing. − the crisis exposed weaknesses in financial supervision. the monitoring was not effective enough. i therefore welcome the results achieved so far in the negotiations with the council. i am thinking here of the coordination between national supervisors. i agree that the first treatment is not yet completed. the agreement is imminent. the vote will take place at the next voting time. all the member states want an agreement in july. the monitoring system should then be able to come into operation at the beginning of next year. the far-reaching demands which the european parliament is still making are not feasible in the short term or desirable. the commission's proposals threaten to overburden the supervisory bodies to be set up. do not request direct supervision of individual financial institutions. let them confine themselves to the cross-border problems. the european central bank should also continue to focus on price stability. that objective must not be confused with the exercise of supervision. finally, the european parliament is reluctant to appoint and to carry out the executive functions of the institutions. the european parliament should be able to exercise independent parliamentary control over this work.
president. - this afternoon we are debating the european external action service. the pvv delegation opposes in every possible way the development of this european diplomatic service which has emerged from the terrible treaty of lisbon which the dutch people rejected by an overwhelming majority and rightly so, as it now appears. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the maastricht treaty. no one knows how it will turn out in practice, and the eu is increasingly taking power into its own hands. president, foreign policy is not a matter for the eu but for the member states, which should have full control over it. moreover, mrs ashton's schemes are going to cost the taxpayer quite a bit of money. already the budget is being seriously overrun and the lady wants a situation centre with a plane for herself including staff and several million a year in expenses. what's the point of this idiocy? the unelected euro-elite wishes to do and not do as it sees fit. the citizen stands by, looks at it, is not allowed to say anything, but must pay the staggering bill. what a democratic whistle! finally, do the citizens know what all the diplomatic doors are for? there will be a dutch embassy and consulate, plus a european diplomatic representation abroad. i very much hope that a dutch citizen in need will soon be able to find the door of the dutch embassy, because it is undoubtedly the only real service that is really useful and meaningful. mr president, leave football and diplomacy to the dutch.
president, my predecessors from the green group have already spoken about the women's aspect of the edeo and the external action service in general, and i would like to emphasize development cooperation as a european project. the rapporteur for the committee on development and cooperation, mr kaczmarek, has already said that development cooperation should not be the root of europe's success abroad. i therefore welcome the changes as they are set out in the final proposal on the external action service, with the responsibility for development cooperation remaining with commissioner piebalgs. he can ensure that there is a truly coherent policy here and we as greens will also help him to ensure that our foreign policy is primarily aimed at fighting poverty.
mr president, there are two reasons why i am against the report by mr brok and mr verhofstadt. first of all, i experience an unhealthy power craving in many of my colleagues. as long as the ep is involved, it is all right, no matter what. as if baroness aston doesn't have her hands full, we're putting a top-notch external affairs service on sale. i am beginning to suspect that you are deliberately trying to derail the high representative and her department. my second objection concerns the institutional anchoring of this service. the last few months have shown that the institutional experiment of the double-hat is not a complete success. and if that's not enough, we're bringing a few thousand diplomats into the world, all wearing double hats. what a spectacle! when will this parliament realise that exploiting the grey area between the council and the commission is not working and is only creating confusion or tension between the institutions?
mr president, in a few months a great deal has changed in the structure of the european external action service. in january, at the hearings for the new european commission, my group and i criticised the fact that the commissioner for development cooperation was to become a sort of manager for only part of the policy and without any responsibility of his own. the danger then was that we would return to subordinating development policy to geopolitical goals and commercial interests and to the cynicism with which dictators have been kept in the saddle for decades by europe at the expense of their own people. now the structure has been greatly improved. i would like to pay tribute to the rapporteurs. development policy is of course integrated into foreign policy under the supervision and coordination of catherine ashton, but with a clear responsibility for the strategy, design and financing of policy. in this way, the eu can play the role needed to combat poverty and protect the rights of citizens in developing countries. our group will be keen to see that the eu takes on that role more strongly, and this foreign service can do that.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to say to my colleague from the pvv that the dutch government has always fought for one diplomatic service in the convention. mr president, what are today's achievements? that is 75 amendments to the original council proposal. it is not an intergovernmental body, but it does use the community method. parliament has a full overview of budgets and missions. parliament is involved in policy strategies and consults with ambassadors. at least 60% of the staff shall be eu officials. national diplomats may remain in service. but, mr. chairman, the real test is coming now, and that real test is with you, lady ashton. you must make sure that you and those people can become the one voice of europe in the world.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the liberal group of this parliament believes that the western balkans are a part of europe, but this is not always an easy message to relay to voters today. however, we consider the eu to be not only a common market but most importantly a community of values. the european parliament, across the board, stands ready to work with albania towards these values, but is this extended hand reciprocated? i hope so. in recent months the chairs of the christian democrats and the social democrats in the european parliament have made great efforts to solve the political crisis in albania, through visits and through working with their sister parties. but even these high-level efforts have proven unsuccessful. in may we had the first joint parliamentary committee meeting. most of us in the european parliament began this meeting with much goodwill but by the end we were discouraged in equal measure by the way in which our counterparts from albania used the time in brussels for internal quarrels, damaging albania’s image. the joint parliamentary committee meeting underlined a few important things. the highly polarised political climate does not help the albanian people to get closer to europe. democracy means more than the result of elections, putting people into power. it means responsible representation of citizens; not the winner takes all, but seeking constructive compromise between majority and minority participation. we should have talked about the more urgent topics, such as guaranteeing press freedom and a vibrant, independent civil society, as well as safeguarding the rights of minorities such as lgbt people, people with disabilities and ethnic minorities. we should have discussed the need to end corruption and to guarantee transparency, fighting poverty and organised crime, and all this according to due process and the rule of law. the concerns about the election results also need to be addressed transparently and solved in a consensual way before the next elections take place so that albanians can move up on the democratic and european ladder.
the committee on national reconciliation in albania, which is actively fighting the blood feud, speaks of 750 children who are effectively under house arrest because of a completely out of line customary law in the kanun. the same ngo counted over 30 vendetta killings last year. the albanian government, on the other hand, gives much lower figures. in any case, a democratic state based on the rule of law, or albania's eventual accession to the european union, cannot tolerate the cruel practice of blood revenge. that brings me to two questions, commissioner. is the albanian government doing enough to combat the kanun's waste? if i speak of laundering, it is a fact that even assassins are being used to keep the bloodshed raging indefinitely. a second question: how is the commission assisting the albanian authorities in effectively curbing the bloodshed? i am thinking, for example, of the education programme, a second option which also presents a great deal of difficulty. thank you for your response.
mr president, i am a positive person. i always see the glass as half full, but when it comes to albania, it gets a little complicated sometimes. i think the european union is sending a clear signal. there will be visa liberalisation for albanian citizens wishing to travel to europe. i think that is very important, but i also hope that it will help the albanian authorities, the opposition and the government to understand that they must stop getting in each other's way. because there are a lot of things to be gained by european membership. i heard mrs. pack say it too. the citizens of albania have a great deal to gain from freedom of the press, equal treatment for women, the improvement of the position of gays and lesbians and the disabled. the european union is also taking steps to ensure that asylum seekers are accommodated in albania. the country is moving towards democracy and i hope they will accept our outstretched hand there.
i would like to thank the commission, commissioners oettinger and damanaki for their comments on this matter. indeed, we have discussed this before, but what i am particularly happy about is that the tone is different this time. in may , the tone was very much like: the situation in europe is not comparable to that in the gulf of mexico. we criticised that tone, because the situation may not be comparable, but there are a lot of oil platforms in the north sea and we are also going higher and deeper and deeper into that north sea to extract oil. that is a danger to which we must clearly be prepared and the tone of the commission is clearly different now. it speaks of a moratorium, it speaks of an auditor of auditors and it speaks of accountability for good governance. the green group supports this line, but would like to see it taken up immediately. for example, if we look at the european maritime safety agency, you say that you are going to see if we want to broaden the mandate a little bit. you did not mention your colleague, mr kallas, who is already working on this. i would say, let's make sure that agency is not just looking at tankers, but also platforms. we can do that now. it's being worked on. let's get this over with. more support for this line.
mr president, there is still a lot of criticism of the commission and the council from this parliament, but i must say that i am very impressed with the statements made by both the council and the commission. first of all, the commission. this is the commission i would like to see, strong, ambitious and leading. you even used the word moratorium. that sounds like music to our ears, but it was of course an appeal on your part to the member states to wait a little while with new approvals. my question to the council is whether it might be possible to respond to that now. and an important lesson, of course, from the oil disaster in mexico is that we need to stop endlessly searching for fossil fuels in the most impossible places. that is the most important lesson for me. a faster breakthrough to renewable energy, that's what we need. i therefore ask the commissioners, in line with the strength and ambition i have just heard, to do the same with regard to coal subsidies within our own europe. you'll be working on that internally for the next two weeks. keep going and bring the right line up.
the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the situation in the south of kyrgyzstan. can the international community, can the european union offer any prospect of a future in a social climate of impunity where, moreover, the kyrgyz and uzbeks consider themselves to be the victims par excellence of a veritable orgy of murderous violence? i received a very positive answer to this basic question yesterday morning in a telephone conversation with a western aid worker on the scene in bishkek, including a number of clear suggestions. it is of the utmost importance for the future of kyrgyzstan that a thorough independent investigation into the atrocities of the past month be conducted. the prevailing anti-culture of impunity in the country really needs to end for the sake of a reliable government there, for the sake of ethnic coexistence. i therefore welcome the european union's taking the lead in initiating an international inquiry and i understand from the high representative and the commission that they are also very much behind this. that's the basis for a new beginning: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not further complicated by the fact that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not yet resolved. as practical suggestions for european aid to the civilian population in distress in kyrgyzstan, my spokesman in bishkek underlined structural assistance to the country's food supply and education. my colleague rinaldi has already spoken about it. education is extremely important. finally, i urge the council and the commission to pay attention to the fundamental right of freedom of religion in kyrgyzstan. the 2009 religion law, another relic of the bakiyev regime, must be swiftly put on the legal pedestal. it is time for a european roadmap here too, combined with european humanitarian and educational engagement. i must congratulate both the high representative and the commissioner on this european commitment which i am pleased to see also met with gratitude on the part of the kyrgyz people. you just keep it up.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, first of all i would like to thank baroness ashton for her introduction and both my colleagues, mrs kolarska and michael cashman, for their words. i wholeheartedly subscribe to what has been said. i have to say that one of the last things that michael cashman just said – that this is a preventable disease – gets me very frustrated. with very simple means and for free – it does not cost a penny – we could prevent so many cases of hiv/aids. we could prevent so much misery. i will look at a couple of key words, starting with stigma. mrs kolarska mentioned discrimination and it was also mentioned by you, baroness ashton. even within the european union there is still stigma. look at the fact that within a number of member states, for example, homosexual people are still not allowed to donate blood. or that there are still member states which, against all the rules and all the principles that we stand for, ask people for an hiv negative declaration before they allow them to enter the country, even within the european union. those are the things that we should address when we are telling other countries in the world how to behave better. so, if we welcome the lifting of the travel ban in the us, we should apply the same principles within the european union. in addition to stigma, there is also the problem of narrow-mindedness regarding sexual morals. i am always shocked to find that there are still people in this house who feel that they cannot endorse the kind of resolution that we will be voting tomorrow because it makes reference to sexual and reproductive health rights and sexual autonomy for women. if we simply recognised those principles and notions, and if we had the support of all the members in this house, then we could already eliminate so much misery. i fail to understand how people can refuse to endorse these principles and still look people – mainly women, i have to say – in the eye who are suffering from these debilitating diseases. i think that autonomy and rights for women are something they have to come clean on. recognise the fact that women are in charge of their own bodies and that they decide – not only outside the european union, but also inside the european union. these are all things that do not cost a penny – access to medication and to adequate health services. it is basic. within the european union, we consider that a basic human right, which is also the theme of today’s debate. why, then, do we deny that right to other people or consider it a privilege or a favour? no, it is a fundamental right. in addition, if you are practical, we are in the midst of an economic crisis which hits countries outside the european union particularly. a healthy labour force is the first precondition for economic development, let us face it. let us invest in health. i would therefore like to appeal to those countries who are currently considering cuts in their budgets for development assistance and, in particular, assistance to public health. that should be one of our priorities, and we should not be talking about budget cuts. we should be talking about support to those countries, not forgetting, at the same time, to appeal to the responsibility of the national governments. in conclusion, i would urge all members of all groups across this house to endorse the resolution tomorrow.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. more countries, more priorities and less money. this means that the agricultural policy must be thoroughly revised and that it must start at the very bottom. food is the most important collective good that the agricultural sector provides us with and this production must therefore be guaranteed, especially with a view to food security for the coming decades. we also want good quality food in europe. animal welfare and the environment are also high values. for these collective goods, our farmers are not always rewarded through the market. their global competitors have none of these requirements or much less. so support is needed where the market fails. it is good that the report calls for per hectare payments. this will prevent further intensification of agriculture and make it more realistic to meet environmental requirements. farmers can be rewarded like this.
in writing. the european parliament's pvda delegation is in favour of the agreement, which will put an end to the mass transfer of european citizens' data in the foreseeable future. it is agreed that europe will develop its own system for collecting and retrieving banking data. this provides the opportunity to individualise the transfer. we keep data in our own hands and that's the best way to protect the rights of our citizens. the european commission will come forward with a proposal within a year. in three years' time, we should be able to introduce our own system. from that point on, there will be reciprocity. a european supervisor will monitor on a daily basis in the us what happens to the european banking data received. europol will be responsible for monitoring and approving the us requests. under pressure from the european parliament, the agreement already reached was reopened. we have not got our way 100%, but we have achieved that the americans cannot just snoop around in our data. the new agreement strikes a balance between protecting privacy and guaranteeing security. in the meantime, the fight against terrorism remains of the utmost importance.
in writing. - the report by mr lyon is an important report. the european commission is now aware of the european parliament's position on this matter and will take it into account when making new proposals. as far as my party is concerned, there is a cap after 2013. agriculture is important to the citizen. food security, landscape, environment, animal welfare, climate, etc. are values to which agriculture contributes to a large extent. a sound policy requires sufficient financial resources. there are (new) challenges already mentioned. the union has more member states. i therefore agree with the report calling for a similar amount for agriculture in the budget after 2013. but reforms are needed. firstly, it must be simpler, with less red tape. it will also be necessary to change from a model where not all farmers received support to one where the premium is based on area. a careful transition period is of great importance.
in writing. - the report by mr cadec comes at a good time. it comes after the consultations on the green paper on cfp reform and well before the new legislative proposals from the european commission. imports of fish farming products have increased enormously. and that's what's needed. fish consumption is still increasing in europe and this increased demand cannot be adequately met by catching more wild fish, nor by european fish farming. it is very important, however, that these imports meet the same requirements as european fishery products, and we cannot limit this to food safety alone. environmental and social conditions must also be taken into account in my view. imports are necessary. i do not want to be a protectionist in disguise, but we must avoid unfair competition. large quantities of cheap imported fish now threaten european production, both for fisheries and for fish farming. that is why i am voting in favour of this report.
author. - mr president, there are two issues here, or rather one person and one issue. it is about the human being farai maguwu, a human rights activist, who was arrested in zimbabwe and subsequently treated badly in prison. it is about the strange role played by the kimberley process monitor, which is supposed to monitor the situation in zimbabwe. he has in fact contacted the zimbabwean authorities and used information he had received from mr maguwu to bring a complex case against mr maguwu. it's also about the role of the kimberly process itself. in my previous life, i was a lobbyist for development organizations, and i was part of the negotiation to bring this system into being. it has proved to be a successful system. it has stopped or reduced the diamond-financed wars in congo, angola, sierra leone and liberia. but now we risk the kimberly system legitimizing something else, namely human rights abuses by regimes. they are not covered by this and that is why we are asking for a change. this parliament resolution says: a conflict diamond, a blood diamond is everything. all diamonds that were mined under miserable conditions. that would be a huge step forward, not only because it would allow us to denounce the situation in zimbabwe, but also the long-standing human rights violations by the angolan regime in the lunda's. so far, this has not been possible because the kimberley system is a cooperation of countries which do not like other countries to interfere in their own affairs, but this signal from the european parliament could be the first to change that.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, security and defence policy, on the situation in the democratic people's republic of korea (dprk). this is the stark conclusion of five human rights organisations in an open letter to the foreign ministers of the european union on 14 june. this shows the seriousness of the situation in the famine kingdom of kim jong il. we have no names of dissidents or activists on north korean soil. let that sink in. this is not even comparable to the former soviet union or ceausescu's romania. the open letter of 14 june urges european leaders to do much more to combat the continued violations of the fundamental rights of north korean citizens inside and outside the country. the joint resolution of the european parliament contains a number of specific recommendations on writing. - i'm going to be fine. for example, let us continue to call on china at all european political levels to fulfil its treaty responsibilities towards north korean refugees. i also wholeheartedly support paragraph 14 of the resolution. the commission is protecting the rights of north korean workers in the kaesong industrial complex by including an unequivocal clause on this crucial point in the free trade agreement with south korea. officially, madam president, north korea says it guarantees freedom of religion for its 24 million citizens. in practice, distributing bibles or holding secret prayer meetings, if discovered, means labor camps or even execution, according to the testimonies of refugees. for example, earlier this month it was revealed that son jong nam was tortured to death in a north korean prison for sharing the gospel, the good news, with his countrymen. the evidence of his crime: 20 bibles and 10 cassette tapes of hymns. the north korean authorities are apparently literally terrified of it.
mr president, what we have heard here about the functioning of the food production chain is actually lamentable. let me therefore take onions as an example, which i think sums up the essence of this debate very well. a farmer today gets 10 cents for a kilo of nettle, whereas the same nettle is sold for 1 euro in the store. between farm and supermarket, margins are skewed and power is distributed skewed. that is why this parliament called for a study of the distribution of margins as early as 2008. it is a shame, moreover, that the previous european commission refused to carry out this study. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the report by my colleague mr bové is a good report because it puts the finger on the sore spot. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i say this especially to those parties which are threatening to vote against tomorrow. for example, do they know - and i look at the liberals, i look at the conservatives - what it costs a farmer to produce a kilo of these apples. that costs 30 to 35 cents, whereas the same farmer gets 20 to 25 cents for that kilo of apples. so he pays for it, while the consumer pays 1.25 euros. again, i look at those people who want to vote against tomorrow. for example, the liberal group is always in the forefront of demands for more and more environmental and biodiversity protection and less use of plant protection products. however legitimate these demands may be, without a stable and reasonable income for the farmer, you cannot expect these investments from the producer. those who want to vote against this report tomorrow will make themselves utterly unbelievable the next time they want to raise those demands again. i hope they'll think of that tomorrow when they press that voting button.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, as europeans, we are particularly moved by the human rights situation in iran, not only because we consider the eu to be a community of values and believe in a world without the death penalty, but also because today we are all too aware of the individuals behind the numbers. at least 388 people were executed in iran in 2009 alone. these individual deaths are meant to deter a generation in their calls for freedom, but in fact they inspire a multitude more. in recent weeks, a lively discussion about human rights in iran erupted in the netherlands when a dutch-iranian citizen was imprisoned. the iranian government does not recognise the dutch citizenship of dual nationals. therefore, dutch diplomats have not been able to speak with this person, and neither have her lawyers. the dutch government engages with citizens in prisons all over the world regardless of their cases. it is a constitutional obligation to provide for the well-being of its citizens. this issue matters to all member states and should be addressed eu-wide in relation to iran, giving human rights a more prominent position on our agenda. today we are talking about people – women and individuals – whose lives are effectively over, even if they are still alive. zahra and sakineh are no exception to the thousands of prisoners in iran who are less known and who may feel as though their voices are not heard. the iranian government should realise that tough language, military technology or resilience in times of sanctions will not end the country’s self-isolation or move it forward. rather, the legitimacy derived from providing for the well-being of citizens earns respect and credibility in the international community. justice and security are actually two sides of the same coin. there cannot be impunity for people who hang children, who systematically censor and rape, and who stone women. when addressing iran, let us revive the human rights dialogue so that the eu sends a strong signal, besides that of the euro and of sanctions, and engages iran on its most sensitive and our most fundamental point – human rights and fundamental freedoms – and attaches consequences to their abuse.
the tone of the contributions made this morning by the group leaders is very different, but one thing is clear, namely that many of the policies announced by the european commission can count on broad support in this house, because we stand together for the community method. we shall have to have many discussions about the content. i would like to ask for special attention this morning to the young, to our children. because they must be well equipped to earn our prosperity in the future, so that there are good public services in the future and the growing number of elderly people can continue to enjoy their pensions. that's why we have to solve the huge public debt now and take painful measures to do so. that is why we cannot accept a youth unemployment rate of 20%. this percentage is now in the 2020 strategy targets, but that means that disadvantaged children and children from minority groups are left out. the council is therefore faced with the challenge of encouraging young people to participate, in line with parliament's ambition: but 10% youth unemployment and 90% of young people who are either employed or in school. it is a very important objective for our european union to achieve this by 2020.
mr president, in europe we have an internal market which is a great success. one of the main reasons for that is that the commission is very tough in enforcing the market rules. i wish, however, that the commission were equally tough when it comes to enforcing fundamental rights in europe. (applause) that is why, commissioner, my group insisted so much on having a special european commissioner for fundamental rights. that is you. and we expect you to stand up, not for european governments, but for european citizens, and if you do not like what you see, then you should not close your eyes to what is happening in europe, you should act. we do not want words in this chamber, not from mr barroso, not from you. we could do without this debate if we were sure that the european commission would enforce the rules – not only rules on immigration and free movement but fundamental rights as well – because that is the only way that we can make the european union a community of values that is as successful as the internal market. (applause)
mr president, almost every speaker has said that the law should be applied equally throughout the european union, and the commission has said that france still has a number of questions to answer in the case of the expulsion of the roma. my question to the commission is: the commission has not yet submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. when does the commission say: "now you must give a clear answer"? and then in the sequel: when can the commission take a clear position? then there is the question of the large amount of funds being spent on roma integration. the commissioner for social affairs has given a number of examples, and one of the examples he gave was, as i understand it, a successful dialogue with the roma in hungary. i think that dialogue does not have to cost so much. what better example of successful integration projects can there be than the dialogue that has begun in hungary?
madam president, the eu is taking its fair share of the aid, but those commitments, eur 230 million from the eu and the member states, must now be fulfilled. pakistan must not be the victim of an unspoken mistrust. humanitarian aid is a duty, independent of politics, without discrimination. the eu is one of the main donors. it is therefore essential that we coordinate our efforts. question to commissioner georgieva: where can we improve our coordination? what does it take? what do you need to do that? the population must have access to and maintain clean drinking water, medical care and food. as long as the threat of new flooding persists, reconstruction of the affected areas will be difficult. as soon as possible, the international community must help the pakistani government and people to mitigate the long-term effects of this disaster, and if that requires more budget, we must find the space for that.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the water crisis. i call on the european union, the member states and the international community to support pakistan and not to abandon it to the whims of the taliban. as a christian, i also feel connected to the pakistani christians. i have heard from organizations like open doors international and compass direct news that in several areas christians are discriminated against in the distribution of food and medical aid. i am shocked by this report and i would ask the commissioner to pay attention to it. the report also calls for the immediate release of all prisoners and for the immediate release of all prisoners of conscience. i would ask the commissioner to pay particular attention to this. and also to support the pakistani government, because the pakistani government must protect domestic and foreign aid workers, and discrimination in aid delivery must never occur. i would also like to hear the commissioner's reaction to this.
madam president, a large group of people in this parliament have worked extremely hard on this report. we have compromised and broadly agreed on five priorities to improve the commission text: better governance, good work and equal pay for equal work, sub-targets for vulnerable groups, gender equality and cohesion policy. all our hard work will have been vain, though, if the council decides to simply disregard it. they can if they choose to. mr chastel, i would like to ask you whether you will do your very best for our priorities. also i would like to know whether it is true that our priorities stand a better chance of being adopted in the recitals, as mrs milquet has indicated. this is vital to know for our vote tomorrow. of my colleagues i want to ask that we all stick to our compromises. we are no match for council if we stand divided. the greens will certainly stand by our commitment, and we count on all of you to do the same.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have now finally set ourselves concrete goals and we must continue to pursue them in the years to come. the problems we face are not easy. everything must be done to ensure a lasting recovery. we must take account of demographic changes. to emerge stronger from the crisis and to make european labour markets more resilient, new challenges will have to be addressed. i therefore believe that the attention we give to education is of the utmost importance because only then can we expand opportunities for all. the emphasis on combating poverty, and in particular child poverty, is also of great importance. we have made concrete recommendations in the committee on social affairs and employment in a good consensus with this report, and i think that is very important. and also because we're gonna have to start taking each other out on those recommendations. this means not only that we are working at european level, but also that the public authorities in the member states are working together with the social partners to achieve these goals. mr president, a long time ago i had the idea that we should prevent young people from finding a place on the labour market. it just can't be. the good thing about this report is that it advocates that every young person who is not in school should have a study, a training place or something else within four months.
on behalf of the green group, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr de gucht, for his report and for the work he has done in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. we europeans should point the finger at italy and its prime minister berlusconi, or is this a national matter that the rest of europe should not interfere with? in july, the press freedom representative of the organization for freedom and cooperation in europe, the osce, published her report. she was the one who dared to point the finger. the osce is going around europe and pointing us to the following countries. the murder of greek blogger socrates giolias, the murder of latvian journalist grigorijs nemcovs, the new media law in hungary that undermines the autonomy of public television stations and shrinks the supply of media. the presidential surveillance of french public broadcasters by president sarkozy. i just heard about romania and then of course the latest developments in italy where a law makes it impossible for investigative journalists to print phone records. turkey, serbia, albania, bosnia and herzegovina, countries which are looking to join the european union, are also receiving reprimands from the osce. and rightly so. but for these countries there is still a stick behind the door. the membership of the european union. our copenhagen criteria include "freedom of the press". the accession countries are thus put on a scale and it is painful to see that the european council does not consider that scale to apply to itself. italy would indeed, if the greens had their way, lose its voting rights in the council of ministers as long as it continues to repress journalists and as long as everything is in the hands of one businessman and prime minister. but then back to the media concentration. we know how much the commercial media and the public media in italy are in the same hands. but let us not forget that there is axel springer, bertelsmann, rupert murdoch, and in the netherlands and belgium, christian van thillo who does own a lot of newspapers. the free press is crucial to our democracy and it is up to the european commission to make us a proposal against media concentration, precisely because we must take the osce seriously.
the freedom of expression is under great pressure in europe and in the netherlands. under pressure from the multiculturalist elite, people are persecuted who point out, quite rightly, the dangers of religions and ideologies. criticism of religions and ideologies is always legitimate. the fact that one chooses to believe something is a personal, voluntary choice that should not be a burden to others. you're not born into a faith or an ideology, but you embrace it because you think it's your truth. but that's a personal truth, one you should keep to yourself and not bother others with. the moment that truth pretends to be an all-embracing truth, which also wants to change the law of the state, the criminal law, the civil law and so on, it becomes life-threatening. criticism of one's ideology or beliefs must be completely free from persecution in any form. individual decisions, individual experiences, must not be above the law. to offend or to hurt is a right that everyone possesses. that is not always pleasant for the recipient, but it is the basis of freedom of expression, because caresses and praises do not need protection. hurt and insult is allowed. the truth isn't always fun. freedom of speech was ultimately created as a protection of the citizen against tyrannical rulers who oppressed their citizens. the function of this freedom is to criticize and correct the ruling power. it is the ability of the ordinary citizen to express himself in the face of a social elite that wants to impose its explicit norms and values on citizens. in the netherlands, politicians, cartoonists and columnists are arrested, questioned or prosecuted precisely because they exercise this right, the right to express their opinion. the most important example of this is the political miscarriage of justice against my party leader geert wilders. it is being persecuted because we, the freedom party, are right to point out the dangers of political ideology, islam. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the middle east. he threatens and intimidates anyone who criticizes the socially disruptive nature of islam. the fight for freedom of expression is far from over. the remnants of the tyrannical princes were still all over europe. the freedom party would like to see some kind of first amendment in europe. what is the commission's view on this? i would like to hear from mrs kroes.
madam president, thank you, commissioner, for your introduction. i know your personal commitment to freedom and democracy, so i am sure that our press freedom is in good hands with you. however, you say that the european commission has no general powers to protect freedom of the press, but i would say that that is a rather narrow interpretation of your powers, because first of all, protecting democracy and freedom and civil liberties is enshrined in the treaties, and you are the custodian of the treaties. secondly, if we as a european union demand from candidate member states that they meet certain standards, then we may assume that the commission will protect those standards within the european union as well. another element is that media ownership is increasingly a cross-border issue, and we could even imagine that there are non-eu companies who own european media. would you still say that if, for example, russian or chinese owners interfere with european media, it is not our business? i do not think so. the second issue at stake here is whether we should name and shame, whether we should single out individual member states. yes, i think we should. it may be unpleasant, and i would certainly not like my member state to be criticised, but if we are no longer capable of self-criticism, then how can we protect fundamental rights? i would like to remind mr busuttil, my esteemed colleague, that this parliament, in a previous mandate, adopted a resolution on the berlusconi government and freedom of the media that went way beyond the one that was rejected last year. so we do have a precedent. this house has repeatedly called for legislation – specific legislation – to give the european commission the tools to intervene and protect freedom throughout the european union.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. we have recently used the possibility of registering our partnership in the netherlands. that means that in the netherlands we get exactly the same rights as married heterosexual couples. we could have also chosen marriage, because in the netherlands marriage is open to same-sex couples. now, let's say i decide to go to work in poland and my partner comes with me. in that case, we will no longer be considered a couple, because poland does not yet recognize same-sex partnerships. in other words, by making use of the eu right of free movement of workers, we lose a number of essential rights, for example in the field of social security or pensions. so while married heterosexual couples retain their status, same-sex couples do not. the right to free movement is thereby restricted. as gue/ngl we do not advocate that the commission should come forward with proposals for the harmonization of family law in this area. that remains a matter for the member states. but we do ask the commission to come up with proposals to ensure that the rights enjoyed by workers under the free movement of persons, or by the selfemployed, are the same for everyone. the commission seems at present to be hesitant, to say the least, to develop proposals in this direction. that is why i and other colleagues have asked for the debate to be held this evening. i very much hope that the commissioner can promise that this will be done quickly and that, for example, in the area of social security and pensions, the rights of couples who move to another member state will be the same, regardless of whether it is same-sex couples or heterosexual couples.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the needs of its citizens. it is unacceptable that a large group of people should be excluded from this basic value. people who are married or in a same-sex partnership, but whose relationship is not recognised in some eu countries. this is not a technical problem. it touches the most important things in a person's life. can i take my sweetheart with me when i go to work in another country, and my children? my love will get a pension or a benefit if i suddenly go out of business. and it goes beyond that. mrs. reding, imagine you've been happily married to a woman for years. you're going to italy or greece together because you found your life's work there. for a few years, everything goes very well, but then fate strikes. your beloved partner gets in a car accident and ends up in intensive care. then it is only possible that you cannot make decisions about your life partner, that you cannot even be with her to hold her hand, because for italy you are nothing, you have nothing to do with her. i am very pleased, mr president, that more and more countries are opening up marriage or partnership to same-sex couples, and tens of thousands of people have already taken advantage of this. their numbers are growing. unfortunately, a number of member states are lagging behind. i am sorry, but we cannot force this from parliament. what we can ask for is recognition, so that the free movement of eu citizens is really possible for everyone in the eu. i would like to hear from mrs reding how she intends to achieve this with us.
author. − madam president, commissioner, just a couple of days ago i was watching a documentary on bbc world about some countries in the caucasus where it is customary for men to ride out and steal a bride. when their eye catches a nice girl they abduct her, take her home, rape her and then she is the man's wife. of course the families of the girls vigorously protest against this, because they feel it is not up to the men to decide to take the girl – it is up to her father to decide to give her away. it was a heartbreaking documentary. it was shocking, and why? because we feel that the choice of a partner, the choice of a husband or a wife is the most personal and intimate choice you can make in life. it is not for the man, not for your father, not for your brother – and certainly not for the state – to determine who will or will not be your partner. we have seen in history, and we still see today, countries where the state bans marriage between black and white people. in my country, not very long ago – this was something my grandparents were confronted with – catholics were not allowed to marry protestants even if they loved each other. there are still conservative muslims who feel their daughters should not marry non-muslims. there are many examples like that and we feel that is very shocking. but we still have countries in the european union that ban marriage between consenting adults of the same sex. i know that for some people it is very shocking that people of the same sex can love each other, but that is not really relevant. what is relevant here is that every single eu citizen should have the same rights. it is not for the european union or for the member state governments to judge a personal relationship. the european union has no competence in family law, but as michael cashman has just pointed out there are five countries already which have opened their marriage laws to same-sex couples. there are a number of other countries which have some form of recognised partnership. the very least we should be doing in the european union is apply the principle of mutual recognition. we do it for jam and wine and beer: why do we not do it for marriage and for relationships? i would like to ask the commission to take the initiative for mutual recognition between those member states which already have marriage or some form of registered partnership and give us a road map on how we will get to a situation where those relationships will be recognised everywhere.
president, cohabitation contracts and marriages of same-sex partners are not legally recognised in all host member states. this leads to multiple discrimination in family matters such as guardianship and inheritance, but also in tax matters and social rights, as if marriages and partnerships were less real or less important in this case. the proposed action plan in the stockholm programme does not include any proposal to solve this. there are no specific and concrete new initiatives for lgbt rights. but you have just said some fine words, because you said you were going to take action. i'm very happy about that. you spoke of concrete steps, well, concrete steps, and that it had to be very cautious, very careful to deal with certain member states that were having problems. my question is, firstly, will this happen during your term of office? my second question is, do these kinds of difficult situations also apply to other forms of discrimination, such as race, disability, age? i think that courage is necessary on all grounds, because all grounds are equal and discrimination on all grounds must be fought properly at the same time. let me make a suggestion. you said that you expected a report from the fundamental rights agency in november, including on discrimination in the field of homophobia. i would ask you to report to parliament on the basis of this report, which is supposed to give a reality check of the situation, on how you assess the situation and what concrete action you intend to take, preferably in giant steps.
madam president, very briefly, i would like to put a question to my italian colleague – i apologise for not knowing his name – who asked that other member states accept the sensitivities of his country. this debate is not about accepting the sensitivities of other countries, it is about accepting laws of other countries. and i would like to ask that colleague if he is willing to recognise the laws of other eu member states?
on behalf of the ppe group president, on behalf of the epp group, i would like to say that we are very pleased with the agreement reached on european banking supervision. that's a major milestone. a number of member states initially put their backs into the sand, but our rapporteurs stood their ground and thanks to a strong commissioner and a decisive belgian presidency we were able to achieve this result. the introduction of the european semester is another good result. both are important steps to strengthen economic governance in europe. you also discussed in ecofin the various forms of bank taxation, since banks have to share in the costs of a crisis. you are right to try to do so in the g20, but progress is slow. the epp therefore agrees with the conclusion that if this does not succeed internationally, we in europe can take the lead, no, we must take the lead, in introducing a bank tax, a bank levy. but it must be done in a coordinated way, because member states are already introducing such a levy and that is a threat to our internal market. so, commissioner barnier, i would encourage you to make generous use of your right of initiative to get a coordinated banking levy introduced in europe according to the same criteria, and as with european supervision, you will find this parliament at your side. as regards the financial transaction tax, that is an issue which you should work very hard to get on the agenda in the g20 much more forcefully. i would like to warn against a europe of the single market. i know that mr schulz wants to introduce such a transaction tax in europe, but the disadvantages outweigh the benefits, because it is a global system. transactions will bypass europe as a whole. that 's why: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european banking system.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i want to be clear that indeed it is permissible to defend yourself; other countries are able to defend themselves; so arms exports are not off-limits. that is the position of the alde group. however, we should not export to regions of tension or of war. we should limit ourselves, and if we do not have a real, legally-binding regime on arms exports, it means that the 27 countries of the european union will not have a level playing field. they will compete and fight for orders and there will be no real consultation. so i think that the only way to resolve this issue is to have a binding common regime and i also support the words of my colleague mr brok on this matter.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. and in more ways than one. in a nutshell: we are discussing an ongoing israeli legal procedure aimed at maximising financial transparency for israeli ngos, on the basis of outdated parliamentary questions. please note that the defeated bill carefully balances the right of organizations to operate freely in a democracy against the right of israeli citizens to know the financiers of the activities of said ngos. transparency has been the european political motto for years. what is the harm in applying this principle, so often stated, to a situation in which the european union and its member states are giving substantial sums to israeli ngos? if this house turns against it, it will be the end of me, of my own house and of the jewish state. with such a politically suspect attitude you are certainly alienating the right-thinking citizen, say taxpayer, of europe.
mr president, my dear colleague mr de rossa has just mentioned that there has been a debate on this defeated bill and that changes have been made. the debate is still ongoing. i was informed of this as the chairman of the israeli delegation this week, but what struck me - and i have a question about that - is that you say that these changes have been brought about by external pressure. are you saying that our colleagues in the knesset cannot think differently, as the chairman of the committee suggested, and that private donors should be included in the transparency law? that's the opposite of outside pressure, right? in other words, do you think that only outside pressure can bring israeli knesset members to their senses? i find that very biased.
i am surprised to learn, mr president, that the israeli authorities have tried to keep this particular subject off the european agenda. i always assume that if you believe in your own legislation, you are not afraid of debate, and that debate can also create a climate in which the ngos - because that was the point - can flourish equally in israel and debate can only remove anxiety. mr president, i am pleased to note that a great deal has happened between the oral question put by heidi hautala on 27 april and the debate we are having today. i can see from the ambassador's letter and the translation of the bill that there are important changes. i'm glad you did. what i am concerned about is the enforcement of the new legislation and whether there can be selective enforcement of that legislation. i believe that transparent ngos are an essential part of any democracy, and it must therefore be important, also for israel, that such organisations are not unreasonably impeded in their activities. i ask mr füle: are there guarantees that all ngos in israel will be treated equally and that this new legislation will not lead to restrictive measures for ngos that are wholly or partly funded from abroad? thirdly, on transparency, which is used as an argument - absolutely a good one - but what i do not understand is why private donations are excluded from this legislation. i think that's a very important omission. i would like to add that the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. this signal was then actually downplayed by the commission. for two and a half years now, and again on 7 july, this parliament - and we are here on behalf of the european citizen - has overwhelmingly supported my call for a ban on cloned meat. so it is not about what the commissioner is now proposing, namely that the citizen can only recognise it when it is on the board. now clone meat has finally entered that food chain. i do not hear the commissioner say anything about how he is going to prevent that from now on and all i hear is that we have to wait again until sometime in november. i'm sick of waiting around. commissioner dalli, i have a question for you too: i am sure you will not be fooled by commissioner de gucht's behind-the-scenes announcement that the ban on cloning animals in the food chain, which parliament has called for, will lead to a trade war with the united states, brazil and argentina. i'd rather have a trade war than a war that's gonna cause unnecessary bloodshed. cloning is unethical and very, very animal-friendly. cloning results in animals being born dead on a large scale or having to be killed because they are deformed. while the commission waits, unclear regulations are causing this practice to penetrate the european union. the commission must legislate immediately and lift the moratorium on products from cloned animals and their offspring, which parliament has called for, today. finally, i would like to call on commissioner de gucht to stop playing the puppy dog of the united states and the biotechnology industry based there. that commissioner has been appointed in the general interest of the european union and its citizens and as a member of the commission he should not take instructions from any government, institution, body or agency, and i am simply quoting the treaty on european union. is europe really so far gone that it is allowing the repercussions of the world trade organisation to influence our policies to the detriment of our citizens? if so, i am ashamed of the state of the european union at this moment.
the commission has already taken the initiative of the european parliament's committee on agriculture and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection to discuss the future of the potato starch sector in europe. a future which has been so threatened by the financial crisis that this sector may be in danger of disappearing completely from our continent. and this while the sector can play an important role in the long term in achieving our own eu 2020 objective. as you know, commissioner, under the health check, payments to this sector have been partly linked and partly disconnected. this situation will end in 2012 with full decoupling. let me be clear: i am in favour of this process, but in the present situation it requires the right approach. in order to survive and compete with other starch sectors, the potato starch sector will have to tap into new markets after full decoupling and the potential for doing so is great, especially in the bio-based economy, which is one of the key priorities of the european union's 2020 strategy. think of plastic made from potato starch instead of oil, or think of chemical elements for industry. however, the financial crisis has jeopardised preparations for this transition and for the opening up of these new markets, as investment and innovation have unfortunately been forced to stand still. in 2012, the sector is therefore facing a hard landing, with research suggesting that 40% of the market in the european union could be lost. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we will not only see this in my region, in the north of the netherlands, but we will also see it in countries such as denmark, germany, poland and france. that is why we are sounding the alarm tonight, commissioner, and asking the commission to ensure that the sector makes a soft landing rather than a hard landing. so my questions are: is the european commission prepared to introduce temporary measures, for example for a two-year period and budget-neutral, using unused potato starch funds or agricultural resources? for example, is the european commission prepared to set up a voluntary restructuring fund to support producers who voluntarily reduce their production? in conclusion, commissioner, and this is of course the main question behind this whole debate: does the european commission share our view that the potato starch sector can play an important role in a bio-based economy and that it is therefore worthwhile to help this sector temporarily and budget-neutral to make this transition?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's agricultural policy is not undermined by the current crisis. in the north of the netherlands alone, thousands of jobs are at stake, in an economically vulnerable area with few other major employers. these are all people, in groningen and elsewhere, who want to live and work in their own region. a balanced distribution of work across all european regions is important, including the prosperous north-west europe. so we need a transitional arrangement. it is the eu's responsibility to ensure that. it doesn't have to cost extra. there is money left over from subsidies in recent years in the sector because the harvest was bad. the agricultural budget can also be adjusted. of course, the potato starch subsidy scheme must end in 2012. no one doubts that, and the industry agrees. but there must be a future for this industry because it is close to home in our countryside, finding new alternatives to petroleum products and therefore becoming indispensable.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. unfortunately, this has not been the case in the potato milk sector. if the plans are carried out in the present situation, a lot of companies will go bankrupt because prices are too low. the big question is: is that worth the price? i don't think he did. i think that the potato sector in europe is a special sector. great progress has been made in the field of biochemistry. all kinds of new products are being developed and i think we should not interrupt that process. the commission's answers do not give me much optimism. i would ask the commission to look at the situation again and to start an intensive dialogue with the sector. i think that the soft landing which has been requested by many others will have to happen, because i think that the potato sector as a special sector must survive. i think that the commission will therefore have to take special measures.
- a writer. president. - i would like to say three things. first of all, mr kelly and his warmth about the potato. we're talking about a little bit different potatoes than the potatoes on your plate, but we're talking about starch potatoes. but the problems are related, because at the moment when the starch potato sector collapses, there is more production in the potato sector, the consumer potato sector, and that creates problems for that market. second point: the commissioner says every time: it is not working, but there are proposals from the potato starch sector to find a solution. our signal is: i would ask you to look at this with a neutral attitude, because it is not helpful to refer every time - whatever the commissioner does - to the situation after 2013 - the debate is about after 2013. then it's too late. this industry is in danger of collapsing in 2012. in 2012 and 2013 we need a transitional measure so that the sector can return to normal with the regular agricultural policy which will come back in 2014. that is my heartfelt appeal to the commissioner.
president barnier, commissioner, you have just said that when you took office you said that you would give the single market a more social face. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. but now for the real thing. yesterday, during the demonstration of hundreds of postmen outside the building, a female dutch postman told me that she is 55 years old, has only worked for the post office for 20 years and therefore expects to be one of the first to be fired by tnt-post next year. and she's not alone. at tnt-post in the netherlands all the postmen are being laid off, and that only because tnt is now dealing with competitors, notably its own subsidiary, where temporary flex workers deliver the mail for much lower salaries. we are talking about 15,000 redundancies of professionals, of postmen who are reliable and who handle our mail in this way and who have often done this work for decades. why, commissioner, have you never had the social consequences of the liberalization of the postal market investigated? or rather, why are you withholding from the european parliament the study which you have already funded and which we can read on the internet at pique.at. for everyone who sends or receives mail, liberalization is taking a dramatic turn. in the netherlands you see that mail is being delivered by different companies several times a day or in the middle of the night and on some days not at all, the closure of post offices, of all post offices, and the latest idea that is being developed within your services, within that group of regulators that you mentioned but that you have not consulted parliament about, to introduce extra high tariffs for people who live on islands or in the mountains. commissioner, can you now finally send us a full study of all the consequences of liberalization for post offices and for the service as such, and can you immediately put forward a proposal to postpone the date of entry into force of liberalization, a moratorium, until we have that data. that would give the single market a social face.
in writing. - the vvd minority voted in favour of resolution b7-0504/2010 on the expulsion of the roma. this is without prejudice to the fact that, in accordance with the directives, in individual cases, people can always be forcibly returned to their country of origin if they are eligible for this in accordance with the provisions of these european directives.
author. − madam president, kenya, as well as other african countries, is an essential partner of the eu in a number of key areas such as security, development and trade. africa played a crucial role in the establishment of the icc and its commitment to the court’s statute is also reinforced in article 4 of the constitutive act of the african union. the cotonou agreement between the eu and kenya lays down the conditions for partnership, and in this agreement conditionality on trade and aid in terms of adhering to democratic and human rights standards are clearly spelled out. unfortunately, on 27 august, omar al-bashir visited kenya as an official guest of the government, a dignitary. this happened during the period of an arrest warrant brought against al-bashir for his alleged role in the genocide in darfur in sudan. al-bashir can still defend his case before the icc, but first needs to be brought to the hague. kenya had the obligation to arrest him while he was on its soil and failed to do so. this is a serious problem. it is a signal that the government does not play a credible role in adhering to agreements it has itself signed up to, and this should be a serious problem for the eu. we have to make sure that we adhere to our own standards in fighting impunity, and we need to fight impunity in africa to create more stability and democracy. i would like to ask the high representative to take serious diplomatic action against kenya and to remind its leaders of their commitment to the rome statute.
- a writer. - madam president, there is little reason to believe in progress. the horrors of war and persecution in the 20th century also force modesty in this century. but there is one area in which i think we can make progress, and that is international criminal law. it started with the yugoslav tribunal, the rwanda tribunal, and it led to the international criminal court. no law, spoken by victors of a war as could be said of nuremberg, but by an independent international court. the most serious crimes can be tried there if the state in which they are committed does not itself prosecute them, whether intentionally or not. it is in this way that the world's sense of justice can be restored after great atrocities, that justice can be done to victims and that reconciliation can be achieved. peace to the world. this court is a deterrent to future war criminals. impunity is a license for new violence and cannot and should not exist, especially for the immense atrocities of which omar al-bashir is accused. kenya has signed the rome statute. pacta sunt servanda, treaties must be respected or they will be eroded and therefore it is intolerable that al-bashir was allowed to celebrate democracy in kenya unhindered, while in sudan, in his own country, he has allowed such gross violations of human rights to be committed. let this be an appeal, as mr vergiat has done, to the countries which have not yet signed the rome statute. the united states first. what is barack obama waiting for? strengthening the international criminal court brings closer the world order we want, an order which does not leave war crimes unpunished, an order which brings closer peace and which is based on the rights of people everywhere in the world.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, syria is a key player in the middle east. last year, when i visited damascus, i was struck by the potential of the ambitious young syrian generation. a change towards more openness and adherence to fundamental rights is necessary for the progress of the country itself and its connections to the international community. in his inaugural speech, president al-assad spoke of creative thinking, transparency and democracy. however, syria’s prisons quickly filled again with political prisoners, journalists and human rights activists, such as recently when two leading human rights lawyers, haythan al-maleh and muhammad al-hasani were sentenced for criticising syria’s human rights record. writer ali abdullah also remains in prison, after already having completed his sentence. there is no freedom of expression, including on the internet. there is a very big and painful gap between al-assad’s self-proclaimed ambitions and the reality of achieving democracy. this is not serving the country well – and especially not the younger generation. the eu should use all the necessary means available to push syria in the right direction and to have it improve its human rights record.
on behalf of the group of the european right i shall begin with a point of order. our shadow reporter, mrs foster, has just informed me that she cannot be here. she's arriving later tonight, so i'd like to take her time. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur very much for her excellent work. this regulation, and the quality of this regulation, is good for air traffic in europe and will improve air safety. but if we really want to learn from accidents, then the investigation must be completely free from interference, from interference in the airlines by consumer organizations, but above all from interference by judicial authorities. if public authorities can interfere with independent research, then that research is at risk in terms of independence. it is the butcher who has the final say in the selection of his own meat, and that should not be our aim. it would have been better if we had introduced the so-called canadian model. then there is a fully independent investigative authority which, on the basis of objective criteria, invites the judiciary to join the investigation if there is a crime. we have that system in the netherlands, and there is an excellent functioning independent research council. the council of inquiry also regularly gives the public authorities a very clear lesson. that is the best system and now the text we have agreed with the council provides the opportunity to introduce such an independent inquiry. but the package is a real step forward. the information system for passengers involved in accidents in particular has improved considerably, and that is why we will not abstain tomorrow, but support the rapporteur and vote in favour.
for the greens/efa group it is true that a humane asylum policy entails a policy of expulsion. when you're processed, you have to go somewhere else. but that's a little different from juggling people. and somehow europe has figured out that if a person cannot be deported to the country he or she came from, we just take the nearest country or the country that someone traveled through before they arrived in europe. that's what i call juggling people. it's gotten to the point where we're trying to stop people in libya. and we say: we wash our hands of innocence if libya wants to send people back to eritrea. people from other countries - and this is afghans being deported to pakistan - we are obviously trying to get off our game. i heard a colleague from the christian democrats say: "how do we make these readmission agreements more attractive to those other countries?" that doesn't seem like a humane way to treat people! it is not the way to achieve a good european asylum policy. and that is what we are all for. the fact that we are sending them to a country like turkey, for example, where a lot of asylum seekers are travelling, means that these people cannot start a new life because they are not in the place where they want to be and are not in the place where they are welcome. and there's no money to pay for that.
the united left group is opposed to the proposed readmission agreement with pakistan. it's the wrong instrument at the wrong time. according to the united nations, pakistan's infrastructure - and you have to think of roads, railways, bridges - has been so badly affected by the floods that it is back to where it was decades ago. millions of people in pakistan have fled the water or returned to find that nothing of what they once owned is left. and you would say that in these circumstances, europe is primarily concerned with helping people. i am therefore disappointed to see that we must decide at this very moment on a return and readmission agreement which should lead to europe being able to send back illegal and rejected asylum seekers to pakistan. is this an example of the community of values that the european union is boasting about? the agreement also contains insufficient guarantees on human rights. pakistan is not a stable country at the moment. my question to the commission and indeed to the council is therefore: what is your basis for confidence that pakistan, which has not ratified the geneva convention but is hosting a large number of refugees, will actually provide protection for refugees in the present circumstances? you would expect the agreement to include safeguards that would do justice to the responsibilities you take on as a state when you deport someone to another country. the only thing we have really heard about this is that the european commission will ensure that the member states comply with their obligations under the european convention on human rights and the geneva convention. but my question to the commissioner is: how will the commission do that? do you send officials to pakistan when people are put on a plane and how long will you continue to monitor the fate of such people? or do we not get a report from you until it's too late for those people? the agreement contains too few guarantees and comes at the wrong time. my group therefore says: get it off!
the floods in pakistan are the worst in 80 years and there seems to be no end in sight. millions of people have been affected. there are many homeless and there is a threat of famine. are we going to send people back on the same plane as the one we use to send humanitarian aid to pakistan? an agreement between the european union and the islamic republic of pakistan is irresponsible. we cannot turn a blind eye to the human rights situation in pakistan. this one leaves a lot to be desired. pakistan has not even signed the geneva convention on refugees. we must conclude agreements on good terms, such as demanding the signature of the geneva convention or other agreements protecting fundamental rights. i am therefore very interested in the agreements which the european union is negotiating with other countries. it is important that we have an understanding of this so that we can see to it that good agreements are made. what about the takeover agreement with turkey, for example? the negotiations are reportedly almost complete. the final text still faces some resistance from some member states. can the commissioner indicate where the negotiations are stalled? what is the european commission doing to bring this to a successful conclusion? and will the commission, when the agreement is concluded, finally take the next step? will it finally be possible for turkish businessmen and students to travel to europe without a visa? it is unheard of for the european union to have a visa-free policy with the most diverse countries, but not with one of its candidate countries.
mr president, we have before us the report on free trade and economic relations with turkey. since the establishment of the customs union with turkey in 1996, trade between turkey and european countries has grown considerably. the freedom party sees free trade as a good thing and we support the proposals to remove technical barriers to trade and bureaucratic barriers. free trade is in everyone's interest, both for european countries and for turkey. at the same time, it should be made clear that cooperation with turkey should be limited to trade relations. the freedom party is against turkey's accession to the european union. europe can trade with the whole world, with countries like america, israel, japan, etc., but that does not mean that these countries must also become members of the european union. free trade with turkey should not be seen as a stepping stone to turkish membership of the european union. turkey is a trading partner of the european union, and the freedom party has no objection to that. but deep european integration or turkey's membership of the european union is not.
as turkey's rapporteur for parliament, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this report on the clarity of his proposals. i agree with him. the customs union has brought a lot of benefits to turkish and european businesses. but, as the commissioner has also said, this customs union is not yet complete and is also far from perfect in a number of respects. the opportunities and challenges for our trade relations with turkey are clear. the remaining trade and technical barriers must be removed quickly and further harmonization will also be possible as we move forward with the acquis. what we must do above all is also to fight against counterfeit products, because that is what is causing so many european brand manufacturers so much trouble. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is not the commission's intention to take action in this area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the social economy. if we want the social economy, at least we have made some progress. the energy. we have common interests in that respect. so we have to go for it. then there's the visa traffic. i have too often seen people in turkey have problems because they are treated differently and i will bring one more case to the commissioner's attention. the full application of the additional protocol to the association agreement remains crucial for turkey. if it were to be ratified, a huge obstacle to further trade relations would be removed and both turkey and europe could benefit from it. it is good that we have this report now and we will bring up all the political questions and answers again in the next report that the committee on foreign affairs is going to make.
- i'm the reporter. − with this own-initiative report, the european parliament is sounding the alarm about our biodiversity, our species richness and our ecosystems. species are dying off faster than ever before: 30% of amphibians, over 40% of mammals, birds, butterflies and reptiles and over 50% of freshwater fish are threatened with extinction. that is unacceptable, of course, not only from a purely biological or ecological point of view. i also believe that we have a moral duty to leave the earth in such a state for our children and grandchildren that they can do something with it. finally, it is also in our economic interest to invest in biodiversity. healthy ecosystems provide things like clean water, carbon sequestration, better harvests and more raw materials, and so on. the degradation of these ecosystems costs us 50 billion euros a year worldwide, and that bill is only going up. we, the european union and the member states, have failed miserably in this area. our goal of halting the decline in biodiversity by 2010 is far from achieved. the key question now is how we will achieve the new target we have set for 2020. first of all, of course, this is a matter of political will, but we also make a number of concrete suggestions in my report. for example, the spirit of the box must be ended. environmental policy and budgetary policy are too much on their own right now. that has to change into an integrated approach. biodiversity is not just a matter of european nature policy, but should also be part of other policy areas such as fisheries, agriculture, regional policy and so on. the first steps have been taken, i am aware of that, but we must continue along this road. the reform of the common agricultural policy, for example, offers opportunities for this, for example through the reimbursement of social services or compensation for farmers who produce sustainably in or near natural areas. secondly, create win-win situations where economy and ecology can go hand in hand: this is also an opportunity for european green jobs. another point is to make natura 2000 sites more cooperative and interconnected. there is no longer any cross-border approach, and animals and plants do not respect national borders. and we ask the commission for more leadership and more clarity. the differences between member states in the implementation of natura 2000, for example, are very great. overall, we support the european commission's proposals and ambition to halt the loss of biodiversity by 2020. that is the absolute minimum level of ambition. but restoring biodiversity must also be part of our ambition. and of course, attention to biodiversity needs to be stepped up at the international level. to that end, europe must speak loudly and clearly and with one voice at the nagoya summit next month. however, in the case of new plans, impact assessments are of great importance, both for the ecological and for the socioeconomic consequences, not as a delaying technique, not as an excuse, but to create clarity. finally, we also call on the european commission to adopt new policies, for example on invasive alien species. the protection of one species may require the active management of another. without tackling the gray squirrel, the native red squirrel in britain has little chance of survival. and the extermination of thousands of wild hamsters in southern limburg proves ineffective when a single fox eats 300 a year. in short, ambition and realism are what we are expected to do in the years ahead. finally, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for the good cooperation which has led to the unanimous adoption of this report in the committee on the environment, just as i would like to thank commissioner potočnik, who cannot be here today because he is in new york for the biodiversity. but i trust that mr de gucht, who has had the opportunity to hear this contribution in his native language, will give a true and fair account of it to his colleague.
i would also like to thank the rapporteur for her work on this report, which has a sad reason: the failure of our own european biodiversity strategy. this strategy, adopted in 2000, should have halted the loss of biodiversity. not only did it not work, it was a colossal failure. we have not even managed to slow down the rate of decline. we human locusts continue to devour our planet, and our hunger seems insatiable. - is nothing being done? of course you are. natura 2000 is a major success story in many member states. there have been some results, but they are far too few. this is evident from the steadily growing list of endangered species. there are many fine statements, for example from the european council. i am sure that tomorrow at the united nations general assembly another will be added. but when it comes down to it, you look the other way. if it hurts and if there are really choices to be made, then the interests of the fishermen are suddenly greater than the survival of many species of fish, then the farmer may expand at the expense of a vulnerable natural area, then the timber industry is more important than the preservation of a forest. authoritative studies tell us that these wrong choices cost 7% of annual gross national product in the long run: that's 14 billion euros, that's 12 zeros, every year! a bigger stick behind the door is hard to imagine. the next few months will give us a chance to show that we mean business. and not even when it comes to the new biodiversity strategy. no, when the new agricultural policy is adopted, when the new fisheries policy is adopted, when new trade agreements are concluded. it is in other areas that the fate of our animals and plants is decided. let those same ministers who make such fine statements at such moments keep their backs straight and show courage by making the right choices. otherwise the new biodiversity strategy will be just as much a paper tiger as the previous one. and one thing i know for sure: paper tigers will never go extinct unlike the real tiger. man is producing more than enough of them!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. biodiversity in europe and the world is declining. that is very worrying. biodiversity is the heart of god's creation and the natural capital of this world. biodiversity is the basis of our food and the raw materials we use and ensures a stable climate. so it's time to stop talking, here too, and really get together and take action. the commission, the member states and this parliament must speak with one voice to achieve the ambitious 2020 target of halting biodiversity loss plus a global vision that ensures ecosystems are protected, valued and restored.
i would like to thank mrs de lange, the president-in-office, for her report on european biodiversity. europe is not doing enough to halt the loss of biodiversity. that is a serious matter which deserves attention and rightly so, as the rapporteur, mr de lange, has said. as a parliament we support the commission in its efforts to halt the loss of biodiversity by at least 2020. but that does mean something, because otherwise we will have to conclude again in 2020 that the objective has not been achieved. that means a different agricultural policy, a different way of spending money on our fisheries policy, a different infrastructure policy and a different way of regional development. all these matters will be dealt with in the financial perspective for the coming period and i assume that mr de lange and mr van dalen, who have spoken such fine words about biodiversity, will also give substance to those words when we talk about the financial perspective. the point is that we as europe really need to strengthen our biodiversity policy and protect it. otherwise, this is just another empty shell.
- i'm the reporter. - mr president, i would like to thank the members for their contributions from all angles. all these contributions show the importance of an integrated approach or mainstreaming. i am glad that the commissioner has indicated that he intends to take this into account and put a strong emphasis on it in his strategy. i hope that strategy will provide the clarity we need, for example, when it comes to the great differences between member states, as mr seeber has pointed out. mainstreaming the issue. the agricultural policy has been said. a sector which manages more than 50% of the landscape has a role to play in finding a solution to this challenge. fisheries and structural policy have also been mentioned, and to quote mr eickhout: yes, of course, this mainstreaming also concerns funding. and then i don't really care much about where the funding comes from or what the name of the thing is, but whether it's effective. whereas in the past we have managed to kill one fly in one fell swoop, namely to achieve one policy objective with one financial expenditure, in the future we will have to kill many more, namely three flies in one fell swoop. expenditure in this area should not only achieve the policy objectives in this sub-area, but also in another sub-area, preferably a third: win-win situations, that's what it's all about, including financial. the importance of an international approach and success in nagoya next month has been highlighted. then one more thing about soil. mr perello rodriguez said that a uniform approach to soil policy in europe is of great importance. that is the last thing we should do, since the soil is totally different throughout europe. he's welcome to come and look at my home, ten feet below sea level. i think the soil problem is very different there from the iberian peninsula. the report stresses the importance of soil policy, calls on the member states to assume their responsibilities, but i think it is very dangerous to lose unity in this area. and a final point, we have only been talking about government intervention, government tasks and government financing. but we have not talked about corporate social responsibility, and we need that in this discussion. because only if a consumer is willing to pay a fair price for goods produced in a sustainable and fair way will there be any progress in this discussion.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for the way in which we have worked together. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the end, this led to a very diffuse and emotional debate, which i also had to face within my group. we have finally tabled an alternative resolution as a middle way between those in favour of the report and those against it. i hope that this resolution will be adopted tomorrow, but it is a pity that the debate has taken so long and that there is still no solution. we all want more renovation, we all want more e-commerce, we all want a single market and then we do not want protection of intellectual property rights, which is the basis of our innovation. i am very sorry about that and i would therefore urge everyone to vote the right way tomorrow. and that is perhaps the alternative alde resolution. we need a european approach and i also call on commissioner barnier to come up with proposals for a legal framework within the european union for intellectual property rights, because we have a huge need for multi-territorial licences, for example. that is not possible at the moment and hinders the development of the internal market.
for the epp group the chinese market is attractive to european businesses. at the same time, a jungle of regulations, often modified or applied retroactively, is blocking european firms' access to this attractive market. the position paper of the european chamber of commerce in beijing, which was published at the beginning of september - and has just been published - makes this clear in its 647 pages, with 380 recommendations to the chinese government. i therefore expect the council and the commission to place this crucial document for the essential improvement of european-chinese relations high on the agenda of the forthcoming mutual summit. the european chamber of commerce of the council and the commission rightly calls for a clear european voice which effectively represents and defends the interests of european companies in the middle east.
president. - i call mr seligman to speak on behalf of the group of the european people's party. during dictator kim jong-il's recent visit to china, chinese president hu jintao declared his intention to increase trade with north korea. this is a matter of serious concern to my group. china is keeping north korea on its toes and we want the inhumane regime to be removed as soon as possible. there are very frightened north koreans, mostly christians, currently living as refugees in china. as soon as they are discovered by the chinese police, they are immediately sent back to north korea and put into labor camps, and there are many children among them. while north korea conducts nuclear tests and starves its own people, the country is supported politically by china. i would like to know from the commission whether the european union should have trade relations with a china which is so contemptuous of human rights and does not stop sending north korean refugees back. i also urge that north korea be placed high on the political agenda in the forthcoming negotiations.
rapporteur. − mr president, i just want to ask you to take the final vote – the vote on the resolution as a whole – as a roll-call vote.
rapporteur. − yes, mr president, and it has been discussed with the shadow rapporteurs as well.
rapporteur. − mr president, with all due respect we have had this procedure before. we can ask for a roll-call vote during the vote and if 40 members oppose it, we will not take the roll-call vote, but until now i have only seen one.
i voted in favour of the kazak report because it improves economic and trade relations with turkey. it strengthens the neighbourhood between the european union and turkey. that's exactly what it takes, but that's all it takes. i abstained on amendment no 1 by the epp group. i am with them against turkish accession to the european union, but that was not the subject of the kazak report. that is why i abstained on that amendment, and before the report, because we must ultimately build a good neighbourhood with turkey.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because in general i can support it. in particular, i was happy to note that in committee most of my amendments were adopted. this way, smes will be supported in order to become more active players on the e-commerce market. at the same time, in my opinion the report unnecessarily brings up the issue of postal liberalisation to which i have objected in committee. i maintain this objection and continue to object to the call for liberalisation while firmly restating my call to the commission for a moratorium on postal services liberalisation.
first of all, i would like to thank the commissioner for his answer to our question. the aim was to review our policy, which we had already defined, with the new treaty in hand. it is true that regional policy is shaped in all its aspects close to the citizens in their own circumstances. secondly, territorial cohesion is indeed that new dimension, as we have reported. territorial cohesion also has everything to do with how you deal with very different situations in a country like france or spain. it's not always more and more specific money. no, it is a clear move towards greater cohesion and balance within the national states. and then when we look at the new financial framework, the new policy framework after 2013, we see the spearheads, the added value of europe. in that context, it is good to do so today. i'm a little hesitant to say that more money needs to come in, i think that's too soon. it is a specific policy, but it is also possible to achieve this by means of a rearrangement within the national member states, for example. and the epp group, on whose behalf i am speaking, will also be calling for a split vote tomorrow. whether we will decide to have our own financial and legal framework remains to be seen. after all, i'm dutch. we have no mountains and no sparsely populated areas, but we do have islands. may i ask the commissioner the following question: now that we have had changes in the kingdom and the islands of saba, st eustatius and bonaire have been given their own position in the netherlands, can these islands now also be declared ultraperipheral regions? we've been looking forward to this for a long time.
president. - mr president, two weeks ago this house adopted a ridiculous resolution, accusing france of everything and condemning it in advance. it was a curious situation, in which the european parliament sat in the judge's chair. then commissioner reding came up with her world war ii comparison, even before the facts were known. there is something profoundly wrong with the european union if the legislative and supervisory powers set aside the judiciary and start judging without knowing the facts. the party for freedom had hoped that the european institutions would have responded to the expulsions with a little more legal and democratic sense. what ultimately lies at the heart of the matter is the legal question: to what extent can eu member states expel eu citizens? and the institutional question is: who's supposed to be guarding that? the question of the guardian of the treaty has been raised by the commission, but it is a matter for the local courts and, ultimately, for the european court of justice, the community court. the roma who were voluntarily expelled with 300 euros in their pockets can therefore simply go to court. and until then, the european parliament and the commission should simply not interfere. the legal question is not about deportation or expulsion, but about the question of how far hospitality goes, how far you have to accept that someone comes into your home, breaks the place down and takes your belongings. it is absurd that there are apparently no clear rules on how to deal with eu citizens who misbehave in another eu member state. the answer to that is: of course, eu citizens who are unemployed, wasteful of benefits and criminal should be able to be expelled directly from the member state. i hope the council will take note of this, because the european commission and parliament are not serving the people and therefore they do not have to rely on them.
president van rompuy, you have the great task of making the european council rise above the jungle of national interests, above the jungle of the interests of the large member states and of our common interest in the council. because that's the only thing that can get us out of this economic crisis. you are working hard - and that is an important point - to strengthen economic governance in europe. you are on the right track, because a year ago it was unthinkable that the council would jointly support a european semester, not only to strengthen the stability and growth pact but also to strengthen competitiveness. i hope that you will receive a lot of support next week, because the european commission will be making full use of its right of initiative. this is important, because it must be more ambitious when it comes to sanctions, but also - and i think this is almost even more important - when it comes to how the council ultimately deals with the european commission's recommendations on the various national plans. if these plans are not sufficient and the european commission comes with recommendations, is the council prepared to accept them one by one? even if they're recommendations directed at paris or london? that is important, because it is what has destroyed the stability and growth pact. i am therefore looking forward to your reflections on this point, because in the end the council will have to agree to the commission's independent role in this case.
president, 2010 is the 50th anniversary of congolese independence. looking back, we see that these last fifty years have been profoundly stained with blood to this day. the horrendous events of this summer in the north kivu region are further proof of this. when you read that 25 soldiers from the un mission should have prevented this, it also indicates the problem of logistics. 20,000 un troops, where professionals and experts say that at least 60,000 are needed to maintain some measure of order, what a problem! i would ask the council and the commission the following question: what efforts have been made by the eusec and eupol missions in north and south kivu to increase the security of the civilian population and to prosecute the perpetrators of the atrocities of this summer? the riots are taking place where the congo's greatest riches are. according to recent sources, congolese mines have a potential of $24 billion. a press release from the congolese government in early september reported that mining operations in kivu were immediately halted because armed groups sometimes illegally mine with the help of governments. on the surface, a good start, but how is it maintained? however, there are also rumors that the congolese government is expropriating mining projects from foreign investors and then selling them to foreign relations of that same government! my questions to the council: what influence can the eu missions present have on the reduction of illegal mining? and can you confirm the mining moratorium and how can it be maintained, possibly with the help of eu missions on the ground? i very much hope that the european union will work to strengthen the much needed un mission there, because it is really necessary. and if i am not mistaken and if i read the press reports, the congolese government is working to put an end to that and that would be quite dramatic for the country.
president. - the misery we are witnessing in eastern congo is also our own fault as europeans. the reason why there is still a lot of money to be made by rebels from rare metals, like coltan for the telephone industry and the computer industry, is because we still buy it indiscriminately. the european countries have never had the need or the room for a law denouncing chain responsibility. and what's so special about this moment is that ultimately the united states did. we did not do anything because we were afraid of china and the united states in our competition. and what do we see this past summer? a law in the united states that requires transparency, that requires that we report when we have rare metals from the congo or the surrounding countries. and the hewlett packards and the ibms of this world have to adapt. we should take that law as an example and make our own version.
president, in eastern congo rape has become a common weapon of war with thousands of victims every year. there are many more than we know, because the women cannot get their due and so often keep silent about what happened. it is a highly traumatic crime, leading to deep psychological and often physical wounds. if rape goes unpunished, it becomes a permanent part of a violent daily life in society, even after wartime. the mass rapes that took place between 30 july and 4 august 2010 in north kivu show that the international community is not paying enough attention to the development in congo. but these crimes must not go unpunished, and we owe that to the victims and to the future of the drc as a whole. the congolese government must do everything possible to bring the perpetrators to justice and there is no reason to doubt that. but we cannot allow impunity to become the norm. this drama also makes painfully clear that there is much wrong with the relationship between the un mission and the local population. it is of great importance to evaluate the presence of monusco in the region. he was passive in this drama. there must now be an independent investigation into the motives behind these mass rapes. the presence of the mission is and remains necessary, but it is essential that monusco fulfils its full mandate and provides the desperately needed protection to the local population.
mr president, it is really unspeakably sad that the gravest crimes against humanity took place under the eye of the international community and the un. we, here in the eu, need to step up our efforts and work together more effectively to make sure that the un acts in line with the fundamental values that we know here in the eu. we need to think more strategically. as unspeakably sad as these crimes may be, we cannot respond with silence. we have to step up our own responsibility and efforts to ensure that there will be no more victims to mourn. we have to help the african institutions to find their own solutions and to take responsibility for fighting corruption and ending impunity. to do this we have tools, which have been mentioned: the cotonou agreement and also the icc. the trade in blood diamonds and minerals has to end. it fosters the incredible violence that is perpetrated by the various militias in african countries. rape as a war crime is only one of the horrible crimes being perpetrated. we have to respond by acting vigorously and making sure that we do not remain silent in the face of these atrocious crimes.
president. - mr brok, i would like to say again that we are very much attached to good relations with the united states. europe has cooperation with the united states in many areas, and we can be proud of that. second point: i would like to add my support to all the other speakers and to all the questions that have been asked, but i cannot add much to that. it is important that the commission and, if necessary, the council respond to these questions quickly. we do regret that this unilateral action by the american government has taken place and you could well start a discussion about whether it is about the 14 dollars. whether tourists pay for that visa or for a coca-cola in washington, it doesn't really matter, but the point is that europe is being treated a little bit differently here. lots of talk about swift and so on, and then this unilateral action. the commission must make clear today what it has done. the announcement of a policy study nowadays does not impress the european parliament. we just want to know what you said to the american government and whether you were unable to stop it. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the middle east, but that we should be concerned about the situation in the middle east. and the question of the method of payment has already been raised, but you should not ask that if you do not want this charge.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, we worked together swiftly and intensively in parliament and with the commission in 2005 and 2006 to achieve the objective of the neighbourhood policy, including the objective of crossborder cooperation for the citizens living in the areas concerned. and we had to be very creative and stay very close to the people. we felt that the position of people living on the external borders should not be worse than that of citizens living on the internal borders. we had years of experience in interreg programmes before that and we had high expectations. parliament's involvement is still as strong as ever. but it takes a few years to get going, and that's what happened here. article 30 of the enpi regulation requires the commission to present an evaluation by 31 december 2010 and to propose adjustments, etc. i'd like to know if you're on track. will you comply with the regulation on this point as well? when will we get that conscious evaluation, as we agreed? the second point concerns the answer to the questions on crossborder cooperation. the questions are meant to catch up, whatever we're doing. i am very pleased with your efforts and your answers on cooperation in the baltic sea and on the spain-morocco programme. but what is the image now? our regional policy committee has already produced an interim report in mid-2009. it also suggests ways of getting closer to the people, more decentralized, a better balance between the input of money, planning, bureaucracy on the one hand and what the people get out of it on the other. the report shows that this balance has not been fully achieved. we have been stuck in generalities for a long time and have only started concrete projects late. so my question is: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. my idea is to hold a hearing in parliament, in line with the way we often work in this parliament - we have a study - with the people concerned from the border regions, perhaps a working group of the border regions in europe, the people living in the areas and their representatives. we can thus have a debate, not on guidelines or objectives, but on the practical evaluation of how contacts have been established, for example between universities, between hospitals, schools, in the field of the environment and water, etc. this could lead to a real debate - of which we are only giving a small start today - on the new programming period and on the crucial question of what resources are needed. this is my objective and i would like to invite my colleagues to join us in this debate today, to improve the whole and to be visible to the people in the border regions. i thank the commissioner very much for his answers.
president, commissioner, in the last change of government in ukraine and kiev i have noticed and watched closely that there is an increasing strengthening of the russian and ukrainian secret services, and even an intertwining of the two. ukraine is between the european union and russia. the history of russia's strong influence in ukraine is obvious, but when you see this kind of development, i wonder - and i ask you - whether the european neighbourhood policy is not facing a major problem here with this strengthening of russian influence in ukraine and kiev. this is certainly true of the more pro-western forces in ukraine.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the epp always welcomes good and thorough discussions on social topics during our plenary sittings, but they have to be well prepared. that was the reason why it was initially decided by a majority decision in the conference of presidents that the proposal from the social democratic group to discuss services of general interest in the lisbon agenda and public services in the lisbon treaty be discussed first in the committee on employment and social affairs. we are in favour of this because it is a very complicated topic. i understand that the title has changed and that the liberals have changed their position, but the substance is still very complicated and we still want this to be discussed first in the committee on employment, because it is a very important and complicated discussion. we do not want to oppose it, but this is the reason why we will abstain in the vote on this topic.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, it gives me great pride that the european union, as a community of values where the death penalty is abolished, is strongly committed to act as a global player on the abolition of the death penalty everywhere. in negotiations with candidate member states and in our dialogues with other countries, whether it is the united states or whether it is iran, we consistently push for the abolition, de jure or de facto, of this most inhumane punishment. the impact of the death penalty in preventing crime is not even proven. therefore, its practice is even more contested. while there should not be impunity for the most serious crimes, the death penalty in and of itself constitutes a human rights violation according to the right to life, as declared in the universal declaration of human rights. we believe in prosecuting crimes under international law, but always under fair trial and with due process. too often this is not the case and, in any case, the united nations has established that drug-related crimes do not qualify as the most serious crimes. the united nations has also spoken out in favour of a moratorium on the death penalty, and this is an important statement. at the same time, the un is struggling for its credibility when iran is among the members of the women’s rights council. the eu should still speak with one voice and operate more strategically when it comes to addressing important human rights topics, such as the abolition of the death penalty. today, the china-eu cultural summit is taking place here in brussels as we speak. this important step should be applauded, but at the same time we cannot overlook the fact that china holds the record for the highest number of death penalties, the true number of which we do not even know, due to a lack of transparency and the fact that certain people are qualified as non-people. china is beaten only by iran when it comes to the execution of juveniles, and killing children cannot be justified under any circumstances. a celebration of culture reminds us of the essential freedom of expression, but too many people across the world are subject to the death penalty and a fear thereof as a result of the words that they have expressed. the eu should also step up its responsibilities in providing shelter for people from countries that practise the death penalty. the shelter cities programme should become operational as soon as possible.
mr president, of course the conditions in the gulf of mexico are not comparable to those in our waters, but i am very glad that the european union has taken the opportunity to challenge its own regulations. because it's a much-needed thing. for me, there are two very important parts. first, the checks. several colleagues have spoken about this. these checks are essential. i think that responsibility is even more important, and i must say that i was rather shocked to see that responsibility is not well organised in our european waters either. why is that liability so important? if we manage this properly, it will be the last straw for the oil companies to take a lot of measures to reduce the risks themselves. that's why i think it's important. for that reason, i am very much in favour of not granting new licences until that liability has been settled.
president. - i am addressing myself to my colleagues stevenson and reul, who say that the environment committee has acted too quickly. let us face it, this disaster happened five months ago and it is not too soon to come from europe with a resolution. as the environment committee, we've been working on this for a long time. i would also like to thank the commission very much, because it has acted proactively and has admitted that the legislation on liability is not clear, and that there are simply gaps between european legislation and national legislation. that kind of thing isn't handled properly. until we know if that's been properly handled, we should just stop any new deep-sea drilling. that's not a kind of stop for the whole sector, that's just for new deep-sea drilling. that's not an overreaction, that's a very calm reaction. we also know that there is an ongoing investigation in the gulf of mexico into what went wrong. that needs to be cleared up, and until then: i've never seen anything like it.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial contribution to the european union. if we do it smartly, we will be able to agree on measures that will not only safeguard biodiversity but also counter the effects of climate change, help achieve the millennium development goals - we have already said a few things about this - and create green jobs, including in the european union. four birds with one stone, that's what i call value for money. but to achieve this, the european union must speak with one voice. i must tell you that i am a little bit discouraged about that. i hear a lot of references to council decisions of previous years, to decisions of march this year, and i hear very little concrete. i hope that the thinking in the commission and in the council has now moved beyond the general discussions of 15 march. we 'll see on october 14th; i hope so. i also hope that we learn from our past mistakes. we should not go to another international summit with a mandate full of vagueness and generalities, and we should not spend all our time there as the european union in consulting with each other to see how we should respond to developments, leaving us no time to play the leadership role that karin kadenbach, among others, has already called for. the last point i would like to make is the mainstreaming of biodiversity into other policy areas. just as we as the european parliament called for such coherence in the field of environment and other policies in the recent report on biodiversity in the european union, we must also mainstream biodiversity internationally. biodiversity is not just an environmental issue or a millennium development goal issue, but in other areas, such as the wto, non-trade considerations such as biodiversity need to be much higher on the agenda. commissioner, i know you have a warm heart for biodiversity. i hope you will pass on this message of international mainstreaming to your other international colleagues.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, as we discuss the european position at the nagoya summit, outside this house a hunt is being undertaken: a relentless hunt for resources, a hunt for oil and gas, minerals, timber, food and water, a hunt for resources that are all provided by nature. in this hunt, chinese investors want to construct a highway through the serengeti national park to exploit the resources of central africa. there are saudi investors putting billions of dollars on the table to build 6 000 kilometres of roads through the rainforests of the congo to start huge palm-oil plants. we all want to stop the loss of biodiversity, but in the real world this hunt for resources is frustrating our goals. that is reality. therefore, the only way to stop the loss of biodiversity is by radically changing our behaviour. we need biodiversity for food, shelter, medicines, clean air, water, and so on and so forth. we simply cannot survive without it. we are reaching a tipping point at which damage is irreversible and, even worse, accelerating. that is the sense of urgency of the nagoya summit and that is the sense of urgency i expect from the ministers and commissioners who attend. unfortunately, political declarations and resolutions will not be sufficient to reach this sense of urgency. we need much more pressure. for that reason i have started an online campaign, along with many colleagues from all over the world. i want all of the people to have their voice heard on this issue; because people care about this. go through facebook to stop biodiversity loss and support this campaign. i will, together with many colleagues, present the thousands of signatures to the decision-makers in nagoya, to let them know that people depend on their perseverance and persistence to make nagoya a success.
in two weeks' time, mr president, we shall all be going to nagoya, japan, to talk about biodiversity. i wonder if our host will be serving us bluefin tuna or whale there. but the big debate there will again be about whether we should come up with money first or whether we should talk about objectives first. developing countries prefer to see money on the table first and the eu prefers to talk about objectives first. but it is clear that we must stop the loss of biodiversity in any case. if we don't act, the estimated cost will be over four trillion dollars by 2050. so, inaction is not an option, and that is why i am disturbed that the new dutch government wants to cut one billion euros in development aid, one of the most necessary financial resources to combat biodiversity loss in developing countries. if the eu really wants to achieve anything in nagoya, it must take the lead and develop good policies on agriculture and fisheries itself, and not come up with proposals on these matters after nagoya. the reform of the agricultural policy must go beyond a sustainable agricultural policy and must be a strong one. i therefore call on the commission to translate what is agreed in nagoya into measurable, verifiable proposals and to develop a long-term vision so that in 2011 we do not have to say again that we have not been able to halt the loss of biodiversity.
president. - i should like to begin by thanking commissioner potočnik for his commitment to the conservation of biodiversity. we know his heart is in the right place and he's fighting hard for it. in this sense, the european commitment to nagoya looks good. but we still have to agree on objectives, objectives in sub-areas such as fisheries, agriculture, forestry. we are still waiting for ambitious targets in all these areas, including from europe. but more importantly, when we come back from nagoya, we must translate this into european policy. we shall be reviewing our agricultural policy next year. we're going to review our fisheries policy. i know from the commissioner that he is also working to ensure that the term biodiversity is clearly reflected in that policy. but the council is silent. that is why i ask the president, mrs schauvliege, what the council is going to do next. we can make some fine promises in nagoya, but what are we going to do about our own fisheries policy and our own agricultural policy? then it becomes really important, otherwise it's just empty words in nagoya.
mr president, tomorrow we shall be voting on the motion for a resolution for the nagoya conference, and i should like to draw attention to amendment no 1 in this speech. that amendment was tabled by mr de lange and myself on behalf of both our groups. in the amendment we reaffirm the principle that life forms and life processes should not be patentable. that is why we are asking in the amendment for a breeder's exemption which will allow plant varieties to be developed freely. without such an exemption, we risk that only the companies with the most money and the largest patent portfolio will survive. they will then decide which species are to be placed on the market, and that is certainly not in the interests of biodiversity. so i would urge you to support amendment no 1 when we vote tomorrow.
i am very confident that tomorrow a large majority of this parliament will vote in favour of visa-free travel for bosnia-herzegovina and albania. you're right to be. they have worked very hard to meet these criteria, despite all the political convulsions. they have gone further than serbia and macedonia when they were granted visa exemption. so i am not worried about our parliament. we have said that criteria are criteria and as soon as a country meets them, we will grant it visa-free travel. that's important for young people, for business people, for all people. i'm worried about the council of ministers. there are rumors that some countries are having doubts. i hope these rumors are unfounded. if the council does not decide quickly on visa-free travel, it would send the wrong message. we measure with two measures. criteria don't really count, because everything depends on political games. and the council does not trust the commission's judgment. so where does that leave us? it's actually very simple. the commission has indicated that bosnia and herzegovina and albania fulfil the criteria. the european parliament and the council of ministers must therefore give it as soon as possible. they may have their own opinions about the commission and the politicians in these countries, but this is about the people who live there.
president. - the freedom party is opposed to the exemption of bosnia-herzegovina and albania from the visa requirement, two countries which are members and observers of the organisation of the islamic conference. this is an organization which sees sharia as the basis of human rights and which holds the united nations hostage with blatant anti-semitism. how on earth can symbolic gifts be handed out to countries that claim that sharia is the basis of human rights? sharia law is a law that controls every detail of life in an islamic society, from civil and family law to criminal law. it determines how one should eat, how one should dress, and even how one should use the toilet. oppressing women is good, drinking alcohol is bad. i can't reach it. can anyone explain to me how this law can exist alongside the fundamental and human rights that this european union so cherishes? the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the manufacture of certain products. they are shielded by statements like "yes, then they can visit family or study abroad". that's a load of crap, because you can. they just need to get a piece of paper to make that happen. it is a total travesty to grant visa exemptions because they are otherwise locked up in their pathetic little countries, total nonsense! the dutch cities are already populated by hordes of poles, romanians and bulgarians, to the point of madness. this visa waiver is only gonna make that worse. interest and curiosity. (the president declared his readiness to answer a 'blue card' question under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
i would like to ask mr van der stoep a question. you mentioned that these are countries that have the sharia as the basis for human rights. can you indicate at what point there were proposals in the parliaments of bosnia or albania to introduce sharia law, and on what dates this happened? you're making an assumption that can't be substantiated. i hope you can do that, but let me know.
the president, mrs bozkurt, knows that i do not know what is going on in bosnia and albania, and i am not really interested in that. i would remind her that the cairo declaration says literally that the sharia is the basis of human rights and that both bosnia and albania are part of it. and can you explain to me what's not a problem there? sharia as the basis for human rights, then you're out of your mind, aren't you? that's all i can make of it.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, tanja fajon. in bosnia-herzegovina people feel as though they are trapped in a cage after the war in the 1990s. now, finally, the door will open for them to get out. tomorrow is the day when the european parliament can give a clear sign that the people of bosnia-herzegovina and albania are welcome visitors in europe. the european commission concluded that both countries have fulfilled the benchmarks for visa liberalisation. the reforms are of importance for those countries but also for the eu. significant progress has been made in securing the borders and improving cooperation in combating cross-border crime – like human trafficking and drug trafficking – and it will be possible to return persons who are illegally staying on european soil. the experience of visa liberalisation showed that leaders in bosnia-herzegovina were willing and able to agree to process the required reforms quickly. the cooperation and effectiveness of these reforms will, hopefully, serve as an example for further reforms needed for eu integration, but it is also of huge importance for people who will finally be able to visit their families, especially with regard to the wide diaspora that bosnia-herzegovina has in europe. it is also essential for young people and students to envisage their european future. they will have the chance to look over the walls of their own country. hopefully, they will tell their new leaders that eu integration should be high on the agenda. the last thing we want is a black hole in europe. the european commission – and we in parliament – want to lift this isolation. we promised the countries visa liberalisation when they fulfilled the criteria. with the commission’s and the european parliament’s consent, two thirds of the european institutions will recognise their effort and progress. i want to see the council also fulfilling its promise so that, finally, bosnian and albanian people will see that there is light at the end of the long tunnel.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i agree with much of what has been said by the previous speakers. i welcome the commissioner’s statement because, if i listen carefully, the commission is actually open to the parliament’s request, which was included in last year’s report on competition policy, for a more sophisticated toolkit with regard to antitrust policies. the focus has been very much on fines and the size of the fines, but we should be careful that this does not turn into an ideological debate. this is very much about having a toolkit which is an effective deterrent to anti-competitive practices. as you rightly pointed out, the damage to our economy and also to consumers is considerable. i think that fines should be reasonable but, if companies are complaining about fines, then the one thing they should not do is engage in cartels. that is the best guarantee that they will not face excessive fines. last year we asked for proposals by the commission for more sophisticated instruments. we asked you to come forward with proposals that would cover issues like individual responsibility (which you mentioned), transparency and accountability of firms, shorter procedures, the right to defence and due process, and mechanisms to ensure the effective operation of leniency applications, but also corporate compliance programmes and the development of european standards. i would like to know if the commission intends to come forward with such proposals. we realise that this is very complicated, as we are looking at national competences and eu competences. but i think we share the common objective of making the market function properly.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, both commissioners, it is a pleasure to have you here. it also shows that you want to work together within the overall objective of social, economic and territorial cohesion. i have also read the letter you wrote to mr barroso on cohesion in an integrated structure and i trust that you will continue to hold this position. this way you can sort more effect than with opt-out and with a separate operation of the different funds. thank you, sir. new times, hard times, new policy. i'm not going to say anything. we are now seeing this in the commission in connection with eu-2020. cohesion is of paramount importance in this context. the european added value we are looking for in the debate on the future is precisely in the implementation and is important for 2014-2020. what's the point? no blank sections on the european support card. objective 2 must be maintained because this objective is also very clear. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the regional development fund and the social fund must continue to work together in this area. the second point. the horizontal, integrated nature of the funds across the whole spectrum of eu-2020 is important. the 'over-marking' introduced by mrs hübner at the time for the lisbon strategy has worked. the lisbon strategy has worked particularly in regions and cities, bringing europe closer together. european cooperation within and between member states promotes balanced territorial development in europe and creates opportunities for all regions. finally, of course, we have to improve things. there is a need for greater synergy between the rural development fund, the social fund, the regional fund and the r&d funds. it can, and it leads to better results. i have one final question to the two commissioners: do you want to introduce the territorial pact in the run-up to the spring summit as an opportunity to increase the involvement of regions and cities? there is a proposal from the committee of the regions, and i recommend that you add to what we have now in our resolution.
mr president, paragraph 7 calls for a review of the eu’s capacity for immediate response to accidents and for a european action plan. in the second part of that paragraph there is a specific reference to the arctic zone. the oral amendment is in addition to that second part and reads, ‘moreover notes that the mediterranean, baltic and north sea area has to be taken into consideration’.
mr president, before we take the final vote – and although i am very happy with the fact that we adopted amendment 1 – i think that ms bélier of the greens is right. in fact, you called out to vote on the original paragraph. on the screens we then saw that we voted on amendment 1. to be fair to the greens, i think we should take the vote on amendment 1 again. if amendment 1 is adopted, the original paragraph falls.
mr president, mr mathieu proposed that the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2008 should not be discharged for the time being, and my group, the pvv, was of course quite right in doing so. the police academy file reads like a straight-up hercule poirot thriller. poor management, a fraud-prone accounting system, a whole host of financial irregularities and highly creative budgetary management, misuse of funds, and so on. in fact, it was so bad that it eventually led to the intervention of the eu's anti-fraud agency, olaf. it is good that there are investigations and that fraud is being fought. but wouldn't it have been much better to prevent fraud from the start? how could this happen? why was there apparently too little control? this is another example of the citizen standing by and shaking his head. on behalf of the dutch people, i expressly request that this whole european police puppetry be abolished as soon as possible and that the real police work be left to the national hercule poirots.
mr president, in this debate, which is mainly concerned with the supervision and organisation of the european external action service, we must not lose sight of the general interest of that service. because that interest is very, very large. it could prove to be one of the greatest steps towards a truly european foreign policy. even in my own country, which is unfortunately becoming more and more inward-looking, the new governmental agreement transfers tasks to this new european external action service. i am sure that the council will be able to give its opinion on this matter in due course. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. only with sufficient transparency and financial accountability will this service be able to operate to its full potential. i am therefore very pleased that the institutions have reached an agreement to get things under way. that was in danger, because we as a parliament had put forward very detailed demands. we liberals have also been somewhat opposed to this. i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their work. there is a good package, and my group will support it fully. i hope that this will allow the service to start very quickly after the vote tomorrow.
mr president, what a sad and dramatic day. we are discussing the funding of mrs ashton's new european external action service. the dutchman, however, was never allowed to speak on the treaty of lisbon and now this service, which is costing millions, is being thrown down our throats. it's an insult to democracy. the edeo alone is going to cost us millions of extra euros for the rest of this year and again next year. the political hobby of the eurocrats may cost something, but it also means nothing. let it be absolutely clear that the pvv will never and under no circumstances agree to this monster from the bowels of the european union. no to the edeo, no to the superstate europe. yes to genuine freedom and democracy, shaped by the sovereign member states themselves.
i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new system of taxation of capital. the eu is founded on the recognition that prosperity for the largest possible group is a guarantee of economic development for all europeans. the open market, but also structural subsidies and the redistribution of wealth, are raising the living standards of the member states in eastern and central europe, and older member states are benefiting from this. every european has the right to a decent life, every citizen of the world has that right too. the fight against poverty is therefore in the lisbon treaty. the millennium development goals must be met, and just as we are doing with new member states, we can do it globally. poor countries are made richer by respect for the rule of law, which gives companies the courage to invest because their contracts are safe. global redistribution of wealth leads to a reduction in social tensions, reduces the likelihood of violence and refugee flows, increases our sales opportunities. it is therefore incomprehensible that there are member states and governments, as in the netherlands, my own country, which are now playing with the development budget and want to play with these objectives as well. in a misunderstood, short-sighted self-interest. the fight against poverty must remain the eu's priority.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development and cooperation. - mr president, the money we have set aside for development cooperation must also actually serve development objectives, so that we can help poor countries to cope with the blows caused by the financial and economic crisis which they did not cause. if we ensure that they are integrated into the global economy, they become a new market and therefore part of the solution. development money, dci money is for that. for the fight against poverty and not for the eu's cooperation with industrialized countries. nor should the finding of funds for the reform of banana production - banana accompanying measures - come at the expense of current development programmes. in addition, the eidhr should maintain the level of funding for the strengthening of democracy and human rights. the recent floods in pakistan have once again demonstrated the need for a rapid and effective response. not through emergency measures in the budget, but through a structural amount for humanitarian aid. the eu must be able to act immediately and continue to contribute.
mr president, when i hear the comments on the 2011 budget from the christian democrats and the socialists in particular, i am filled with a feeling of shame that i do not want to be part of this european parliament. while people at home are uncertain about jobs and incomes, and waiting for inspiring politicians to cut where they can and invest where they are needed most, the commission and parliament are succeeding in increasing spending on all kinds of useless and unnecessary hobbies almost across the board. while mr barroso is calling on the member states to cut back, his commission and the european parliament are simultaneously increasing the 2011 budget. you can't take that seriously anymore. but it does happen. it seems as if this parliament does not realise what is really on the minds of citizens at home. with a few favorable exceptions, it is one gray, grey, money-eating monster. well, i hear some people in the room think it's that weird ppv but that's what's calling it. and indeed, mr president, we hold up the mirror and say: 'is it necessary to waste our citizens' money on expensive service cars, even in private time? is it necessary to invest in parties when europe is in a deep economic crisis? is it necessary to set up an expensive foreign service when each member state can do it all by itself? is it necessary to keep useless expensive committees alive and send even more money to yemen and the palestinians?" it's only the pvv, mr president. but make no mistake about it. the pvv is no longer alone in europe. we're fighting for the people, trying to be a voice in this money-spending circus. i am proud of my country and my citizens and will continue to shout. because i have to, and because i don't want to. that is why we will vote against the 2011 budget. the president is prepared to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8)).
the fact that the pvv is an anti-european party, mr president, is clear from his speech and from the amendments. the pvv also presents itself as a party that fights crime and wants to send people back to their home country. my question to mr hartong is: how can you do that if you reduce the entire budget of europol to zero, if you completely eliminate the schengen information system and if you completely eliminate the 113 million from the european return fund?
i thank the president for this question from my colleague. as my colleague is aware, the policy of combating terrorism and similar matters is a matter for the member states and we do not believe that it is a matter for the european union. in addition, my honourable friend will also be aware of the fact that there has been enormous fraud at europol in recent years, which we have recently discussed in this house, and that seems to me to be reason enough to bring police policy back to the national member states as well. the president is prepared to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8)).
a very interesting question, and it is also a debate which will be held much longer in this house. the new dutch government has indeed committed itself to reducing its debt to the european union, and i am very happy and grateful for that. and we will certainly have our say in the debate on the multiannual financial framework of this house. then you can be sure that we will be very critical of any further increases in the 2011 budget and the years after.
the economic crisis, mr president, calls for cuts, as is so clearly apparent in the budgets of the member states. the european parliament, on the other hand, voted to increase the eu budget in 2011. it is irresponsible that the rapporteurs at the highest political level are still being accused of proposing too low amounts. the european parliament also expressed its wish for the european union to be able to raise its own funds more independently. the principle that member states should finance the european union is thus called into question. the social democrats are proposing a tax on financial transactions, the proceeds of which would go to the eu budget. but a european tax is not desirable. if there is a tax on banks, the proceeds should go towards paying off the high public debt of the member states. they have had to spend large sums of money to save banks.
mr president, for my party the 2011 budget did not have to be higher than the 2010 budget. that's not necessary. what we want is for the money to be spent much more intelligently, in such a way that we really achieve that european added value. unfortunately, the council has not done so. - no, it's the opposite. the council has maintained agriculture, cohesion - where the future does not lie - and is cutting back on knowledge, innovation, sustainability and energy. and let these be the investments that will determine our competitiveness in the future. i am therefore not surprised that as many as seven member states voted against the council's common position. mr president, you all know that the budget is a solid one and that we as a parliament have virtually no flexibility to move between chapters. the council has already complained about this. it is also a great pity that the review of the current financial perspective is only coming today, far too late to allow for that flexibility. the result of all this is that we as a parliament have no choice in my view. we do need to increase the investment we need in knowledge, innovation, sustainability and energy and that gives that higher budget. but the council leaves us no choice. finally, mr president, we must have our own resources, because that is the only way to change the council's mind.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i thank the commissioner for the budget review, which is now finally here. what is crucial in the budget review is that we are going to look critically at whether the resources of the eu have achieved what we think. there is a lot of money going to agriculture and cohesion funds; have these sums been delivering on the targets that we aimed for? i must say that the budget review is a bit sparse on these kinds of questions. but let us look to the future. i very much welcome your attitude, commissioner, when you say we have to look at the goals we are aiming for in the 2020 strategy – i.e. goals on innovation, on climate, on poverty eradication, on employment. these targets should be given a central place and these targets should also be used for the budget review. that means something for our agricultural policies and for our cohesion policies, and here we expect some good and ambitious reforms from the commission to make sure that agricultural policies and cohesion policies really deliver on poverty eradication, greenhouse gas reduction, innovation and unemployment. that is again, i think, very important. i turn to some crucial ideas that you address such as some new ideas on private investors. i have to say that this issue of private investors has been addressed before, but we know from the iter experience and from the galileo experience that they are not there, so we have to make sure that we are not building on them if they are not forthcoming. as for the european investment bank, yes, try to include the eib, but the democratic accountability of the investment bank is crucial. how can we make sure that their investments are also delivering? finally, on own resources. the financial transaction tax is mentioned again, but we know from the ecofin this week that the financial transaction tax is not supported by the commission; it is not even on the barroso list for the g20. still, however, it is in this document, stating that maybe these kinds of incomes can be used. what is the position of the commission on the financial transaction tax, because the commission is vague and inconsistent here?
i am sure that the commission will be able to give us a clear answer to this question, and i am sure that the council will be able to give us a clear answer to this question. one of the biggest problems i find at the moment - and this is confirmed when i listen to commissioner lewandowski when he talks about feasibility - is that we look too much at feasibility. because that's only good for vested interests. of course, we have unanimity, and that is a big problem. but vested interests are the only thing that is being served by the european budget at the moment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i see europe, and the budget in particular, as a mammoth tanker. it's a tough one to change course, but we now have a chance to get that mammoth tanker out of the water and into the dock. let's take that opportunity and see if we can maybe convert that big mammoth tanker into a couple of much smaller speedboats. finally, the own resources. they are important not only because europe has its own resources, but also because they are now countering the perverse effect of member states' contributions. member states are only interested in one thing and that is how much money they can get back from the european budget. and we're fighting that with a home-field system.
president. - thank you, commissioner, for your contribution so far. you say that there is no need for new laws, and i think you are jumping to conclusions. because, let's face it, that red mud doesn't qualify as hazardous waste. there's no way to explain it. what do you mean, "i'm not a doctor"? is that enough? but also under the ippc directive, which this aluminium plant is covered by, they have to use the best available techniques. these techniques are, for example, two protective walls. there was only one protective wall. so there are obviously problems there, too. i would therefore ask the commission to analyse more clearly whether the laws are sufficiently correct. then there are the inspections: photos from june already showed that there were leaks. national regulators have said there are no problems. those inspections were insufficient. is it not time for the commission to come forward with more ambitious proposals on european inspections to ensure that national inspectors are also checked again to prevent such disasters in the future?
i would like to express my sympathy to all hungarians affected. your environmental disaster has drawn the attention of the world to hungary. this disaster has made one thing clear to everyone, and that is that the maintenance and control of old industrial buildings is essential. even in times of economic crisis, maintenance costs should not be reduced. i'm going to switch to dutch. a drama in hungary has caught the eyes of all in europe and one thing is clear - you hear it here too - is that the monitoring and maintenance of the installations themselves is essential, and that there are other installations in the industry that are in place. also in these times there is economic crisis which cannot really be under control and monitored. good omzetting en implementatie van de afvalstoffenrichtlijnen are noodzaak en hoofdzaak. the directive is not intended to be implemented in the member states, but is intended to be implemented in the union. en om het toch maar even you vermelden: i'm not going to give you a chance to get married. waste is the raw material for the future and should not be a threat, but a chance. en opgeslagen afval zoals dit - meren met afval - mag echt niet meer voorkomen. (it is not possible to be imprisoned for the same reason as this.) recycling of hergebruiken. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: but member states should be at least as ambitious in their efforts to protect people, the environment and industry, and to do more to recycle and reuse waste. therefore, together with others, hungary and the commission and other member states wherever possible also call for the waste directive to be repealed, and for industrial waste and environmental safety to be properly implemented. it is also supervised and supervised. the commission is not obliged to take any action to prevent this.
author. − madam president, we know the commissioner is a very determined and courageous person. commissioner, you will not be easily held back by anyone and you do not usually need nudging. if you want something, you go straight for your goal. i wish you would be as determined in this particular case. just this week you published the commission communication on the effective implementation of the charter of fundamental rights. the communication states that the commission will make full use of its powers to ensure that the member states apply eu law, in full respect of fundamental rights, and that you will not hesitate to initiate infringement procedures. in the case of france, i wonder why the commission relies exclusively on the declarations of the government when, as hélène flautre has just pointed out, there has been a series of declarations which, with hindsight, turned out to be unreliable. why does the commission not start its own investigation? we have asked for this before. you know that a majority in this house is behind you. we know that there is a lot of opposition from the member states, but we are behind you, ms reding. i should like to refer to the situation in france, the situation in italy – which seems to be even more serious – and the situation in my own country. first of all, i would like to know whether the existence of these databases can be confirmed. do we have proof that they exist or do not exist? do we have a list? in the case of the netherlands, i know there is a list because the municipalities which created the databases are quite proud of it; they think they have done a very good job. they probably did it with good intentions. if the databases exist, would you take the view that this is legal or illegal? if it is legal, we do not need a debate. if it is illegal, we need to start infringement procedures. it is that simple. the commission does not hesitate in other areas. for example, you tackled the opposition head-on when you wanted to sort out mobile phone roaming rates. if there are cartels, then the commission does not hesitate for a second. in this case, i think that the commission should act. ms reding, this is the time for the eu to prove that it is a community of values and that it will intervene if fundamental rights are being violated. citizens are watching us. like hélène flautre, i would like to ask you to come to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs to explain to us what the situation is and what action the commission intends to take. i too, as a member of parliament and as a european citizen, expect to obtain full access to all the correspondence that has taken place with france and possibly other member states.
there are positive signs, mr president, but there is still a risk that the crisis will worsen. the banking system is still fragile and public deficits in a number of member states are threatening to spiral out of control if no action is taken. that is why we need economic union as soon as possible. the results of the task force are still vague, but i would like to say to commissioner rehn, as rapporteur for the stability and growth pact, that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. we can work fast. i'll tell the council the same thing. we can work quickly, but we will do so on the basis of the commission's proposals. is the council prepared to accept that? i would also like to warn against the amendment to the treaty which has now been requested. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we must now do everything possible within the framework of the lisbon treaty. this parliament now has a new co-legislative role in the stability and growth pact. this parliament will play its full part in creating a strong economic union with a strong stability and growth pact.
mr president, we have just shown how worthy we can be as a parliament. but the moment i enter the plenary, i am first harassed by people who think we should sign resolutions, and then i am escorted by balloons because of amendments. i do not think this is worthy of parliament, mr president, and i ask you to think about it and to consider how we can keep the corridors clean too.
in the case of the european parliament, the vvd voted today against the proposal for a directive extending maternity leave (paid) to 20 weeks. we believe that the minimum of 14 weeks previously set is sufficient. women who are unable to return to work after maternity leave can avail themselves of the sickness legislation in their country. the proposal means an extension of social security which the member states should be able to decide on themselves, especially at a time when every member state has to cut back. measures to create a better work-life balance can also be implemented in other, less rigorous ways. the proposal risks reducing the chances of young talented women entering the labour market, as employers do not want to risk paying workers for a large number of months of maternity leave. the increase in births in the eu, which is desirable in order to combat ageing, does not need to be regulated at eu level either. eu rules to regulate the exemption of work for breastfeeding are redundant as far as vvd is concerned. the vvd-euro group: the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the
mr president, we need to push for a maximum of transparency and accountability on the budget as this will contribute highly to the legitimacy of the eu’s external policy. we are talking about significant sums spent on the basis of regulations which leave a considerable margin of manoeuvre for the commission. this is all right, but we need to exert our full scrutiny on strategy papers, multiannual indicative programmes and the like, as they are of a general scope and supplement the financial instruments by defining priority areas and objectives. the commission should show its result in an annual report to parliament with particular attention to the oda eligibility of all projects. programming and planning should be carried out by the same expert people who are doing this now, but the external action service itself needs more development and human rights experts to understand and work with these instruments in brussels and in eu delegations in third countries.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). that was on monday. in short, it is the wild west of eastern europe. foreign investors would fear the lawlessness in ukraine, where as many as 3,000 buildings and businesses were expropriated by fraud and violence last year. the 'raiders' and the country's politicians are playing under the same roof, according to the duped entrepreneurs. meanwhile, eu member states have been the largest foreign direct investors in ukraine since 1991. commissioner füle, do you recognise the major concerns of european investors in ukraine, and what concrete measures is the commission taking to protect legitimate, legal european business interests in the ukrainian economy? because that's commitment. we have nothing against ukraine, my party is in fact very much in favour of ukraine becoming a member of the european union in the long term, but we must of course remain sober. we are seeing worrying developments in the field of human rights, but also in the economic and business fields.
president, commissioner, international conventions must be submitted to the european parliament for approval. as members of parliament we must exercise our veto as much as possible, but our work is now being made almost impossible. we must repeatedly ask the commission to clarify the state of play in the acta negotiations. we're always getting hit with words. first we were fed the argument that the negotiations were far from complete, now we hear from you that this is just an enforcement agreement, which does not change existing legislation in the eu and in the member states. but i ask you: what is the added value of acta? you say that there will be no harmonization of criminal law nor an indirect obligation to adopt a three-strikes policy. but we are here again to discuss the content of this draft convention and these very points. yet every day i receive messages from concerned citizens and businesses. nevertheless, there is a general consensus among the groups in the european parliament that this draft treaty raises questions about the fundamental rights of our citizens and travellers from third countries. so i ask you with great insistence: what are the specific benefits of adopting acta? we are not going to vote for the report. and now a very specific question, commissioner: when will acta be discussed again by the negotiating parties? who are the parties that disagree? why is this? all of them, commissioner. we have again understood that the last dots on the i have not yet been put. how can we agree to a treaty that is being negotiated in back rooms?
mr president, yesterday the commission adopted a strategy to mainstream the legally binding eu charter of fundamental rights. as liberals we proposed this, so this is music to my ears. today the commission posted information on acta after the end of the last negotiations three weeks ago. the site has a paragraph called ‘positive aspects of acta’, but there are also some questions that might be labelled otherwise. firstly, do trade agreements or law enforcement treaties – which i think acta really is – also fall under the mainstreaming of fundamental rights? will the commission do an assessment? secondly, is the commission willing to go back to the negotiating table if fundamental rights are at risk through acta? will the commission wait to finalise the negotiations to take the parliament’s resolution of early next year into real account? as far as i know, no country has put its initials on a single page of acta. when it comes to the internet, acta even breaks new ground, the statement reads. the preamble states that acta seeks ‘to promote cooperation between service providers and rights holders’. article 2.18.3 goes on, ‘each party shall endeavour to promote cooperative efforts within the business community to effectively copyright infringements. this implies extra-judicial measures and challenges the division of power’. article 2.18.4 states that the competent authority, not necessarily judicial, should have the power ‘to order an online provider to disclose expeditiously to a rights holder information sufficient to identify a subscriber whose account was allegedly used for infringement’. besides pointing to the word ‘allegedly’, i would like to stress that internet service providers are concerned that they will have to start enforcing the law. so some room needs to be made under the heading ‘negative aspects of acta’ to assess the fundamental rights aspect that acta still has in the current draft and that the commission from now on is legally obliged to mainstream.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). but a treaty that says the business community has to work together to fight copyright infringement, that gets a little complicated for me. and if i may go back to the handbags, is that the leather-paddler asking the manufacturer of zippers and buckles if they would like to start checking the population that buys those bags? and are we, as a government, going to delegate policing to these kinds of companies? that is what your proposal remains dangerous and unclear. i hear you say, mr de gucht, that you fear that if we omit the patents from the acta agreement, we will be hindering the pharmaceutical industry. i fear otherwise, because there are still uncertainties about these patents and about border controls. so that is not to say that something as embarrassing as stopping anti-hiv drugs in the port of rotterdam is not going to happen again. so, mr. de gucht, you can put us at ease and test acta against the bill of rights. your commission published its strategy yesterday. we are reassured that people in developing countries have a right to health care. rest assured that the internet user is not controlled by companies and is not restricted in his freedom.
on behalf of the group of the european democratic alliance mr president, this debate shows the european commitment to the fractured republic of moldova, and i am very pleased about that. in my country, the netherlands, citizens have been developing inspiring social initiatives for years to offer moldovan young people real prospects for the future. i would also like to pay tribute to the orhei foundation in spakenburg/bunschoten, a village which is very dynamic. i can face them, because we are also talking about it here, showing concern. in passing, moldova is seeking a deep and comprehensive trade agreement with the european union. commissioner füle also points to this. commissioner, how are things going and is there any real progress to report? the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the wine market in the republic of moldova. the main traditional market for moldova is russia, which regularly closes and restricts its borders for political reasons. commissioner, you have already indicated that the european union can sometimes really help in this emergency on the part of moldova. i have one last question about the so-called meseberg initiative of chancellor merkel. does russia now really want to resolve the transnistrian issue in exchange for an upgrade of the political dialogue between the eu and russia? because i'm getting reports that the kremlin is not moving yet. i would like to thank the commissioner for his excellent report and for the work he has done in this area.
in writing. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. we voted in favour of mandatory labelling of pharmaceutical products because we believe that consumers have the right to know where their medicines, etc. come from. labelling is also important to help detect counterfeit medicines. of all the counterfeit products in the eu, fake medicines are the most commonly found.
author. − mr president, the first indent of our resolution says it all: ‘having regard to its numerous previous resolutions on zimbabwe, most recently that of 8 july this year’. we were speaking then about human rights violations in the diamond fields of zimbabwe, and we are speaking now about eviction around harare. people are being evicted who were already evicted in 2005 in operation murambatsvina, which incidentally means ‘clean out the trash’. the same people who were cleaned out as trash last time are being evicted now. last time it was mugabe’s government fighting its fight against the mdc. this time it is the unity government of zanu and mdc. i must say that i am deeply disappointed that, within this unity government, this sort of human rights violation still continues. i do not think this will be our last resolution on zimbabwe. i will be here next time and i will make the point again.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, at the eu-africa summit in libya next november there should be talks on how mugabe and his close supporters remain a continuing stumbling block in the process of political and economic reconstruction and reconciliation in zimbabwe. they are plundering its economic resources for their own benefit and they are not granting their citizens fundamental rights. around 20 000 people living in the outskirts of harare have been threatened with forced eviction. the government is demanding a renewal lease fee of up to usd 140, but in a country where per capita income is less than usd 100 this is effectively impossible and this demand is a de facto licence for abuse. in 2005, 70 000 people were evicted and these people still live in dire circumstances. in general, the humanitarian, political and economic situation in zimbabwe continues to deteriorate and millions of people continue to be at risk of starvation. the country has the world’s fourth-highest rate of hiv and high child mortality. people do not have many chances to grow up in health and prosperity, and if they do they lack fundamental freedoms such as freedom of expression. zimbabwe ranks 123rd in terms of freedom of the press. the return of independent dailies is a step forward for public access to information, but the situation is still very fragile. i want to draw specific attention to the situation of lgbti people in zimbabwe. people need unrestricted access to be granted relief, humanitarian access and aid so that the attempts by zimbabwe to achieve the millennium development goals can get under way. this is very necessary.
author. − mr president, sam rainsy is a colleague of ours, a member of the parliament in cambodia. that mere fact has led to assassination attempts and a number of political and legal attacks by the ruling party, including a 12-year prison sentence. the ruling party apparently does not like the fact that sam rainsy denounces corruption and human rights abuses. i would like to remind this ruling party that the eu is the single largest donor institution to cambodia and that this aid is conditional on respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. in 2006 sam rainsy received the prize for freedom from liberal international. he received this prize for the defence of freedoms we share across this parliament. we therefore call on the cambodian authorities to implement the recommendations of the un special rapporteur for human rights in cambodia.
author. − mr president, today president buzek announced the winner of this year’s sakharov prize. this prize embodies freedom of thought, an essential european freedom and right we stand for on behalf of our citizens and across the world. in response to the nobel peace prize award, president buzek called firmly on china to release liu xiao bo and said: ‘freedom is not a threat, but the threats to freedom can be many’. this also goes for the people who defend human rights in the northern caucasus. last year’s sakharov prize awardees oleg orlov, sergei kovalev and lyudmila alexeyeva, of memorial, have not been able to pick up their award personally as their freedom is threatened. the eu invests tremendously in eu-russia relations, and we are joined through the council of europe and the osce. russia has thus committed itself to protecting and promoting human rights and the rule of law, but what a long way we are from that situation. intimidation of journalists and civil society activists prevails, disappearances of human rights defenders happen systematically and there is no freedom of expression, including on the internet. the absence of the rule of law has led to 20 000 cases pending at the european court of human rights from the russian federation. russia has the right to fight terrorism in the northern caucasus, but if the rule of law is not upheld this has a counter-productive effect on stability. there really is no excuse for russia not to comply with its own commitment to human rights. we look forward and will see to it that the representatives of memorial have the freedom to come to this parliament, thereby symbolising the freedoms and rights that all citizens in the northern caucasus enjoy.
the strategic importance of turkey to the transatlantic relationship is obvious. in this context, i look forward to hearing the council's opinion on the new so-called 'red book' of the turkish national security council. the new edition follows the strategy of the turkish foreign minister. my first question to the council, in view of the forthcoming transatlantic summit, was: does the council share the fear that turkey's current foreign policy is playing into the hands of revisionist players in the region - the islamic republic of iran in particular - and is thus undermining stability in the middle east? my second question: will the council also present the 'red book' to the transatlantic summit, given the crucial position turkey occupies for the eu as a candidate country and also as a nato partner?
mr president, to be a credible partner and to act as a global player, the eu needs to speak with one voice. president obama and his administration have rightly made this known, and we need to be able to honestly criticise each other like that. this is necessary to ensure a credible transatlantic relationship characterised by complementarity and coordination. how can we work together on defending human rights, the rule of law and democracy in this world when hillary clinton gives a speech on a vision for global internet freedom while the us is insisting on keeping the negotiations on the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta) non-transparent, leading to tremendous concerns about internet freedom? this is contradictory and undermines our credibility. why do we have to learn through leaked documents that torture was inflicted and condoned in iraq? we call for an independent inquiry. why could the commission not answer my question about requests made by the us administration with regard to criminal measures against wikileaks? does it consider the transatlantic relationship more important than questions from meps? why does the us push european companies to take sanctions beyond those taken by the eu regarding iran? the us should respect the eu’s independence and its complementary role. both the eu and the us have to work transparently, respect each other’s independence and allow for democratic scrutiny of our actions. is it not that which distinguishes us – the us and the eu – from others, most notably with regard to fundamental freedoms and human rights?
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner and the minister for their introductions. i very much welcome the very cooperative attitude of the commission and the council. we have had examples in the past where the cooperation was less intimate. i think that this example shows that, if the three main institutions can reach an agreement, we can speak with a single voice on behalf of 500 million citizens – and that is a very powerful voice. the resolution has been tabled jointly by six political groups, meaning that this parliament is sending a very strong political signal. i would also like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs of the other groups for their very good cooperation. there is one point which the commissioner and the minister did not address in their presentations: the issue of proportionality and necessity. both the council and the commission still claim that the massive – not ad hoc – collection and storage of pnr data is necessary and proportional in view of the fight against terrorism. i am willing to believe them, but this claim has to be substantiated: we need proof of necessity, proof of proportionality. why? the proportionality test is not a political test, it is legal test. european data protection laws require the collection and storage of data to be proportional and necessary. this is not something that we can agree on politically, it is something that has to be proven in court. if somebody goes to court and the court rules that these agreements are not watertight, then we look like idiots. the european parliament cannot be asked to endorse something which is open to legal challenge. that is a key issue. there are some other things which need clarification. i am pleased to hear that the commission is looking into the profiling issue, but i think that we need some further discussion on that. some of the member states are proposing a sunset clause. i would, of course, wholeheartedly endorse that; i hope that the council decides to introduce that. finally, the european commission refers to good relations with third countries, but these agreements cannot be seen as instruments of international diplomacy. they are instruments of international cooperation in law enforcement and protecting civil liberties and the rule of law. we need to get it right now, because we are not only negotiating with the us, canada and australia, but also setting a model and example for agreements with other countries.
the freedom party, mr president, is a strong supporter of measures that can help in the fight against terrorism, and islamic terrorism in particular. the pvv also attaches great importance to the protection of the privacy of dutch citizens and believes that where these interests conflict, careful consideration should be given. the u.s. government is allowed to have access to our passenger data, but under three conditions. the first condition is that they will be used only in the fight against terrorism. the second condition is reciprocity. american airlines must also provide this information to european authorities, in the same way as the other way round. this information should not be provided to a european agency but to the authorities of the european member states where the aircraft stop or have their final destination. the third condition is that the data transmitted must not be discriminatory. the united states and thus european countries can ask for any information provided on the basis of a voluntary choice made by the passengers. i emphasize that voluntary choice. data on religion, ideology, address, place of residence, telephone number, credit card number and data derived from the passport are data that may be provided. data which are not of the passenger's voluntary choice, such as sexuality, ethnic background and disabilities, should not be provided in my party's view. i would also like to stress once again, mr president, why these measures are necessary. let 's be clear . they're not needed to counter christian or buddhist terrorism. these measures are unfortunately necessary because islam is a threat to the free world. it is time for the members of this house to understand this.
mr president, we know that we are always a little behind society. things evolve, and politics and legislation follow later. the fact that there is now a format with civil rights requirements that a pnr agreement must comply with is very sensible, but it shows so well that we are always following the developments. the previous debate on the framework agreement on data protection also shows this. my fear is not that that list, which looks good, is now there and that you are using it. my concern is the maintenance of the various bilateral agreements between member states and other states. i would therefore ask the council, mrs turtelboom, whether it can guarantee that this is over once and for all. i would recommend that the negotiators take the european convention on human rights in book form and put the fundamental rights on the table next to you when you start negotiating, and look at them regularly.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to improve the quality of the information it receives. we agree on that. but apparently the urgency is not quite clear yet, because the european council has decided not to talk about the innovation union until february and march next year. - why? - why? are the urgent, big societal challenges all solved by then? has the energy problem, the resource problem or the ageing problem been solved? no, and that is why we urgently need to discuss and discuss this innovation strategy. there are plenty of questions. what are innovation partnerships? the commission's innovation strategy is clear, but this question remains open. it is clear that there is no need for new instruments, at least not entirely new ones, but better ones. long-term certainty is important, but we would prefer to have a well-functioning instrument with a vision for 2020. what is important is that innovation partnerships should be as concrete and clear as possible, with real impact, technology neutral and close to the market, and with a clear deadline. with the involvement of all key partners and industry, government, research institutions and, above all, the citizen, who is the driving force behind innovation and its success. it's very good that we're building on existing strength with healthy aging, actually living healthy rather than aging healthy, and it seems that actually aging healthy starts at conception. all partnerships should focus on the efficient and intelligent use of natural resources, starting with the most urgent problems: energy, the running out of raw materials. that's where more innovation is needed. it means the council's full commitment and enthusiasm. both are necessary to make the innovation strategy work. retreating beyond the borders is not an option. economics is really not just about the euro or the banking sector, the stability pact. it is about jobs in europe, a better position for europe in the world and if not through innovation, then how?
president. - although the court of auditors states that the accountability of european expenditure has improved, the house does not give full approval to the expenditure. this is partly because the second largest item, 'cohesion', although showing an improvement, still had errors in about 40% of the projects; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i find that unacceptable; the commission in particular must therefore investigate thoroughly how these errors could have arisen and how they can be reduced. this is particularly important in view of the 2009 discharge. yesterday, mr engwirda, member of the court of auditors, said that the errors were mainly caused by the complexity of the procedures. this is a further demonstration of the need for a simpler and more transparent europe. if that does not happen, europe will remain a complicated far-from-my-bed-show for our citizens. (the president declared his readiness to answer a 'blue card' question under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure) 0 other
i fully understand that, mr president. i am concerned that billions cannot be declared, and that is why i have asked the commission to look into this in depth and also to see how this can be improved. fortunately, the commissioner has just indicated in his speech that he is going to take this inquiry seriously.
president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak as the coordinator of the regional policy of the ppe. if i now look at the margin of error, it is a clear improvement for cohesion. we are now seeing the effects of the new regulations we have drawn up for 2007-13 and of the action plans for which parliament, the commission and the previous commission have worked. the majority of the hesitations, of the errors, are in the public procurement file. the transposition of european legislation into national legislation in a number of member states and its implementation greatly increase the margin of error. i therefore ask the commissioners to come up with an action plan to put pressure on the member states, or to support them, in the area of public procurement. i was able to lead a delegation from parliament to romania last week, and you can see how they are struggling, how these troublemakers are living. you can make a big deal out of that. finally, i am also in favour of these national management declarations, financial declarations to be made by the member states, because that is where the evil lies to a large extent.
in writing. - i am opposed to asking the commission, as the christian democrats and liberals want, to reconsider the ban on the feeding of meat and bone meal from non-ruminants. that prohibition must remain in place for two reasons. first of all: the ban is not without reason and was introduced to stop the bse crisis. we know that we are taking a certain risk if we were to lift this ban. i don't want to be a part of it. i would prefer to see food safety for the consumer: don't take a risk that you don't know how big it is and what impact it might have. secondly: we've seen in recent years that the viruses that are found in living animals can mutate quickly. if we were to lift the ban on the feeding of meat and bone meal from non-ruminants, there is a risk that we would give this mutation process of viruses an impetus. we shouldn't do that.
madam president, as has been highlighted by our colleague mr gauzès, some people hate the euro; they see it as the root of all evil and they cheer at the prospect of the collapse of the euro zone. but these people are wrong and they live in the past. the current troubles are not caused by the euro; on the contrary, the euro protects us from even worse. we need the common currency but we also need proper governance of the euro zone; loose cooperation on the basis of unanimity is not an option anymore. colleagues, we are on a ship with a giant hole in its side; it is sink or swim at this moment. but national governments still seem to think that it is enough to set up task forces and working groups and talk about maybe seeking closer cooperation, and then again maybe not. the good news is that they seem to be acting more decisively and more quickly in the case of ireland, because swift action is needed and very welcome. this is not just about rescuing single countries: it is about the credibility of the euro zone. it is about the world testing us. are we willing and able to act? the confidence of the world in the euro zone is essential for the stability of our currency; the money in our pockets depends on the confidence that others have in us. so i therefore urge national politicians to stop playing the populist card, or indeed publicly tearing up euro notes, and instead take ownership and take responsibility for our shared currency. finally, a word about the austerity measures. they are much criticised, and some people even say that they will damage the economy. of course we have to act with caution, but these measures are necessary to sanitise public finance in the long term and are also a sign of solidarity between countries in the euro zone. i think we should talk not only about the expenditure side but also about the revenue side, because there too reforms – whether of the labour market, pensions or social security – are necessary and long overdue.
president, since the introduction of the euro, the ecb has not had a year as eventful as 2009. the fight against the crisis has cost a lot of effort and is still ongoing. i think we need to tackle the crisis better and more forcefully. the creation of a european emergency fund is not a structural solution. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what really helps is tough cuts, strict budgetary discipline and the associated automatic sanctions. fortunately, mr balz's report is clear on this point. let the council adopt the same approach in the adjustment of the stability and growth pact. we need to cut back to get out of the crisis. the majority of this parliament should apply this condition to the european budget as well. acceptance of the 2.9% budget increase is already a very broad compromise. no citizen understands that parliament wants more and more. don't do that!
mr president, this afternoon i received the latest information from a dutch aid organization which has been present in haiti for many years, and that information actually confirms the bleak but realistic picture which has been sketched out by the commission. at the same time, the dutch aid agency told me that it had placed its trust in europe as a major donor. what does she trust? well, there was a huge amount pledged at the international donor conference, but only a small part of it has been received. now the united nations is asking for more money, but much of the money that has been promised has not yet come in. so i hope that the european union will take the lead in making sure that the money actually comes in now, because the situation is dire. acute issues are prevention, of course, clean drinking water. i hope that the european union will take the initiative to ensure that haiti has a good water supply. the most important are experts, well-drilling, clean drinking water and also the issue of medical care. there's shortages everywhere. i will call on the netherlands, and also on the european institutions, to ensure that they are actually given immediate help in this acute emergency situation.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i have to say that i am very touched by the new romance between the epp and the s&d group, but i do feel that the intimate and loving embrace between mr rapkay and mr lange is keeping europe firmly stuck in the past. we are talking about the seventh extension of the special state aid regime. mr rapkay himself has indicated that he was rapporteur back in 2002. who will give us a guarantee that we are not going to have the same debate in 2018? because the reasons that were valid back in 2002 that are valid today, will still be valid in 2018. therefore my group, without reserve, endorses the position of the commission. we have requested a separate vote on amendments 25 and 27, and we call on all colleagues in the two big groups to vote against those amendments and support the position of the commission to phase out the support by 2014. i know that votes took place in the different committees, but i also know that there are many colleagues in the two big groups who feel deeply uncomfortable with the current position. i think they should realise that they have all the freedom in the world to vote according to their conscience, because it is not actually the european parliament that decides. so they should vote in order to state their views. we are not negotiating; we do not have to compromise. we can give a very strong political signal in support of the commission, and therefore i think this european parliament should act as a counterweight to the very strong political pressure from the member states on the commission and show that this parliament is looking to the future and not to the past.
today, fortunately, aid from the european solidarity fund to the netherlands is still on the agenda, but if it had been up to my colleague, mr daul of the ppe, there would have been no vote today to punish the netherlands for rejecting the 6% increase in the eu budget and the introduction of european taxes. the ppv finds it absolutely unacceptable that this has even been considered by mr daul. and we as a dutch member state feel deeply humiliated.
the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. cooperation between judicial authorities may be necessary to combat crime and to bring justice and legal certainty to the european internal market. but there is a danger that cooperation within the framework of the cfsp will lead europe to become involved in matters which fall within national competence. in paragraph 40 of the berlinguer report, the emphasis is on mutual recognition of marriage and family law, without any reference to article 81 (3) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. it states that each member state retains sovereignty in the area of family law with cross-border implications. as this european principle has not been explicitly respected and as the ecr amendment on this point has been rejected, i did not support the report.
i am very pleased, mr president, with the attitude of the british and dutch governments in particular so far. they have, for excellent reasons, stopped the increase in the eu budget for 2011 and have not agreed to the introduction of own resources, read european taxes. i'll give you credit for that. at the same time, i regret to say that the european parliament does not wish to learn from the lessons that the member states are teaching. the euro-clique thought it would raise more money for its own hobbies, singled out as being out of touch with reality. people have no idea what's going on in their own citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. none of that. the netherlands, along with other member states, has very good reasons for rejecting the increase in the eu budget and the introduction of european taxes. we are doing this on democratic grounds and therefore find it completely inappropriate that colleagues in the christian-democratic group, for example, should think that the netherlands should be punished for this. as a co-founder of the eu, the netherlands has almost always been the biggest contributor. dutch taxpayers' money. is mr daul now going to call for punitive measures against other member states? is this the end of the eu? you'd almost hope so, seeing the interests of the citizens being so compromised. it is deeply saddening, mr president, that we are accused of being populists. if populism means listening to the people, representing them and offering genuinely convincing arguments to get out of the economic crisis that the eu has imposed on us, then i am proud of that name. we will of course continue to oppose the increase in the 2011 budget and the european taxation. and, mr. schulz, before you get started, i'm not a blonde.
president, the european parliament is delaying the adoption of the 2011 budget. his claim to control the financing of the european union in the long term includes an eu tax, although this is not explicitly acknowledged. the european parliament thus bears the suspicion that it does not want to play a constructive role in the annual budgetary procedure, in accordance with article 234 of the treaty. this does not bode well for the financial outlook for 2014-10, which it is keen to be involved in. the european parliament has already achieved more than is good for europe, its citizens, its businesses and the budgets of the member states with a budget increase of 2.91%. we have a responsibility to make a reasonable budget for 2011. that can put an end to these perhaps still instructive budgetary perils.
mr president, for years now, this parliament has been talking about cutting red tape. the commission has set up an internal working party of senior officials to ensure that the rules are not too stringent. that 's a bit of a strange figure: it's like a butcher chewing his own meat. at the initiative of parliament, a working party was set up outside the commission; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. after four years of the existence of the stoiber committee, is the commission in a position to say which approach is the best and most effective? the internal commission working party or the staiber working party outside the commission? the regulation itself. it is carried out by the member states, sometimes by five to eleven different control bodies in the member states. that's way too much. could the commission also cooperate with the private sector, which is already very demanding and therefore often makes the control of the member states unnecessary?
mr president, that is correct. i was unable to intervene for a moment when you removed the ukip colleague from the chamber, but i would like to protest against the lack of proper application of the rules. mr schulz has called my colleague daniel van der stoep a fascist in this chamber. you did nothing then; there were no excuses. nothing has been done to mr. schulz. what mr. schulz is doing now is exactly the same... (the president continued to speak but the microphone was off)
president, the eurozone is collapsing now, and mr barroso must lead that collapse. for years of giving billions of dollars in aid to countries like greece, spain, portugal and ireland has not made those weak economies competitive with the strong economies of germany and the netherlands. the billions in aid have led to unacceptable socialist behaviour. one third of the greek workforce is civil servants. the tsunami of non-western immigrants to europe has also cost every country billions, and those immigrants are now unemployed back home. the behaviour of socialists in particular. do you remember? spain, which legalized a million illegal immigrants a few years ago, now has an unemployment rate of 20%. now again, we, the stronger economies, have to give billions of dollars in aid to these countries, but that is only a short-term patch. in the long term, the question will be whether we are prepared to continue to provide structural support to the weak countries with billions of taxpayers' money. the answer to that is no. so i would like to ask mr barroso: is not the reintroduction of our own currency, the greek drachma, and also for ireland, the only long-term solution to our problems? is this solution also being seriously discussed with these countries?
i thank the president for allowing me to make my point of order, because the point is that the rules are of course consistently applied equally for everyone. i would like to point out the inconsistency of the presidency: you have just dismissed mr bloom for his remarks to mr schulz, when mr schulz has called my colleague daniel van der stoep a fascist in this chamber and the presidency has done nothing about it. there has not even been an apology from mr schultz, so it would be a great honour for mr schulz to leave the chamber now, as mr bloom did.
president, with the new treaty of lisbon, energy has become a shared responsibility between the eu and the member states. the second energy package, which is our basis here, clearly deserves to be supplemented and the report gives a good analysis of it. but it is up to the member states, with their private and public partners, to take the lead. operational programmes between and within member states are becoming increasingly important. the percentage targets for both climate and energy are sufficiently well established. there is no need for new additional binding targets. it has been said: the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. and perhaps the commission should be stronger in its assessment of these national programmes. and we must make our resources, perhaps eurobonds, dependent on it. there is still a gap between what is said and what is done. two accents: energy efficiency, a great opportunity for us. it contributes to the competitiveness of our companies, to employment. think of the plumbing and construction industries. look in your own country: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the second point: yes, indeed, you did. the infrastructure between countries, within countries and smart grids. that's what the eurobonds are for. and i have a question for the commissioner: is there any progress on those eurobonds in december? we are talking about new resources, we need money, and i would like to hear from you whether you are indeed able to raise money with this? action, that's what we need.
mr president, my colleague said that the public does not understand the climate debate. i would like to put the question to him: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
mr president, next week the un climate conference will be held in cancún. it is a total insult to the eu to be involved in this, because there is nothing wrong with our climate. we're experiencing normal temperature fluctuations, but we're not going to be able to see the sun. may i just turn to the real facts of this unnecessary conference? hundreds of participants are boarding a plane to mexico next week, emitting co2. and what is the purpose of the climate summit? well, reducing the carbon footprint. in cancún, 11,000 hectares of mangrove forest are currently being cut down. what was the purpose of the climate summit again? oh, yes, the protection of forests. president. - i have a modest suggestion to make to the eu. leave climate policy to truly independent specialists. it is simply costing the taxpayer a huge amount of money, and it has not brought us anything in the last decades, except one-sided reports from the ippc and charlatan pachauri.
president, thank you, commissioner, and the belgian presidency for your introductions. i would also like to remind the house that the copenhagen agreement was extremely weak, but even what it says is sometimes forgotten. the 2° target, or even the 1.5° target, is mentioned in the copenhagen agreement, and if we want to achieve that, we really need to take the lead now in reducing our own emissions, by more than -20%, but also the money for the first three years. the copenhagen agreement is very clear that it must be new and additional. commissioner hedegaard, you say we're almost there, but it's not new and additive, so we're definitely not there yet. let's be honest about that. then the role of the eu, the leadership. i would like to ask the belgian president: how are we gonna do that in cancun? we have now received a mandate from the council, but the negotiations must take place in cancún. if we change that, will it have to be unanimously agreed by all the member states, or will we go for the change by qualified majority? because that's the only way we can really make that leadership role. more ambition, more money and better negotiation.
the challenge facing cancún is complex and the urgency is high. but i do see opportunities, because the result in nagoya was hopeful and encouraging. there has been a lot of discussion about how we are going to engage the european union in this debate. are we aiming for -20% co2 or even -30? to me, less co2 does not equal less economy. we can therefore commit ourselves to a reduction target of more than 20%, because that creates opportunities for more green jobs, for innovation and for sustainable economic growth. i would also like to call on the ipcc to take seriously the criticisms of their reports. create an open scientific discussion platform so that all relevant information is taken into account and does not disappear under the table. if they do not, there will be an atmosphere of mistrust surrounding the ipcc reports, which i consider unnecessary and undesirable.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97). i think that is not only because of the economic crisis, but also because we are thinking short term instead of long term. in the short term, do we want free trade throughout africa and, therefore, for all those countries to push their epas through, or do we want a stable, growing economy in africa in the long term, with which we can trade more generously? do we want africa to keep its migrants at home, or do we recognize that in the future we will be aging and need workers? we do not want to pay for global warming and the problems it brings to africa, and we do not want to face a country that is destabilizing, a continent that is destabilizing, and large groups of refugees? do we want to fight china now and get resources as quickly as possible? or do we want to enjoy the prosperity that africa has? and, most importantly, how do we ensure that africa can continue to enjoy its own resources in the long term? how do we ensure that african citizens can hold african leaders to account? because this summit in tripoli also shows that we are dealing with leaders who have served their time long enough. buteflika, dos santos, mugabe, all gentlemen who you can ask if they have the best interests of their people at heart. these are questions we must answer.
the european union should take note of the many, sometimes incredible, irregularities in the local and regional elections in ukraine on 31 october. just to give you a few examples: the mass and uncontrolled printing of extra ballots in many regions, the photographing of ballots, and what about the massive pressure on civil servants, teachers, doctors and professors not to become candidates for opposition parties. the european union must - and you can - take a strong stand against this bad, undemocratic buildup to the 2012 ukrainian parliamentary elections. maintaining own political values against authoritarian tendencies in ukraine. if not, we risk our credibility with the country's first elites and not least with the reformist and democratic forces. fortunately, your clear contribution does not give rise to such a situation.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the concern for our fellow men in other countries, particularly in developing countries, must never be at the expense of purely commercial interests. i am thinking here of countries where christians and other religious minorities are persecuted for their faith. the eu has trade relations with, for example, pakistan. we want to give that country extra trade benefits now to help it get back on its feet after the floods. let's use our trade relations to denounce the religious persecution and blasphemy laws in pakistan. i also mention the negotiations between the european union and india. europe must not give in to indian pressure to leave non-trade issues out of the new trade agreement. you can't separate human rights and child labor from trade and investment. i call on the commission and on colleagues to take a firm stand on this, in line with the ep resolution of march 2009.
president. - the causes and consequences of climate change are based on a theory, but it seems to be more like a religious belief. nevertheless, everything is subordinated to this religion, as can be seen in this report on international trade. in fact, there is a call for true climate diplomacy, that is, the european union wants to do business, but only under strict climate-neutral conditions, just as the european union wants. moreover, these trading partners would prefer to concentrate immediately on the development of an internal market. export means transport, and more transport is very bad for global co2 emissions. now, this is where europe will really help the developing countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. what is the european union really getting involved in? the document shows a lack of economic insight. i quote from mr jadot's report, paragraph 57: 'regrets that international trade is largely in similar products which can be produced locally with equal ease.' end of quote. what economic miracle has come up with this? anyone who has had any economic education is familiar with the economic law that specialization and trade are the driving forces behind economic growth. the naïve reasoning in this report is fatal to the global economy. no wonder the majority of citizens and businesses are not waiting for european climate targets. meanwhile, europe is going further and further, formulating yet another series of absurd climate goals. emerging economies like china and india are not benefiting from this and will be playing along with the self-restraint imposed by europe. and who ultimately pays the price for pursuing europe's utopia? the public and the business community.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the european union's role in the world. the accompanying photo showed a christian family in a church in the capital baghdad, holed up in a church. the family had sought refuge in the mosque after islamic terrorists had deliberately started attacking christian homes. the revolting massacre of 31 october during the service in the syrian catholic episcopal church is therefore by no means an incident. the christian minority in the two-stream country has been subjected to outright religious persecution for years. that is the sad reality of iraq. look at the mass exodus of iraqi christians. since 2003, their number in iraq has dropped from 850,000 to 350,000, of whom 115,000 are internally displaced. what can the courageous 'left behind' - in quotes, because that is where they belong - expect from europe? notice, a christian minority whose historical roots in iraq go back to the first century, including the world's oldest churches and monasteries. i would like to propose three specific european aid operations for iraqi christians. first of all: the european union is also supporting the efforts of the iraqi government to provide humanitarian aid to the iraqi christians who have fled to the kurdish region to build a new life. give them a future in their own country. the same is true of the christian minority in the nineveh plain. european aid for vocational training, jobs for young people, loans for start-ups. secondly: the european institutions must urge the iraqi government - and this is very urgent - to remove the mention of religion from identity cards, because such a removal would considerably increase the personal security of religious minorities, especially christians. in addition, the existing mention of religion on identity cards currently leads to discrimination in applications for employment and in changing one's religion, among other things. thirdly: the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of democratization in iraq, and it has been a very active participant in the process of democratization in iraq. and of course, mr president, commissioner, i welcome any parliamentary contacts between europe and iraq to support the young democracy, and i am also very pleased that mr mauro will soon be presenting a report on the european union and iraq to the committee on foreign affairs. it's very important. finally, council and commission, i am counting on your - the council is not here, but that is fine - vigorous efforts towards the iraqi authorities for the continued existence of christian communities and churches in the legendary country of the two rivers.
- a writer. - mr president, dark clouds of muslim extremism are looming over the whole world and the middle east. in pakistan, asia bibi has found that despite her grace, she is not safe from the extremists. she'll have to move to another country, unfortunately. christians in iraq have also been displaced en masse. they're structurally victims of these extremists. in iraq, there is a very brutal expulsion of a religious community that has been there for much longer than those extremists. that is why the christians deserve our support. they must be able to continue to meet together to profess their faith. i therefore call on the commission to give this matter top priority. strong european support for moderate groups in iraq is badly needed. it is possible that in the future a muslim extremist will not be the last to shut and lock the doors of the churches in iraq.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, in iraq the death penalty was suspended after the us-led invasion in 2003 but reintroduced in august 2004. since then, hundreds of people have been sentenced to death and many have been executed. bringing perpetrators of human rights violations to justice is crucial for a stable future in any country, and that includes iraq. politicians and former politicians should be no exception, as they bear ultimate and often direct responsibility for such violations. it is well known that the human rights violations in iraq, under the responsibility of saddam hussein, tariq aziz and the like, assumed grave proportions. fair trials and due process are indispensable in ensuring reconciliation and taking a constructive step towards a better future. the european union is a community of values and a unique place in the world, especially when it comes to the death penalty, which we have abolished altogether. in relations with other countries, whether the united states, china, iran or iraq, we appeal to them not to deny people the ultimate right – the right to life – as a form of punishment. jalal talabani has stated that he will not sign the order for tariq aziz’s execution, and we welcome that sign. it should be part of a society based on the rule of law, in which the human rights of all citizens are respected, and the eu is ready to help the iraqi government develop in that direction and ensure the just accountability of human rights perpetrators. the stability of iraq is fragile and may well be disturbed by state-endorsed executions. signing and ratifying the second optional protocol to the international covenant on civil and political rights, as well as protocol 13 to the convention on human rights and fundamental freedoms would help to solidify iraq’s stance against human rights violations. it would also be a welcome step towards its inclusion in the international community.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). but in iraq, standing up for your christian faith has almost become a testament to extraordinary courage. we condemn today, of course, the horrible attack of sunday 31 october, but it has been followed by new attacks, which have also killed people; two more brothers in the city of mosul last monday. mr belder has mentioned the figures in relation to the shrinking group of iraqi christians still in iraq, of whom there are at least 100,000 refugees in their own country. it seems to be a deliberate strategy by some groups to drive out this population. we cannot, as the eu, commissioner, stand by and watch. first of all, the union will of course have to appeal to and support the iraqi authorities, who are unfortunately still weak, to take action. but i would like to go one step further and indeed, as mr mauro says, to make a priority of the partnership agreement with iraq, which is now being discussed, a safe environment for iraqi christians in iraq. as vice-chairman of the delegation for relations with iraq, i will continue to monitor this and i would like to hear the commission's views on this.
author. − madam president, culture and cultural expressions underpin people’s values and identity. in the words of aristotle, it is not about outward appearance but about inward significance. culture, when used as a tool to impose values and to wash out diversity and freedom of expression, is like a weapon. it is therefore a very troubling development that mandarin chinese has been introduced as the main language of education and official documents for tibetans. if china intends to wash out the tibetan culture this way, it is acting against its own stated intentions of harmonious relations among the countless cultures, ethnicities and identities the country knows. the chinese authorities should also allow access to tibet by foreign media without the need for special permits and allow uncensored communications and access to information – also on the internet – throughout the entire country. not only economic development but also cultural diversity and respect for human rights contribute equally to wealth. the eu should consistently prioritise human rights, especially for ethnic and cultural minorities, in its relations with china.
author. − madam president, on 13 november, less than a week after the disputed national elections had been held, aung san suu kyi was released from house arrest after spending 15 of the last 21 years effectively imprisoned for her pro-democracy thoughts. as an iranian woman said in the movie the green wave, after being released from evin prison in tehran: ‘the moment i stepped outside i realised i had just moved from a small prison to a bigger one: that prison is called iran.’ people should not live in small or big prisons for their thoughts. the eu will see to and encourage further freedoms for all burmese citizens and remains concerned about aung san suu kyi’s well-being and safety, as she is being kept under surveillance by state security services. the welcome move of her release needs to be reflected in further expansions of freedoms to all citizens, which are systematically curbed through the 2008 constitution and the military junta. elections such as those which took place in burma this month, even if held in a climate of fear and repression, are often used by regimes to claim legitimacy and to suggest that a democracy is in place. however, any government derives its legitimacy from providing for the well-being of its citizens, and democracy is always more than ‘one man, one vote’. it is enshrined in democratic institutions, good governance, the rule of law and respect for human rights.
mr president, last month the european commission rightly sent a warning letter to the governments of serbia and macedonia about the alarming increase in asylum applications from these two countries. it is particularly regrettable, mr president, that this parliament has decided to grant visa-free travel to albania and bosnia in the same month. naturally, we will wait until the first warning letter is sent to one of these two countries. mr president, it should never have happened, but it's not too late. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the visa-free regime is not applied to all citizens of the union. the commission must call the ambassadors of serbia and macedonia to account and demand action. if it were up to me, we would have to withdraw that visa exemption today, but the commission is unlikely to be in favour of that, so i would like to hear from this commission that it dares to propose this as a consequence of the continuing misconduct of those balkan countries. serbia and macedonia are the forerunners of bosnia and albania. it is time and it is right to send a clear signal to these balkan countries.
mr president, it is true that after the introduction of visa-free travel, a number of misguided serbs and macedonians have applied for asylum in belgium, sweden and germany. i support the christian democrats in their call for better information for the people of the balkans, but there is more to it. firstly, there are more people who do not understand what visa-free travel actually means. i have heard dutch parliamentarians, and not even those of the pvv, seriously say that we are now going to have hordes of asylum seekers who are going to come and take our jobs, just like the poles. totally ridiculous, but also harmful. it's playing on the fear and ignorance of the citizens. secondly, the asylum seekers were almost exclusively ethnic minorities. if there is anything to be said to serbia and macedonia, it is that they must do much more to improve the position of these ethnic minorities. so yes, let us inform the people of the balkans well, but let us also inform eu citizens, eu parliamentarians and eu ministers better about what visa-free travel actually means.
i would like to thank mrs mathieu, on behalf of the ppe group, for taking the lead on a matter which has been in play for many years. if i am correct, mrs malmström, there was a proposal for a directive on the conditions of residence for work in the european union for third country nationals as far back as 2001. and that proposal was withdrawn in 2006, and then in 2007 this proposal came up with this unique procedure for third-country nationals entering the eu to work. residence and work permits are then combined in one case. the proposal now before us - and i do not entirely agree with mr cercas - states that third country nationals holding a single permit have social rights which are in fact the same for everyone. the debate, and i thank mr cercas, because i like to debate with him, was very heated in the committee on social affairs on two points. first of all, the scope, where - and i agree with this - posted workers cannot be eligible for a single permit. this is described in article 3 (2) (b) of directive 96/71/ec, the posting of workers directive. i believe that the social position of thirdcountry nationals on secondment is and was adequately described in that directive. what i thought and think is important is that a level playing field is created, that loan workers are not allowed to be cheaper than regular workers. i wonder, however, whether not mentioning the secondment directive could not get us into trouble in the future. the second point, mr president, which i myself had great difficulty with and which has now been modified by my amendment, is the principle of breaking down the principle of equal treatment. i was and am of the opinion that the principle laid down in regulation (ec) no 883 must also be the basis for this single permit. i think that the compromise now reached by the council is a good compromise, mr president, because it guarantees equal rights and equal treatment.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, first of all i would like to start with a little point of order: i note that for such an important debate our partner in the negotiations, the council, is absent. i find that unacceptable. it is not the first time and i request the presidency of this house to write to the council and complain about this. (applause)then i would like to go on and, like the others, congratulate mrs mathieu for doing a very good job on a very difficult, complex and sensitive dossier. my group, the alde group, will accept its responsibility and we too want to arrive at an agreement because we realise that it is very important. however, we do not do so with great joy because, as i think has been expressed in different ways by all the groups in this house and by the commission, this proposal does not nearly as far as is necessary. my group will stick to its position on the additional documents because, if we allow member states to require additional documents, then that defeats the whole purpose of the single permit; either you have a single permit or you do not but, if you have a single permit, there are no additional documents. on the correlation tables, for the sake of arriving at an agreement, my group will not vote for the insertion of correlation tables. but i have to say – this is a personal remark – that i find this a shameful red line by the member states because, if the member states have the intention of transposing the directive and being transparent about it, they should – of their own free will – insert correlation tables. finally, in 1999 in tampere the member states came out with this grand statement that they wanted a common asylum and immigration policy. well, how much progress have we made to date? hardly any. it is very clear that the member states do not want a common immigration policy.
president, my party has always made it clear that we are against a european asylum and immigration policy. in the netherlands we now have a fantastic government which would have been more able than it is now to carry out the will of the people in these areas in the field of asylum and immigration, but it is a fait accompli. nevertheless, my party, the party for freedom, will always seek to return these powers to the member states. mr president, what is of course important in the meantime is to limit the damage and that is not what this report is trying to achieve: the new application procedure actually makes it easier for people to enter the european union, rather than harder. mr president, only an elitist political class, far removed from the citizen, can succeed in abandoning the citizen who has to deal daily with the disastrous mass immigration of non-western immigrants. mr president, since i was elected by dutch people and not by fortune-seekers who want to taste the pleasures of the west but not the judeo-christian values, i shall vote against this report.
i have already called in with my blue card two or three times to ask a number of questions. in this debate i have the impression that for a number of months i have not been involved in the social aspect of the matter before us. what we are dealing with here - and i say this again to all my colleagues - is an amendment of mine to ensure that everyone who enters the member states on that one permit, that residence and work permit, is treated equally. that's a sure thing. how can you tell me that's not guaranteed? i have also read the press releases and i have the feeling that we are engaged in vote-making. we cannot give that for seasonal workers either, and i think you have a proposal for that. as regards secondment, it is not possible to set up a company in a third country and then transfer workers there under poor conditions. mr president, that is not true!
last week we were in athens with the committee on civil liberties and i spoke to mamuth. mamuth is 26 years old and from eritrea, he entered the european union through greece, travelled through to the netherlands because he wanted to be there, because he had contacts there, and was sent back to greece. mamuth said that if he finally gets his refugee status in greece, he won't be able to travel freely and it will take forever before he gets greek citizenship in greece. it is for boys like mamuth who have a right to a new existence, not again through national borders, that i am glad that this european parliament is now going to change that and that the rapporteur claude moraes has managed to put this first step in our asylum packages. it would also be for mamuth, who would rather live in the netherlands, to have decent correlation schemes, because this young mamuth has the right to see how things are implemented in greece, or in the netherlands, or wherever he would like to build his existence. thank you, mr. moraes, thank you for your cooperation, and let's see how fast this goes for mamuth.
mr president, it is clear that the lisbon treaty takes a different view of fundamental rights than we were used to. first of all, of course, by the accession of the european union to the echr, which created a strange situation of competing courts. it is still unclear exactly how that will develop. i am afraid that with the union's accession to the echr we have entered a european legal minefield. can the commissioner comment on that? the second point, mr president, is the incorporation of the charter of fundamental rights into european law. i have a specific question to the commissioner about a judgment handed down by the european court of justice on 9 november 2010. the cases in question are joined cases c 92/09 and c 93/09 volker and hartmut eifert. in short, these cases were about the right to privacy versus the right to transparency of european subsidies. in these judgments, the court has held that the right to privacy is above the general european interest in transparency. this statement surprises me very much and i would like to know what the european commissioner thinks about this case in the context of the incorporation of the fundamental rights of the charter into existing and future eu legislation.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). if the restraining order that her stalker has in the netherlands does not travel with her to spain, she will be a wild beast there, and her children will be too, if the spanish authorities do not recognize or enforce that same restraining order. spain does, however. this protection also applies to the freedom fighters. they must be able to speak in other european countries without the threat to them being in the audience. the european protection order is a wonderful initiative that has the support of the dutch government. with the new coalition , their position has unfortunately been turned 180 degrees: women, men and children who live in fear every day are being left behind. it just can't be that someone's safety stops at the border. for the sake of a hundred thousand people, i am now saying yes to the european protection order. i expect all governments, including those of my own country, to do everything possible to strengthen the security, protection and freedom of citizens so that all people can live in freedom and security.
i would like to thank mrs hedh and mrs bauer for their hard work as co-rapporteurs. this directive concerns the prosecution, prevention and protection of trafficking in human beings. the green group would like to see more robust action, particularly in the area of the protection of victims of trafficking in human beings. i am referring in particular to the right to reside in a country after being traded and perhaps rescued. how do we ensure that a victim can really build a new life? now, that is not sufficiently regulated in this directive; it is only a form of temporary residence permit, after which you do not know whether you will be returned to the place from which you were traded. we therefore hope that the directive will be revised to deal with these matters. we hope that we will then be able to provide real help to victims. another aspect that is heating up the minds of this house is whether or not to criminalize those who use the services of a trafficked person. the majority of the green group nevertheless remains of the opinion that if you make it a criminal offence, you are further embarrassing the trafficked person, because his or her activity becomes completely illegal. i am also glad to see that this directive leaves the member states free to choose, but i would ask any member state that joins in: how do we empower the victim?
the basis for many of the developments of our time was laid hundreds of years ago. i am thinking of the industrial revolution, the advent of representative democracy and the abolition of slavery. the current fight against human trafficking is a continuation of the fight that william wilberforce once started. unfortunately, human trafficking is one of the biggest hidden problems in the european union. it damages the fundamental rights of people and the foundations of our democracy. that is why i fully support the report before us. i understand, however, that the proposed standards of punishment for repeat offenders will unfortunately remain low. the current proposal does not call for a higher penalty standard if a trafficker is arrested more often. i'm sorry to hear that. i am in favour of an approach whereby a trader who is caught for a second or third offence should be liable to a life sentence.
in writing. − although i agreed with the majority of the gomes report, i have voted against it as it focuses too much on the eu coordinating civil-military cooperation. military competences should remain with the member states and not with the eu and the commission. i have no problem with member states cooperating on an equal level in the case of a cbrn event – and in the case of an environmental disaster resulting from such an incident, it is crucial – but i do have a huge problem with this report potentially opening the door for militarisation of the eu.
in writing. − explanation of vote on the gomes report ‘strengthening chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear security in the european union – an eu cbrn action plan’ (a7-0349/2010). although i agreed with the majority of the gomes report, i have voted against it as it focuses too much on the eu coordinating civil-military cooperation. military competences should remain with the member states and not with the eu and the commission. i have no problem with member states cooperating on an equal level in the case of a cbrn event – and in the case of an environmental disaster resulting from such an incident, it is crucial – but i do have a huge problem with this report potentially opening the door for militarisation of the eu.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of amendments 30, 34, 65, 103, 109 and 114 because although i fully support the un international convention on the protection of the rights of all migrant workers and members of their families, i believe that regulation of access to labour markets, social security schemes and public housing are matters to be regulated by the member states which should not be regulated at community level. by ratifying the abovementioned un convention, member states have pledged to implement it in their domestic systems without ceding any powers in that regard to the union.
mr president, this morning i received an invitation by e-mail from the secretariat of the committee on budgets to come to a cocktail party. the european parliament's ability to increase the 2011 budget was to be celebrated. if it had been up to this parliament and the commission, much more money would have been taken out of the pockets of the citizens. european taxes, reason for a cocktail! no more vetoes for the member states on the budget: all the more reason for a cocktail! president, dancing on the grave of a citizen is what i call it! well, at least there's something to celebrate. the increase in the budget has been limited by the heavy pressure exerted by the member states. unfortunately, it is still not a reduction, as the pvv would like, but it is far from being an increase as much as this parliament would like. there will be no european taxation, to the anger of liberals, socialists and christian democrats, and the member states will retain their right of veto. so if i raise my glass today, it is to those brave, stubborn member states, like the netherlands, who have not agreed to the demands of this parliament. long live the member states, long live the citizens!
the fact that some member states are opposed to increasing the 2011 budget and that this will lead to fewer projects is what you call 'dangerous'. do you take into account the possibility that these member states do not see the need for these european projects?
at the end of the budgetary procedure, the council and the commission made political declarations, particularly with regard to the involvement of the european parliament in the long-term financing of the european union. i have two questions to add to that. the first question is: how will the council and the commission put this cooperation into practice? will the european parliament take part in the decision-making process? then i'll hold my heart. the second question concerns the european tax. the european commission intends to present a proposal for the financing of the european union for the period 2014-2020 in june 2011. my question is: is an eu tax included? this is a sharp increase on the list of possible charges which the european commission launched in october. if it is a levy on the financial sector, i think the proceeds should certainly go to the member states, because they had to bail out the banks in the end. finally, mr president, i fully support the position taken by the dutch and british governments in this conflict.
mr president, there are many people here who speak with a double tongue about the budget. mr schulz is constantly annoyed at the council and he always makes that loud. mr verhofstadt has only a limited vocabulary: european bonds and european taxes. mr daul even suggested that the netherlands could leave the european union. muscular language, but very one-sided. however, when i proposed that the ep's own budget be dealt with, the gentlemen and their groups did not give a damn. my proposal that members should be accountable and transparent about their monthly general expenses was turned down. i didn't get any help with the luxury car fleet here. the european parliament has also been asked to make a statement on the situation in the middle east. so a counter-vote would be very appropriate. but my group and my country have prevented worse. that's why i'm holding back. i think that a 2.9% increase in votes is totally inappropriate at this time!
mr president, i thank the commissioner and the belgian presidency for their success in cancún, because in cancún we were able to applaud the copenhagen trauma away. i was also applauding this trauma away because now we can finally look ahead. we can look forward again and we can look at what we need to achieve in durban. let us be honest: the most sensitive issues – the second commitment period, kyoto, financing, the mitigation targets – are still on the table. we have a crucial year in front of us ahead of durban. let us be clear. china and the us are still there and those two big blocs are still not moving ahead very quickly. that is what we need in durban. so i have a very simple question for the commissioner. what is the eu concretely going to do to make sure that we get other global partners like brazil and india on board with the europeans to strive for an ambitious deal in durban? speaking with one voice is very good, but now we have to get our proactive diplomacy in place.
(without a microphone)... to ask that question, and now we are actually simply being taken off the agenda. is this a normal course of action? could you not have made that known earlier or intervened so that we could all be affected?
first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr bendtsen, for the report he has drawn up, which sets out very well the essence of what needs to be done here. but let us put this in perspective. everyone knows that by 2050 europe must have reduced either 80%, or as we say 95%, of its greenhouse gases. that's an incredible task. and where's the biggest profit? the biggest gain is made by using even less energy. we have to import less, substitute less, develop fewer alternatives, and it is simply the cheapest! it is therefore absurd that we already know that europe is not going to achieve the energy saving objective and that we are focusing on achieving reduction targets and renewable energy, especially from the commission. but the goal of saving energy, of using less energy, we are not going to achieve that. and there's so much to learn from everything around us. for example, the built environment. this uses about 40 percent of our energy, 99 percent of which is existing buildings. they need to be renovated to be more energy efficient. the rate in europe right now is 1.4 percent a year, which means it will take us more than 60 years to replace that entire built environment. so we are in 2070 when we have targets for 2050! that 's the point . we must make sure that we are making much faster profits in, for example, the built environment. that is why an amendment has been tabled for a european building initiative. it saves everybody money, it's the cheaper options, we prepare for the future, and -- most importantly -- it saves people money. they have to spend less energy. and that's an argument i hear so little. it's the people who end up paying less for energy use. that's what it's supposed to be about!
commissioner, i would be very happy to comment on this report. it is an excellent report because it is a report which achieves several things at once: environmental objectives, co2 reduction, but also in terms of our production and the other objectives to remain competitive. it helps the environment and it helps the wallet. the commissioner also spoke of his ambition to come up with an action plan quickly. three points, though: the first concerns those national energy efficiency action plans. there is still a lot of room for improvement and the european commission must look at it critically. the commissioner indicated that he would work in two phases. the first stage is consultation with some urge and possibly in a second stage urge. i have also stressed this with the commissioner and in amendments, and i am glad that this is now being emphasized. i have only one question for the commissioner: do you have the tools to move on when you need to get to that urge phase? would you give an analysis of that, now or soon, or in your action plan? the second point concerns regional policy. mr swoboda has also spoken about this. we can do a lot with those funds. the money that is available is not even being used for energy efficiency in most countries. and that is why i have tabled an amendment to article 81 to clarify that text. it is not always about more money, it is also about making good use of existing resources. and a third point - and i agree with mr swoboda on this too - is that we must involve citizens, local authorities and businesses more in this energy saving, such as the labels, the agreement with the mayors, the agreements with industry. in my country, the netherlands, the agreement with industry alone has brought about 2% efficiency improvements per year. that's as concrete as it gets! thank you, good luck, and thanks to the rapporteur!
in this time of crisis, we must not lose sight of the fact that the euro has brought us a great deal of prosperity, employment and stability over the past decade. that is why the euro is worth more than defending vigorously. but that requires a decisive european summit and much, much more unanimity. that's too much to ask. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in this debate, mr president, the magic word seems to be eurobonds, as if it makes the problems of the national debt disappear like snow in the sun! but those in this house who are calling for eurobonds must also realise that this entails heavy obligations and far-reaching budgetary discipline which goes far beyond the proposals now before us to strengthen the stability pact. president trichet said "a fiscal union". are those in this house who are calling for eurobonds prepared to do so? i have my doubts about that. we must put our energies into the proposals now before us to strengthen the foundation under the euro. that is urgent and that is what we are working hard on in this house. a more rule-based approach, also in the preventive arm of the stability pact, because prevention is better than cure. and to make member states much more co-responsible, not only for the benefits but also for the obligations and the commitment that comes from the stability pact.
mr president, i am not sure about this citizens' initiative either. it is of course sympathetic to involve the citizens more in decision-making, although it would have been better to give the same citizens a referendum on the treaty of lisbon. to speak of a dialogue with the citizen in a treaty that has been pushed down the throat of the citizen is, in my view, both offensive and ironic. i am afraid, mr president, that the citizens' initiative will prove to be a huge sham. the commission has the primacy to reject proposals. it is clear that only the puppets of the left-wing euro-philist elite who clearly represent a pro-european position will be accepted. or can the commissioner take that worry away from me? let us say that citizens' initiatives are being launched to stop the negotiations with turkey, or to dissolve this parliament - which would be fantastic, of course. will the commission take it seriously? i'd like a response. the citizens' trust in the european union is already at an all-time low. i suspect that this citizens' initiative will bring little change in that regard, and i am not worried about that, because the more people who realise the bankruptcy of this european union, the better.
i also congratulate everyone, and especially the citizen; i look forward to a constructive cooperation. it is true that we must be careful to keep the threshold low, and that means that everyone must be able to take part in a citizens' initiative. it is therefore regrettable that young people under 18 are excluded from this, because we are so keen to involve them in politics. it is therefore regrettable that it is left to the member states to decide whether or not to open up online. it is not possible that we are still working with paper today, and it is precisely online openness that has proved to be a very effective means of organizing people both politically and in terms of interests. what are our expectations of what exactly we can do with that citizens' initiative? i do think that the commission should be able to say at a very early stage whether certain proposals, such as those being made here, for example to abolish parliament, are really a matter for a citizens' initiative or not. what can you do with it? who is going to be drafting things and when can we expect a bill? we in politics live in a glass house. people can look in, and people can now come in and participate. i look forward to a constructive cooperation.
in writing. − the böge report on the use of the flexibility instrument can’t count on my support. the european commission’s proposal lacks an appropriate justification as regards the question of why this additional funding is necessary. besides, i am in general very critical of the use of the flexibility instrument. it is desirable to decrease other budget lines to enable the financing of budget lines for which justified additional funding needs emerge.
in writing. − although i fully support the european citizen's initiative, i voted against the final legislative resolution because i am disappointed with how little was ultimately achieved with this promising tool. in particular, i do not agree with the provision requesting signatories in the majority of member states to give their personal id numbers. i am also against the restriction of participation in the eci to eu citizens only.
our commitment to respect for fundamental rights cannot be achieved without personal involvement, and this is clearly encouraged by the interesting report by mrs andrikienė. for me, that's specifically the "freedom of religion" part. i would like to mention three current violations of the fundamental right to freedom of religion, in order to encourage the council and the commission, in the person of the high representative, to give these and all other persecuted citizens a voice and thus a face in diplomatic relations. three things are urgent to me: dr. fan yafeng, a prominent christian human rights lawyer and beijing house church pastor, who has been under house arrest since november 1, 2010, and has been suffering from the chicanes and machinations of the chinese security service for weeks. european action point dr. fan's house arrest is lifted. 2. aisha bibi, pakistani christian, sentenced to death under the blasphemy laws of this country on a highly dubious charge. in a personal conversation in san francisco recently, the pakistani foreign minister refused to go beyond a close police investigation in the event of charges under the blasphemy laws. european action point release of aisha bibi and the abolition of the blasphemy laws in pakistan. 3. yusuf al-qaradawi, a domestic servant in iran, sentenced to death for "apostasy". european action point the european union is also calling for the release of this cleric and the end of the permanent state surveillance of house churches in the islamic republic. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
madam president, we are celebrating a significant day with the award of the sakharov prize today, but we have a lot more work to do than that. i would like to highlight a few elements from this comprehensive and well-drafted report. there is the necessity to fight for justice over impunity, whether through the icc or otherwise. it is not only important to bring perpetrators to justice, because this is often a long-term process, but in the meantime, for those who fear that violations of human rights are unnoticed or in fact tolerated by liberal democracies, starting to hold individual human rights violators accountable is an acknowledgement of the suffering and of our credibility in the eu. in this report we ask for sanctions on russian officials responsible for the death of mr magnitsky and for iranian officials involved in the systematic censorship, rape, crackdown and executions of citizens who have done nothing other than act according to their inalienable and indeed universal human rights.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons and their families moving within the community (com (97) 0406 - c4-0173/97). i am thinking of south america and eastern europe, where this is linked to democratization and prosperity. unfortunately, in countries where islam is dominant, progress has not been seen, quite the opposite. in egypt, iraq, iran, pakistan, somalia and other such lands, christians and other religious minorities are increasingly being oppressed. no means are left unused by the extremists in those countries. accused of blasphemy, banned from converting to christianity, daily harassment, murder, it all happens. it is often directed against communities that have been living in these countries for much longer than those muslims. four out of five people who are persecuted for their faith are christians, and the situation in muslim countries is the most serious. i call on the european union and its member states to do more to combat this religious persecution, and i ask you specifically, mrs ashton, what are you going to do about it in your policy?
as rapporteur for the european union's position on iran, my interest in the resolution on afghanistan is focused on the not to be underestimated role played by the islamic republic on the afghan battlefield. the resolution, however, only very briefly and, in my view, unrealistically mentions this important iranian influence. in the meantime, the crucial question remains: how does the european union assess the actual influence of iran in afghanistan and what are the political consequences of this? i would therefore like to put three specific questions to the high representative, and i can imagine, madam high representative, that you will answer them in writing. i'd rather have concrete answers myself. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. do you share the official afghan observations that iran is trying to smuggle foreign terrorists into the country under the guise of these deportations? the third. what assistance is the european union providing to the afghan authorities in the reception of masses of refugees from iran, in order to prevent tehran from exploiting this serious humanitarian problem politically, instrumentalising it to make kabul dependent and subject it to political pressure?
madam president, i would like to join lady ashton in paying tribute to richard holbrooke. i admired him for dayton, met him once for a fascinating dinner in brussels and was very much impressed by him. een strategie die vooral militair van aard is kan niet succesvol zijn in afghanistan. van 20.000 soldaten in 2001 naar 150.000 nu, en de onveiligheid is gegroeid. meer burgerslachtoffers, meer dode soldaten en een coalitieleger dat, met excuses aan collega juvin, nu werkelijk als bezettingsmacht wordt gezien door meer en meer afghanen. de strategie moet zich richten op de opbouw van het land, lokaal bestuur, de rechterlijke macht, onderwijs, gezondheid, ook voor vrouwen, rurale ontwikkeling, maar zonder opium. de coalitie moet zijn eigen principes serieus nemen. nu klinken er mooie woorden over corruptiebestrijding en er gebeurt niets tegen de corruptie in en rond het presidentieel paleis. dat desillusioneert de afghanen en dat moet veranderen. de anticorruptietak van de afghaanse politie moet versterkt worden door de eu, die aan het werk moet gaan met de openbare aanklagers. afghanistan kan niet zonder betrouwbaar bestuur.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. after all, as has already been said, 30% of eggs in 2012 are expected to be outside the ban on battery laying that we agreed in 1999. commissioner, the calculation is actually very simple. it costs a farmer 8 to 13 percent more to produce such an animal-friendly egg without a battery. and the average consumer, whether we like it or not, is still buying cheap and is only willing to pay 3 to 4% more for such an animal-friendly egg. so the competitive disadvantage that this creates seems to me to be quite clear. and the question is: what will you, the european commission, do to ensure that farmers who have complied with the rules and invested in alternatives do not suffer the consequences of their colleagues who are lagging behind? and please do not come to me now, commissioner, with the excuse that the member states are responsible for implementation and control. you are the guardian of the treaties, so our eyes are on you. and then i feel very sorry that we are still talking about data and getting a better picture, next year, it will be too late! what are we gonna do? we need to increase pressure! in our resolution we naturally demand, among other things, the retention of the cage ban, more inspections, the national action plans that must finally be put in place and an export ban on eggs which have not been produced in accordance with the rules. commission, you're on the move! and if you do nothing, not only will the bona fide chicken farmers suffer, but i fear for your own credibility and that of all european animal welfare rules, and i think we all want to prevent that.
mr president, i know it is quite unorthodox to take the floor after the commissioner has spoken. i am very happy with what the commissioner has said. however, the conclusion that we are divided in this house on this issue is not justified. i would respectfully ask the commissioner to look at the result of the final vote before judging whether this house is divided on this issue or not.
mr president, parliament is once again taking the well-known side in this debate. nato in america is screwing up in afghanistan and the european union must act as the guardian angel and take the initiative in this matter. the standard response from many in this house: we need more eu and then everything will be fine! but this message, madam president, gets a lot worse when you read paragraph 63 of the report. it advises that iran be brought in to help resolve the problems in afghanistan. mr president, i have had to read it three times, but it really says, "involve iran"! i've rarely read such a strange proposal. this is the same as casting out the devil with beelzebub. i therefore voted against this report.
author. − mr president, the practice of caning – the hitting of a person with a cane – is a form of corporal punishment that is often applied in malaysia and this is a reason for concern, because tens of thousands of people are subject to this kind of punishment, particularly immigrants, and the list of offences that can lead to caning is growing. malaysia is thus violating its commitment to resolution 8/8 of the un human rights council, which states that corporal punishment can be tantamount to torture. the legal process leading to this form of punishment is often lacking and immigrants are not being informed about the charges against them, or are being denied the right of access to legal counsel. we welcome the outspoken call by the malaysian bar association – which represents 8 000 lawyers – for the abolition of caning. the european parliament calls on the malaysian authorities to enact a moratorium on caning and all other forms of corporal punishment, while working on the abolishment of this law in letter and in practice. the human rights commission of malaysia and the malaysian law reform committee should make adequate recommendations to the government concerning the abolition of corporal punishment laws.
author. − mr president, the so-called anti-homosexuality bill before the ugandan parliament provides for the punishment of homosexual acts by imprisonment for terms ranging from seven years to life, or even the death penalty. the european parliament strongly condemns this bill and, in so doing, we are not imposing european values on other states, as some have suggested in an attempt to avoid responsibility for human rights violations and responsibility for protecting citizens from being attacked on the basis of their sexual orientation. the real threat and the climate of fear were underlined in the october and november issues of rolling stone, a local newspaper, which listed the names and personal details of people alleged to be homosexual, inciting readers to harm or hang them. several people were consequently attacked. in fact, homosexuality is legal in only 13 african countries and it is a criminal offence in 38 others. in mauritania, sudan and northern nigeria it is punishable by death. the ugandan authorities are obliged, in accordance with the cotonou agreement, to observe international and human rights, and the commission, the council of the european union and the external action service should also make full use of the toolkit for promoting and protecting the enjoyment of human rights by all lgbt people.
author. − mr president, about 250 eritrean migrants are believed to be held hostage in the sinai desert and inhumane treatment and rape are reported while these people await a ransom that needs to be paid to human traffickers for their release. recent events are part of a network smuggling sub-saharan migrants through egypt to israel that has been operating in the sinai since 2007. the egyptian authorities are making welcome efforts to investigate the information provided by the unhcr. diplomatic procedures with the egyptian authorities should be stepped up by the un high commissioner for refugees to eliminate the trafficking networks and prevent people from being smuggled. at the same time, egypt should improve the treatment of refugees according to international standards. this means that, during the justified defence of borders, no excessive or even lethal force should be used against immigrants or refugees, and this advice is something that we might also give ourselves in the eu once in a while.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. the resolutions as they stand are a weak copy of what we started with at the beginning of the week. we're basically saying now: "it is bad". and we point to the fact that eritrean refugees are being held hostage in the sinai. we are not prepared to talk about the links between italy and libya and the closing of the whole of europe to migrants, which is forcing political refugees to move elsewhere. they must now tread roads we must tread even more dangerous than before. anyone who leaves eritrea is automatically a political refugee, because you can't go back and your family is at risk. that we in this parliament are not prepared to say: if europe wants to shield itself from migrants if necessary, it will have to open its embassies around eritrea, so that people can easily apply for asylum. that was not possible in this resolution. and when i hear the ppe group talking about what is needed in egypt, i think: what do we have to do now and why do we not want to admit that people are at risk here because we do not want to take responsibility. we've been shutting people out, and in doing so, we've put lives at risk.
