i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 17 december 2009.
it is with great sadness that i have to inform you that mrs. juarez boal, deputy director of the european union mission in haiti is still missing. the search for ms. juarez boal is ongoing. she also previously worked in the european parliament. today, our thoughts are with the people of haiti, who have been struck by the great tragedy of the earthquake. the individual european countries, as well as the eu as a whole, have declared a significant financial contribution and the deployment of 150 police officers in haiti as part of the european gendarmerie. the european commission has also sent teams from the eu countries to the region. this is the worst disaster in the history of haiti, one of the worst disasters in the history of mankind. many of our fellow citizens, european citizens, were also killed there, and many are still missing. i would like to ask you to observe a moment of silence in honor of the victims of this unimaginable disaster. i'm going to ask you to stand up. i was also very sad to hear of the execution of akmal shaikh, a british citizen who was executed in china. he is one of nearly 7,000 people executed in this country each year. he is also the first european union citizen to be executed in china since 1951. the european parliament condemns and has always condemned the use of the death penalty and is continuing its efforts to promote a moratorium on its use. yesterday, the first round of the presidential election took place in ukraine. our colleagues are watching this election, they were there yesterday. we don't have any official information on the election yet. our colleagues haven't given us any official information, but we're expecting them any minute. we expect it to be a fair election and that the second round, which will be held in early february, will be the same. spain took over the presidency of the council of the european union on 1 january. i believe that under the new treaty and in cooperation with the new president of the council, it will be a success and achieve its objectives. we have a meeting with prime minister zapatero, and we're going to talk about the trio program, not just spain, but belgium and hungary. ladies and gentlemen, in closing, may i offer you my warmest wishes for prosperity and success in the new year of 2010. may the beginning of this new decade be an inspiration to all of us to work hard for our citizens. as i said last week in brussels, a new year, a new treaty, a new era in the european union. our parliament has a special responsibility for the future of the european union. we all know that.
the final draft agenda, drawn up in accordance with rule 137 of the rules of procedure, was distributed by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 14 january 2009. the following changes are proposed: tuesday: i received a request from the socialist and democrats group for a debate on haiti to set a deadline for the tabling of draft resolutions to be voted on during the first session in february.
the next item on the agenda is a one-minute speech on a major political issue.
thank you for your words. i'd like to have a memo sent to my e-mail address so i know exactly what the case is.
ms auken, if i could ask you to send me some brief information on the matter, so that i can do that in the very near future.
mr. chairman, please! a few weeks ago the european commission rejected the polish government's request for aid for the restructuring of tobacco farms. this decision means the collapse of some 15 000 small family-run tobacco farms, mainly in the south-east of poland, which is one of the poorest areas in the european union. i do not know the reasons for the commission's decision, but even if it was the result of some formal errors by the polish government, it should not be lost in bureaucratic procedures of living people and their fates. i therefore ask the european commission to look again at this matter and to consider the polish government's request in the interests of poor farmers.
mr. chairman, please! you congratulated us on the adoption of the treaty of lisbon. this is very important. today, when haiti is in such dire need of our help, we are once again reminded of the importance of the european union functioning more efficiently. we cannot pretend not to notice how poor the public debate on the treaty has been in many member states. knowledge is very weak and the demagogic accusations of the opponents of the treaty and of a strong european union often go unanswered. the myths about the treaty are still alive in the public mind. today, with the treaty of lisbon in force, we have a great opportunity to launch an information campaign on the treaty and the union. we must not let this opportunity pass us by, let us not miss this moment. i therefore ask the bodies responsible for public communication in the european union to use this moment of transition to launch an effective information campaign, to raise awareness, to create a european identity.
i should like to explain that i am also taking into account whether members spoke during the one-minute speeches at the last part-session or two part-sessions ago: this has also been taken into account. however, since the alde group has probably not had enough speeches, the last speaker is mr gallagher.
thank you for coming. ladies and gentlemen, the hearing is now in session. i'd like to invite you to join us. i gave 32 speakers the floor today. please remember to register in advance. i received a list of 72 people and i voted in the exact order in which you came forward. please report as soon as possible for your next hearing, which is in a month.
sir, i'm trying to explain to you that i didn't give a voice to the people who spoke a month ago. check the list. i would ask you to check the list: the members who spoke a month ago have not been taken into account. even those who spoke out two months ago had a lower chance. i'm asking you to look into that. why don't you come to my office and we'll check it out together? i'm not afraid of this test.
mr. president, madam president, i have to go. we hear voices from all sides of the room today, and they all share one thing, one motive: the european union's response, the political response, was not enough, it was not well coordinated. and i think that's where we have to thank the charities for responding so spontaneously and as reliably as they always have. and we should be thinking about what we can do better. actually, i have a question for president ashton: this is the first such situation you have encountered in your office. what's the main takeaway from this event, from the mistakes that we're all talking about? what's the most important thing you can change in the future? i think that's the most important thing we should be thinking about, and that's very much our role.
mr. chairman, please! i want to join mr. juvénal's voice in saying that humanitarian aid is poorly coordinated. i don't want to talk about humanitarian aid only, but what is called technical aid or structural aid or development aid. this disaster was unpredictable, but it was known that haiti was in a terrible state, and he was hit by this disaster. we've known for a long time how bad haiti is, how bad the structures are. we also know that if they had worked better, if we had organized our aid to haiti earlier, our technical cooperation, these structures would have worked better and as a result we could have used our aid better, we could have saved many thousands of lives. as the high representative, working in the council, will mrs ashton take concrete action with specific dates to coordinate technical cooperation between the different european countries so that the third countries we help actually benefit from it? will we have some exchange of best practice between countries with a lot of experience, where technical cooperation is working well, and countries that are just starting to use this technical cooperation? will there be a good, common, strong european policy, which will actually benefit third countries and which will not be used indiscriminately and forcibly when hundreds of thousands of people are suddenly in a tragic situation?
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! the reports coming in from haiti are shocking. it's one of the worst disasters we've ever seen. but we can learn some lessons now that may be helpful in the future. it is clear that the mechanisms for coordinating humanitarian aid are not optimal. aid to haitians could be more effective if humanitarian donors had better coordination tools. improving cooperation is not just a matter for the european union, as progress in this area requires constructive analysis and action by all relevant donors. in situations like haiti today, what matters is speed, relevance and flexibility. today is not the time to be debating who should control the airport in the capital of haiti, for example. this is important, of course, but decisions on specific solutions should be made at a later date. now we must do everything possible to focus on the most important goal - saving lives.
in writing. mr president, every day we hear the tragic news of the earthquake disaster in haiti. they are convinced that the country, in total chaos, left without support, will not be able to cope with the consequences of this terrible tragedy. it is the duty of the entire international community, including the european union, to provide humanitarian aid to the victims of this catastrophe, who have been deprived of the very basic means of subsistence. i therefore urge the relevant structures of the european union to take immediate and effective action to provide the necessary aid and support as soon as possible to deal with the effects of the earthquake in haiti.
mr president, the baroness! the internal situation in iran is deteriorating dramatically day by day, week by week. we are witnessing brutal violations of human rights, we are witnessing a terror that we have not seen for decades. an unprecedented wave of state repression is trying to suppress those who are fighting for democratic reforms in iran. in the fight against its citizens, the government also uses specially trained, armed militias of young basji men. the european parliament must condemn the excessive use of force by the government and the increasing violations of human rights. it is unacceptable to use the death penalty against the opposition, even under the pretext of moharebeh, images of god. the european union therefore needs a new approach to the situation in iran. the high representative of the european union, catherine ashton, should send a strong and clear message to the people of iran that we are committed to upholding human rights. the issue of nuclear weapons is of the utmost importance. but we should not, just to gain a tactical advantage in these negotiations, abandon the defence of fundamental values. we cannot, in our negotiations with iran, sideline the rule of law, freedom of speech or the right to information. these values cannot be considered as less relevant. i come from poland, where more than 20 years ago, in 1989, tyranny gave way to democracy. this was achieved through the non-violent action of the opposition solidarity and the peaceful dialogue between the rulers and the ruled. i don't see a better way for the people of iran right now.
mr. chairman, please! iran saw opposition protests late last year, the largest since the demonstrations after the june presidential election, which was won by the incumbent president. in clashes with security forces, eight people were killed, hundreds were injured, hundreds were detained. students supporting the opposition were attacked on campus, prompting a response from 88 university professors in a call to ayatollah ali khamenei to refrain from using violence against protesters. the situation in iran is a growing concern, also in the international arena. germany is considering sanctions against the government in tehran, whose chancellor, andrea merkel, has said iran has not responded to a western proposal for cooperation on halting its nuclear program. israel's prime minister has also called for tough international sanctions against iran, saying that a regime that is tyrannizing its own people could soon pose a threat to the entire world. while respecting the sovereignty of iran, it is necessary to clearly underline the obligation of the iranian authorities to respect human, political and civil rights and the fact that iran cannot, in exercising its rights to develop its nuclear programme, pose a threat to international security. the patience of the international community in its dialogue with tehran has now run its course. the world cannot be held hostage to the bellicose and provocative policies of the current political leadership in iran. the spanish presidency and mrs ashton, the head of diplomacy, should be talking to russia about this to include moscow in a joint policy of pressure on iran.
mr. chairman, please! madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. iran is one of the key countries on which the stability of world peace and parts of the middle east depends. of course, we must protect human rights and express our firm concern about the violations of the opposition's rights that have been taking place over the past few months. but i would say that above all the european union should be an active promoter of the anti-nuclear programme, because the nuclear armament of iran is a huge threat to the whole of the middle east. as we know, probably inspiring the coup in yemen, supporting hamas in gaza or al-qaeda in afghanistan are also sources of some of the iranian policies. so, first of all, there is a balance to be struck here, and i think that saudi arabia should play an important role in this as well. it seems that the dialogue and the involvement of commissioner ashton should be very dynamic in this area.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the eyes of the world have been on yemen recently, after al qaeda claimed responsibility for the, thankfully, failed christmas attempt to blow up an american airliner. but we've known for a long time that the ever-decreasing security in this country allows terrorist groups to find sanctuary where they can plan and organize their next operation. terrorism in this region had been spreading for many years before the memorable 9/11, just as al qaeda's attack on the american ship uss cole on october 12, 2000. yemen is a very important country, primarily because of its geographical location. we must be aware that the 26.5 kilometers of the bab al-mandab strait between yemen and djibouti transport almost 3.5 million barrels of oil a day, or 4% of the world's production. at the same time, it is a country with a very complicated internal situation. in addition to the growing power of al-qaeda, there is a serious shia rebellion in the north of the country in sada province and an outbreak of violence by secessionist movements in the south. if we add to this the negative effects of the global food crisis two years ago, the recent financial crisis, the depletion of oil supplies that generate three quarters of the country's income, and finally the increasingly severe water shortage, we have a picture of a failed country, ideal for al qaeda, which is looking for a new base in the face of the troubles in afghanistan. therefore, apart from military action, which, given the inaction and incompetence of local authorities, seems inevitable in one form or another, the international community, including the european union (and here the appeal to the commissioner), must above all be very active in the process of rebuilding state institutions.
madam president! yemen is the poorest country in the arab world. i was there the other day and i saw it with my own eyes. there is no doubt that poverty is the source, or at least the amplifier, of some of the many problems facing this country. unfortunately, in the global world, yemen's problems are becoming our problems as well. the internal conflicts we are talking about in the draft resolution and in this debate should be resolved by political means and the parties to the conflict should respect human rights and international humanitarian law. the european union should be committed to halting and countering the escalation of the current crisis. our development aid, if it is effective and spent wisely, can help to stabilise the political, economic and social situation. and disaster is near. we've talked about water shortages, we've talked about the depletion of oil resources, but there's also the problem of the abuse by 90% of yemenis of chata, a hallucinogenic drug that displaces other crops. yemen used to export coffee, for example, but now they can't because they're growing drugs. the actions that the yemeni government and the international community will take cannot be immediate, because these are structural problems, and even if we stop al-qaeda in yemen, the problems will return if we don't eliminate their causes.
madam president! i wanted to agree with the assessment of the situation that mrs. ashton presented. you are right that if we want to change the situation in yemen, we need action there, both humanitarian and perhaps military. if this range of actions is to be broad, it also requires coordination of action, because it is not the european union alone that is responsible for improving the situation in yemen. there are many such institutions. my question to you is this: do you not think that there should be better coordination between the un and the european union in humanitarian matters? in the military and intelligence dimension, we also need better cooperation with nato and with the services, and i am thinking in particular of the intelligence services of individual countries. these measures must be coordinated, since they would be much more effective.
madam president! yesterday the president of the european parliament would have offered his condolences to the families of the nearly 300 victims of the amsterdam-detroit flight. it's not an accident. it took this drama to make the world discover the problem of yemen as a new source of terrorism. we are helpless in the face of a situation like the one that happened in afghanistan. we are helpless in the face of what is happening in yemen today, and europe and this building are full of the voices of false human rights defenders who sympathized with the prisoners of guantanamo. these prisoners are out there, they're planning another attack, and people are gonna get killed again, and we're gonna say we're powerless. i want to support fully what mr zemke said. without military cooperation, without intelligence cooperation, without the cooperation of the institutions appointed to prosecute terrorism, we will be risking the health and lives of our citizens.
in writing. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in view of the recent and quite frequent problems of security and political and economic stability in yemen, i would like to express my concern as a member of the european parliament's delegation for relations with the arabian peninsula. yemen, the poorest arab state, has been a particular target for terrorist groups, which have exploited its weakness to launch terrorist attacks far beyond its borders. according to observers, yemen is at risk of fragmentation due to the shiite rebellion in the north, the separatist movement in the south and the terrorist activities of al-qaeda. i therefore call for a strengthening of bilateral relations with yemen and for the development of the most effective methods of improving the security and political situation, especially in the light of the special meeting on this subject to be held in london on 28 january by gordon brown.
madam president, mrs ashton, i have to go. despite the huge commitment of international forces and hundreds of casualties on the part of the international coalition, including 23 polish soldiers, the situation in iraq is still bad. this is a country where we are dealing with terrorist attacks, we are dealing with persecution of religious minorities, including christian minorities, and of course compared to what was a few years ago, there has been little progress, but we are still getting reports of terrorist attacks that are destabilizing not only iraq, but the entire middle east region. the goal of the bombers and the sponsors of international terrorism is to destabilize iraq. there is a lot of evidence that iran is behind the sponsors of terrorism. what is your opinion as the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on iran's role in interfering in iraq's affairs? i urge you to be more assertive and work with the united states to bring about solutions that will influence and put pressure on iran to back off from interfering in iraq's internal affairs. in my view, only then will there be a possibility of bringing relative stability to the region.
madam president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i was going to say that if you wanted to sum up your speech in one sentence, you could say that it is official optimism. but i think that europe, that our voters want the facts, they want the truth. politics is not only known by what it says, but also by what it does not say, and i missed in your speech the issues that are troubling a significant part of european public opinion, including public opinion in my country. i am thinking, for example, of the regular persecution of minorities in iraq, including, i stress, christians. it's a fact of life. i think what my colleague tomasz poręba said a moment ago about iran's interference in iraq is right. isn't it true that the iraqi authorities, in making their outrageous intervention in the iranian refugee camp in ashraf, are doing it in this way and not in another? i think it is very important to emphasize this, especially since the iraqi authorities receive financial aid from the european union, which they often misuse, for example, to intervene in the refugee camp in ashraf.
madam president! i think iraq can serve as an example that sometimes to break the backbone of a dictatorship that is destroying its opponents by the thousands with chemical weapons, it takes force. these are tough decisions. so i want to say today, as we talk about iraq, that we remember the thousands of american, italian, polish and other soldiers who have fallen in iraq, and that we remember their families. they went there with faith and belief that they would serve a good cause, and as we hear here, iraq is today on the road to building democracy. i know everyone here today is demanding action from you, mrs ashton, but we are demanding action from the union. i would ask you to go to iraq and give an assessment of the situation so that we can give the aid that the european union is providing under the conditions that have been presented here, in particular the protection of minorities.
madam president! now it just so happens that the poles themselves are taking the floor, but we have experience in the participation of poland and polish soldiers in restoring security in iraq. i would like to say that i share your opinion that fortunately the situation in iraq is a little better today, but it is still a rather fragile state. i would like to propose two specific measures, because i think they are lacking, among the various measures taken by the union. the first thing (which has not been discussed here today) is that i think it would be extremely important for the development and stability of iraq to adopt a programme to educate young iraqis in europe, because there is still a shortage of doctors, engineers, irrigation specialists in iraq. i think we could be very helpful to iraq in that regard. the second issue is the protection of cultural property that is in iraq. i think the union should in particular help to rebuild babylon. it's a good thing that we all in the world should be watching out for.
high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy/vice-president of the commission. − thank you all again for an important and interesting debate. i will just try and capture some of the clear issues that honourable members were most concerned about. i would begin by recognising the importance that members attach to the issue of minorities. as members will know, one of the fundamental parts of our work in the partnership and cooperation agreements is indeed to make sure that human rights is at the heart of our agreements. we hope to be able initial this agreement with iraq soon, and i do accept and undertake to make sure that, within what we do, the issues of minorities are understood. that is clearly of great significance. i share, too, the objective raised by a number of honourable members on the question of capital punishment. our objective is indeed to get this abolished, for all the reasons that honourable members have quite rightly indicated. i agree, too, that we have to consolidate and strengthen the political processes, which is going to be of great significance in everything we do, and to make sure particularly that we have, with the forthcoming elections, an understanding of what it is we want to achieve. i understand the points raised by a number of honourable members, including mr costa and mr stevenson, about the issues concerning the committee decision on the barring of candidates. the review of candidates was always part of the pre-electoral process. there is an appeals procedure, which i trust will be allowed to run its proper course. i should also say that we do plan to send our eu mission next week, which is six weeks ahead of election day, and that will enable us to follow first-hand and closely the pre-election process, which is of great interest. we trust and hope that the iraqi authorities will ensure an inclusive electoral process, for all the reasons that honourable members have made absolutely clear in what they have said. a number of members also raised the issue of the memorandum of understanding on energy and its importance and significance. we are very clear in doing this that iraq is a unitary state and that all our cooperation is with the government of all of iraq. we fully support iraq remaining a unified and sovereign state. within this area, it will be important to enhance cooperation – and i heard what was said, in particular, by mr rübig, who described the need to think further about enhancing that cooperation. i will feed that back to the commissioners-designate. i am also aware, when i say that there is an issue around the security question, that the issue of kirkuk is a very important one, as well as other disputed boundaries. i described that as one of the major challenges which iraq faces at the present time. i feel very strongly that iraq has to solve these issues for itself. it is for iraq to deal with. however, i am very keen to support the united nations assistance mission in iraq, which has made significant efforts to try and begin a dialogue and a process. to be cautious, though, i do not expect dialogue to be of any significant level pre the elections, at this particular stage. just a little bit more about energy cooperation too. we see this as being part of developing a comprehensive and integrated energy policy for iraq. this is about the supply and security of supply between iraq and the european union, and should of course include the development of renewable energy, particularly solar and wind energy, and to also enhance energy efficiency measures within iraq. i hope too that we will see technological, scientific and industrial cooperation as well over the coming months and years. that point was well made. moving to the issue of the recent cancellation of the delegation, mr meyer raised the issue of future security concerns. we do want to see an improvement in the environment, as i have indicated, to allow the deployment of the election observation mission with the participation of meps. this will clearly be of enormous significance for honourable members in the coming electoral process and, as i have indicated, we will be sending people out very shortly. honourable members raised the question of the withdrawal of forces. president obama has, of course, announced the withdrawal of all combat troops by august 2010, which in practice means that the withdrawal will begin soon after the national elections. that, again, is of significance and importance. i have indicated that we are sending the election assessment team shortly, which i hope will help us deal with the issues that honourable members have raised in that context. in terms of camp ashraf, we have consistently and repeatedly reminded iraq that this complex issue must be managed in full accordance with international law, and indeed without any violence. going back to where we began, i am optimistic about iraq. there are significant challenges, and honourable members are right to remind us of those significant challenges. however, we can see, with the coming elections and with the opportunity for greater cooperation – an opportunity for the european union, with its value system and the things we are particularly concerned about: human rights, the rights of minorities, the issues of capital punishment, developing strong cooperation on energy security and supply and working more closely with the government, while being clear about the expectations we have – a future for iraq that will be peaceful and democratic. we must ensure that we work consistently towards that end.
in writing. i welcome the optimistic tone of mrs ashton's remarks, but i would be somewhat cautious in my assessment of the situation in iraq. despite many facets, the country remains unstable internally, and democracy is certainly not 'well established'. it is impossible to speak of stability in a country whose borders have been displaced by 1.8 to 1.9 million inhabitants, another million have left its territory and the living conditions of refugees are extremely poor. it is necessary to review the current methods of providing foreign assistance to refugees in syria and jordan and to persons resettled in iraq. this aid should be provided over a sufficiently long time horizon. how long? we don't know that yet. but just as a doctor does not stop treatment at the first sign of improvement, we should not be fooled by overly optimistic prognoses.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the second review of the cotonou agreement comes at a very interesting time, as it allows the treaty's provisions to be analysed in the light of a rapidly changing reality. since the last review in 2005, a lot has happened: the economic crisis, the food crisis, the energy crisis, the economic crisis, and the changes that have occurred as a result of the climate negotiations and their impact on developing countries. but what must interest parliamentarians is the role of the joint parliamentary assembly and any attempts to limit its frequency and role. i am very pleased to hear the commissioner say that the european commission has no such intention. this is important because neither the european parliament, the joint parliamentary assembly nor the national parliaments of the acp states participated in the decision-making process leading to the amendment of the agreement. the question of the regionalisation of acp-eu relations, and more specifically the nature of that regionalisation, is also important. i am not against regionalisation, but i am convinced that regional meetings of the joint assembly cannot replace plenary sessions. incidentally, it would seem more natural if the structures and working rules of the joint assembly were decided by the assembly itself, rather than by the parties to the agreement. i support the report's desire to strengthen national parliaments. louis michel said that. we would like to see all acp representatives in the joint assembly in future as parliamentarians and not as government representatives. it is equally important that acp national parliaments are given the opportunity to play a significant role in development cooperation, in the programming, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the activities undertaken. hence the need for access to strategic documents. and of course i agree that there should be no duplication of functions and that complementarity and synergy between the epas and the joint parliamentary assembly is very important.
mr. chairman, please! i took the liberty of asking for a word, influenced by mr niculescu's speech, and i wanted to give my full support to the idea he expressed that in our economic relations with other countries, including the acp countries, we should never lose sight of the food security of the people of europe. in relations with the acp countries, we have the experience of the sugar market reform, which was carried out under the high slogans of support for these countries, and which in reality made the situation in the european union, the situation of our farmers and our consumers, much worse, and did little to help the acp countries. let us always remember food security and our society that needs it.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i too will give an example, as did mrs hautala: a young polish man was sentenced to life imprisonment in the uk for rape in a trial that was conducted under intense press pressure and which, according to some observers, did not meet at least polish fair trial standards. he is currently serving a life sentence in poland, although polish law does not provide for life imprisonment for rape, only for murder (for rape, a maximum of 12 years). so we are dealing with a situation where a man is in a polish prison for a punishment that is not in accordance with the principles of polish law. i give this example as an illustration of the problem and an argument for the urgent need to define some general standards both in terms of criminal procedure and, in my view, also in terms of the rules for the enforcement of the sentence. because we are increasingly seeing a situation where criminals are tried in some countries and punished in others. that is why i support the idea of standards and the idea of a directive.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it is a shame that a modern europe, a place of freedom and respect for human rights, is becoming a place of slavery and exploitation for so many people. this is all the more alarming as it often affects the most vulnerable and vulnerable, women and children. as minister of justice and prosecutor general of poland, i oversaw a series of investigations that revealed that such phenomena occurred in europe, crossed national borders, and sometimes took on a cruel character. human trafficking was primarily for the purpose of sexual exploitation or forced slave labor. in order to prevent and combat such phenomena effectively, it is essential that each member state has a professional, preferably centralised, law enforcement body to ensure decisive and effective action and good international cooperation. the european union institutions should play a particularly important role in this latter case. and two final points. in the light of the fact that organised crime groups are responsible for trafficking in human beings, it is important that individual countries ensure that sanctions are sufficiently high for such serious crimes to deter and isolate the perpetrators, as well as sanctions in the form of confiscation of property that undermine the economic sense of their activities.
mr. chairman, please! the green party representative rightly pointed out a few minutes ago that this issue of human trafficking, the sale of human beings, is not an external problem imported by the european union. it's an internal problem as well. my country's citizens are also being sold to at least a few european union member states. this is a very important and serious problem. i believe that this requires very solid action not only by the eu institutions but also by the individual member states. i would like to remind you of the events that took place a few years ago, when the italian police and administration, responding to certain signals from poland, eliminated examples of trafficking in human beings, which was the illegal employment of polish workers in that country. this is also a trade in living commodities, and we must not be silent about it.
mr. chairman, please! in the context of today's debate, three issues need to be highlighted and they require special attention. too few criminals face justice. despite the upward trend, the number of criminal prosecutions for trafficking in human beings is still many times lower than the scale of the crimes committed. victims are not receiving adequate assistance, protection and compensation. given the estimated scale of trafficking in human beings in europe, it is clear that only a few countries have taken measures that can be considered as a real response. third, the situation is not sufficiently monitored. it is clear that the problem is not limited to the european union. it is therefore essential that the community cooperates even more closely with the relevant international organisations, thereby creating new value in combating this very dangerous phenomenon.
i would like to inform the house that i have received a letter from the president of the european council, herman van rompuy, informing me of the european council's decision to consult the european parliament on the spanish government's proposal on the composition of the european parliament and to ask the parliament to give its consent to the non-convention of the convention on this matter. it is about 18 additional members of the european parliament. i have referred the proposal to the committee on constitutional affairs, which is now beginning its work on the matter and will shortly appoint a rapporteur. the work will continue. i also wanted to tell you that, following the resignation of the bulgarian government of its current candidate for commissioner, a new candidate has been announced. tomorrow the conference of presidents will decide on the final timetable, but the most likely date for the hearing of the new commissioner is 3 february and the vote on 9 february. of course, this also depends on the decision and the conversation between president barroso and the new commissioner-designate appointed by the bulgarian government. it's not settled yet, but i wanted the house to have a general idea of what our next steps are. the european parliament is in any case in complete control of the situation. there are no emergencies here, we're following democratic procedures. these procedures are of fundamental importance to us and will be the way the european parliament, of which i am president, will operate. i also wanted to inform you of how the european parliament intends to work with the two-and-a-half-year permanent presidency of the european union and the european council and how it intends to work with the rotating presidency. the rotating presidency, in this case the spanish presidency, will present its six-month action plan at the beginning of each six-month period and will report back at the end of that period. the permanent presidency of the european council will present the outcome of the european summits. as you know, there are two summits every six months, and the president of the european council will present the results of the summit twice every six months, i.e. four times in the whole year.
the next item is the council statement on the presentation of the spanish presidency's programme.
acting president of the council. - mr president of the parliament, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, may i begin by addressing a country that is suffering from pain and tragedy: haiti. i know that i share with you the consternation, solidarity and commitment of the european union, all its institutions, starting with the rotating presidency, the commission, the council and this parliament, towards a country that is suffering, towards a people torn apart by death, destruction and violence, after a past of poverty and also of conflict. it is not often that we show our european stature; it is not often that we show our commitment to what is happening in the world and in the countries that suffer the most, as we did in the tragedy in haiti. from the outset, as the rotating presidency in coordination with the commission and the high representative, we have tried to respond to the tragedy in haiti. last monday the council of ministers for development affairs met, next monday the council of ministers for european affairs will meet to draw up a rapid response of aid, of humanitarian cooperation, on all fronts, for the future of haiti, and i am deeply convinced that the response of the international community is strong, it is solidary and that the european union will rise to the occasion. in the face of the tragedy in haiti, the only protagonist must be the people who are suffering in haiti, and i hope and trust that we will make every effort to launch a profound recovery: this is what european society demands of us and above all what our deep convictions demand of us. mr president of the parliament, it is an honour for me to appear before you to explain the main priorities of the spanish rotating presidency during these six months. it's more than an honor, it's a great honor. it is a great honour to speak on behalf of a country which this semester will be celebrating 25 years of membership of what was then the european communities. i speak on behalf of a european country, a europeanist country, a country which has seen a great transformation of progress and welfare in the last 25 years, largely because of its accession to the european union. europe was the dream of generations, of many spanish generations: it was the dream of democracy, of openness to the world, of progress, of welfare, of the welfare state, of freedoms. we have seen this in europe; europe has given us this; we have given europe this. twenty-five years later, we feel we are a country loyal to europe, committed to the union, and there is no more powerful way of being loyal, of being committed to europe than to exercise the responsibility of commitment, initiative and proposal: that is what we want to do for these six months. six months of change, because we are exercising a rotating presidency at a time of economic change, as a result of a serious financial crisis that we have not experienced for 80 years; of political change, because we have a treaty of lisbon that changes the governance of the european union; of change in external relations, because the phenomenon of globalisation is growing and there are new emerging countries; and of change in the relationship that the union must have with european citizens to put to good use all that the new treaty of lisbon provides. the time of change is therefore coming, especially in two circumstances: the serious economic crisis we are living through and the treaty of lisbon and the new institutional relationship. i have to say something about the economic crisis: we know that it is the most serious crisis in 80 years; we know that production in the world, international trade, has never fallen so much as at present; we know the serious effects it has caused in the world and in the european union: eight million unemployed - many of them, by the way, in my country - an effect on public accounts and, therefore, on the prospect of financial stability which has made us take urgent measures from cooperation and makes us look towards changes in the european economy, in productive capacity, in the improvement of the competitiveness of the whole union. we must continue to maintain fiscal stimulus until recovery is a reality; we must commit ourselves to maintaining the stability pact and to complying with the commission's indications for 2013; and we must tackle an economic strategy for 2020, which the commission is drawing up and which, in the opinion of the spanish rotating presidency, must be the key to these six months. we know what the weaknesses and strengths of the european union are; we know that since the mid-1990s we have been losing our capacity for economic growth, our potential for economic growth; we know that since the mid-1990s we have been losing productivity in relative terms 'to our large competing economies'; and we know that we are facing difficulties in some specific areas, which are decisive for the future of our growth, our competitiveness and our innovation in a globalised world. but we also have strengths and it is good to remember them. clear strengths: we represent almost a third of world gdp; we are without doubt the world's leading exporting power; we are second only to the united states in research, development and innovation; we account for almost 60% of development aid in the world, and this is a great strength for the european union. what are the key priorities from spain's point of view in order to renew europe's economic strength, to make the economy sustainable from the point of view of competitiveness, from the environmental and social point of view? i will refer to four major themes that we want to promote, which must be well covered in the 2020 strategy. i would summarize it by saying that the european union, in economic terms, must make a commitment to itself; saying that in economic terms, the european union must advance in economic union and cooperation, starting with a sense of responsibility on the part of the states, but also by giving the community institutions, in particular the commission, new powers of direction and of achieving objectives. in the last ten years - and i will refer to this as one of the first areas where we must take steps and make changes - our energy dependence has increased by nine points: we have gone from 44% to 53% of the energy dependence of the european union as a whole. these nine points of excess translate exactly into 67 billion euros which we transfer to other countries like the european union every year. do you know what that amount represents? it represents almost the same as what all the countries of the european union spend on public investment in r & d & i. we must change our energy dependence, reduce it, because without this our economic weakness will increase. what do we have to do? in the energy field, progress has been made, but not as we would like. we must definitely create a common energy market which will strengthen the whole union and the union's economy. two key elements are energy interconnections - the expectations set in 2002 have not been met - and a common regulatory framework to consolidate a common energy market. if we achieve energy interconnections in southern, eastern and northern europe, if we make it a top priority, giving powers to the commission, we will see our energy dependence reduced and we will encourage the development of renewable energies, which by their very nature require versatility in energy distribution. ladies and gentlemen, europe will not win the leadership of economic competitiveness unless it takes a decisive stand on energy interconnection in all its key areas and a common market. the second big goal: what is it, in modern society, that brings more growth, more innovation? the investment in the information society, in the new technologies that have changed almost everything in the world. 40% of the productivity increase in the european economy is due to information and communication technologies, to ict - and we are in this, as europeans, leaders, because we have leading companies - but we do not have a digital internal market. we want to take steps towards the creation of a digital market. what do you mean? it means raising barriers; it means betting on the new generation of networks; it means facilitating electronic commerce, which is increasing day by day in each country, but which is not progressing in terms of being able to be carried out between several countries. if we move towards a digital market, we will facilitate content creation, strengthen intellectual property and make productivity, thanks to the innovation that, in all areas of the economy, information and communication technologies bring, yield results in a very short time. i would remind you that this is the sector which currently has the greatest capacity for innovation, for increasing productivity and for creating stable employment. the third area is the sustainable economy or industry. i will give you just one example of what we consider to be a priority in the fight against climate change: we want to set in motion, and promote with the commission, a plan for the development of electric vehicles. the automotive industry is going to undergo a great transformation, it is already in that great transformation. if we are committed in an integrated way in this industrial area, as europeans, to a joint, shared vision and a common strategy for the electric car, we will contribute to reducing our energy dependence, to the fight against climate change and to technological innovation that will undoubtedly open up the electric vehicle, which will also be directly related to the information and communication technology industry. fourthly, the fourth central element of this sustainable economy and of the economic renewal that the european union needs is education, above all the university, the research area. in the last ten years, we have not made any progress in terms of universities of excellence in the ranking of the top hundred universities, the european ones. we must complete the bologna process; we must encourage, facilitate and open up the prospects for an ever more european university, for ever more european research, because that is where the great lever of the future is undoubtedly located. and our territory of competition in the world is no longer like "country to country"; our territory of competition in the world is like europeans, it's like europe, because the other actors are the size of china, india, the united states, the emerging countries. if we do not take advantage of the synergy represented by 500 million citizens in the economic sphere, which means tens of thousands of enterprises with a wide range of capabilities and millions of workers who must be provided with better training every day, we will not be the real protagonists of the future in this scenario of globalization in terms of economic prosperity in innovation and technology: we will be spectators, not protagonists. and the way is the union: more common economic policy, more integration, more shared design, more europe; not putting up new barriers, but removing barriers; not dividing, but adding; having a vision of the union in favour of competitiveness, integration and innovation. we trust the commission for this 2020 strategy, which must also include a reflection on the future of the common agricultural policy, a decisive policy in terms of environmental protection, food security and the income of many citizens in the european union. we are convinced that the debate that will take place in the european council, in the commission and, of course, in the dialogue with the european parliament, must lead to a 2020 strategy that contains serious governance, that is demanding in terms of objectives and concentrated on the areas i have just mentioned. change in the economic and change in the political, in the government of the union. the treaty of lisbon establishes new institutions: the presidency of the permanent council, the high representative for foreign affairs; it strengthens this parliament, the heart of european democracy, and also the commission. i can promise this parliament, which represents all european citizens, that the spanish rotating presidency will be loyal and cooperative with the new institutions; we want them to have the value that the treaty establishes: the need for the functioning of the european union so that the permanent president of the council represents the european union and fulfils all its functions, as does the high representative. we know that this is the first test, these six months, of how the new institutional architecture works, just as we will support a strengthened commission and a parliament which is increasingly the political centre of the european union. we are going to do that and i hope that we will be judged at the end of this period in a satisfactory way because the commitment is very firm. it is a government with several powers, the european union, and that government with several powers must have a common thread, which is cooperative loyalty. that's how we'll work. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are also living in a time of change in the field of external relations, not only because of the high representative, because of the launching of the european external action service - which will be a fundamental chapter - but because we have a six-month agenda, in this context of globalisation and change, which is decisive. i will tell you what the objectives are in the field of external relations at all the summits we are going to hold. first, shared security; second, energy; third, the promotion and extension of trade openness and technology transfer; and, fourth, aid to development cooperation, where the european union has and must maintain a strong ethical leadership in the world. in these six months we will have this dialogue for these objectives with the americas, north and south; we will do so in the mediterranean area, also with africa and asia, with europe which is not part of the union - with the other countries of europe - practically with most of the continents and latitudes through an intensive agenda of international summits in which, of course, we will work in full collaboration with the president of the council, with the commission - because we have agreements of transcendence for these six months - and also with this parliament. changes in the economic, changes in the political and changes in the vision, in the outward look as a consequence of the new actors and globalization. but, as i said a few minutes ago, just as in the economic sphere, europe must also bet on itself in the sphere of foreign policy, i must say that europe must bet on itself; that in foreign policy the interest and defence of the european interest must count, and the defence of the european interest has a priority area, namely neighbourhood relations, where, in my view, we must set more ambitious objectives, more intensive relations, because that is where, without a doubt, a good part of european interests will be addressed. the changes we are experiencing and want to promote through reforms and renewals also have a dimension in european citizenship. the lisbon treaty wants - it has been the will of europeans - for citizens to feel closer to the european institutions, to see the union as 'their union', to see europe as a government closer to them. to do this, we are going to put in place new instruments, to promote them in the next six months. the first of these is the popular legislative initiative, which is so important to this parliament; secondly, as a priority, we want to make progress in this period, in collaboration with the commission, on the most important right of citizenship that the european union can have as a horizon, which is equality between men and women. the most advanced, most perfect societies, where human rights and prosperity are best realized, are those that achieve greater equality between men and women, and are those that are active and militant against what gender violence represents, against what mistreatment of women represents, which is inappropriate and intolerable in a society as advanced as the european union. we therefore propose to set up new systems of protection in the judicial field, through a european protection order, through the maximum extension of protection to that scourge which a large part of european societies suffers, namely gender-based violence. the european citizens must also know, from our deliberations, our proposals and our initiatives, that social cohesion and social inclusion in the face of poverty in europe are essential aspects of the union; that the deepest marks of identity, alongside democracy in europe, are welfare and social cohesion. and so, as i said earlier, the 2020 economic strategy must be economically, socially and environmentally sustainable. for this social sustainability, i propose that we renew a great social pact in europe with companies and workers, a great social pact in the development of the 2020 strategy. the social dialogue and the social agreement have made europe strong in its early days, in its weak spots and now, in this period of renewal and change, after a serious economic crisis, the social agreement - the social pact - can be a great lever to carry forward the objectives we have set ourselves with effective governance. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to reiterate spain's gratitude to all the countries of the european union, especially those which have promoted our integration and contributed to our development. i reiterate our commitment to europe, our commitment to the european union, our commitment to a way of life, but also to a way of thinking and feeling: to think in favour of democracy, equality, human rights, peace and in favour of a way of feeling that living together, uniting our peoples, uniting our aspirations, uniting our history has enabled us to live in peace with ourselves and today and tomorrow can allow us to continue to be the great region of prosperity, well-being and ideals.
president of the commission. mr president of the spanish government, for the next six months spain will be holding the rotating presidency of the council. a country with a great tradition and commitment to europe, present both in its government and in all its political forces and public opinion, and with a president of the government, josé luis rodríguez zapatero, whose european credentials are unquestionable. the institutional engines of the european project will be fully operational as soon as this parliament's vote of confidence in the new commission gives these two institutions a strong and solid basis for moving forward with an ambitious political agenda. i hope that this vote will take place very soon. i would like first of all to reaffirm, at this tragic time for haiti, our full solidarity and willingness to help its people and all the victims of the earthquake. the devastating earthquake has been on our minds since january 12 and efforts to provide all possible assistance were deployed from the very beginning. so far, the commission is prepared to mobilise eur 130 million and the total eu effort in immediate assistance, including that of the member states, amounts to eur 222 million, not including civil protection assistance. the commission could mobilise an additional eur 200 million as longer-term support. i can assure you that the commission and the european union are demonstrating the values and principles of solidarity in action. haiti is a caribbean country. in this context, i would like to stress that during this six-month spanish presidency of the council, there is a very ambitious programme in the field of external relations. and i would like to note in particular the priority given by the spanish presidency to latin america and the caribbean. i am sure that i can count on the special support of spain to ensure that the summit to be held in madrid next may with the countries of latin america and the caribbean is a success for latin america and for europe. let me now turn to the policy priorities for the weeks and months ahead. everything points in the direction of determined and united european action. the failed attack on the aircraft at detroit was a reminder that we need to act together if we are to face up to the threats to security. copenhagen was a reminder that the global community does not automatically share europe's level of ambition: as we have been doing in the g20 discussions, we need to keep driving a positive and forward-looking international process. only with a united europe can we shape globalisation. but we have to look at the situation of our economy. we all know that the european economy is at a delicate moment. determined action has succeeded in preventing the worst. but we still face the risk that unemployment will continue to rise, and we need to make a judgment about when to switch the focus to restoring our public finances. at the same time, we must learn from the crisis. we fully realized that globalisation is a reality and that we need to use it to our advantage. we have demonstrated that our social protection systems have been able to respond to exceptional circumstances and by providing new safety nets. but we also saw the clear limits for member states acting alone and we saw that coordinated european union action not only brought results for europe, but also triggered an unprecedented global response by the g20. now we have to shape the right future for europe, its economy and its society. the challenges we were facing before the crisis are still there, if anything they were reinforced: how to cope with the consequences of aging, of our demographics, how to remain competitive in a global world, how to secure the transition to a more sustainable economy, to mention just a few. but i am confident in the capacities of europe. i believe that an economy rebuilding its strengths has a real chance to redirect its energies. a society which has proved robust in the face of economic crisis is one that can build for the future with confidence. and a european economic system whose resilience flows from its single market, its competition rules and the euro will now need these assets as the drivers for recovery. i see the next six months as a springboard to set ambitious goals, goals i have presented in my political guidelines and which we debated last autumn here in the european parliament. this will constitute the europe 2020 strategy. we need a fundamental reworking of our economy to meet the challenges of the future. to agree on a transformation agenda, with the european parliament, with member states, with social partners, with societies at large. to offer a clear direction towards a competitive, innovative, sustainable, socially inclusive market economy, able to prosper in the global marketplace. europe 2020 must offer both a mid-term vision and short-term action. the more we can shape our immediate measures to put us on the road to our longer-term objectives, the more we will have a head start to future growth and employment, our number one priority. the renewed lisbon strategy was able to build an understanding of how structural reform feeds directly into growth and jobs. but let's be frank about it: the crisis has wiped out many of the gains and there were also some shortcomings. the truth is that we still lag well behind our competitors on our research effort, our investment in education, our share of high tech. we must now use the europe 2020 strategy to create new sources of growth, to unleash the potential of the internal market to drive our economy forward. that means using knowledge and creativity to generate real value in our economies, unlocking innovation and promoting its market uptake from icts to new energy, clean technologies for example. it means empowering people for the future with the right skills and with a labour market ready to seize the opportunities for job creation; and targeting action on the big problems, like youth unemployment. it is obvious that we are now facing an emergency situation from a social and unemployment point of view. this requires a strong focus from the european union. we need to define together actions at european union level to complement national actions with positive social impact. it also means an economy shaped for the future a sustainable and resource-efficient economy that is also productive and innovative. europe's huge industrial assets need to be re-directed to seizing the first-mover advantage in tomorrow's markets. but europe must be able to retain a solid, modern and competitive industrial base. the crisis means that, more than ever, we must use every euro of investment to best effect. and of course we must complete our reform of financial markets to put them back at the service of the economy, and not the opposite. this also includes our sme-friendly approach. smes are the sector which can create more jobs in the european union and we will be doing them, and their workers, a good service if we reduce administrative burdens and apply a better and smart regulation approach. in our interconnected economies, we all have an interest in what is happening at national and european union level, from one member state to the next. the present crisis shows us not only the consequences of global interdependence but also the negative effects that a specific situation in one country may have in the whole euro area. so europe 2020 must bring with it stronger coordination mechanisms, a common vision and an effective european leadership. i want to thank prime minister zapatero for his clear commitment to this european approach when discussing economic policies, his commitment to community matters and his commitment to the role of the european commission in this vision and in implementation of this vision. only with a european approach, a european vision and european instruments can we deliver results for our european citizens. this will be one of the distinctive features of europe 2020: the commission will make full use of the new possibilities given by the treaty, including those concerning the euro area. this is the vision i would like to debate with you in the coming weeks. because one thing we have learned from the lisbon strategy is that a european economic strategy needs the full commitment of the european political community and the social partners. let us be clear: in the past, some national politicians have resisted stronger mechanisms of governance within the lisbon strategy. i hope that, following the lessons of interdependence not only at global but also at european level all the lessons that were given to us by the crisis all eu governments will now recognise the need for full ownership of europe 2020 and for a truly coordinated and coherent action in economic policy, as foreseen in articles 120 and 121 of the lisbon treaty. finally, let me add that i see europe 2020 also as the way to bring confidence and hope for our citizens. we must not hide the fact that europe, like most of the developed world, will go through a long period of slow growth if we remain inactive. the phase of "getting worse before getting better" is probably behind us, but the getting better will be slow. we will have to address the real problem of the economy, that the potential growth of europe may be reduced if we do not act now in a coherent and effective manner. our citizens, be they households or entrepreneurs, should feel that the european union is part of the solution to their difficulties and anxieties. europe 2020 is for me, above all, also a response to this. it is to connect the european project to the concrete needs of our citizens. this is why i also welcome the initiative to hold an informal european council on 11 february to have a first discussion at head of state and government level. i also think it is crucial to find opportunities to discuss these issues with this house with parliament both before and after the commission presents its outline for europe 2020. that is why i have discussed this with the council and with the president of the european council. i think we should have at least a three-step approach: the informal european council for heads of state and government to discuss the issue, the spring european council for the first important proposals and the june european council for the approval of the guidelines, so that we will have the time to discuss this issue broadly and with a very active contribution from the european parliament. i have focused today on economic policy because i see this as our number one priority in terms of urgency. but of course this does not exhaust our agenda. the challenges of the coming weeks and months are manifold. let me just mention one of many examples: the follow-up to the copenhagen conference on climate change. while we need some time to collectively reflect on the right strategic orientations for the future of the international process, we should not lower our ambition regarding commitments already made by the european union. we should also intensify our efforts namely through our internal policies of promoting the upgrading and modernisation of the industrial base of our economy, the innovation and the development of new clean technologies, energy efficiency and the energy security agenda, also by putting this matter at the top of the transformational agenda for europe. this is how to make the best case for the european union on the global stage: a european union ready for action, with a clear vision for the future and a determination to get there. the more we are united and effective at home, the more our case will win through internationally. i very much look forward to working with this parliament to help make the spanish presidency of the council a success and to ensure that the next six months put us on the road to realising our common ambitions for europe, a european union that is closer to our citizens and that is focused on clear results for our europe. (applause) i would like to thank you.
thank you very much, mr president of the european commission. before i turn the floor over to the chairmen of the political groups in the european parliament, i would like to stress once again the importance of the vision that prime minister zapatero has presented. it is a vision of the development of the european union, based on the community method. i also thank the prime minister for emphasising the role of the european parliament, which has increased considerably as a result of the lisbon treaty, and that it is this cooperation between the european council, the council of ministers and the european parliament that will be the basis for the future structure and interinstitutional balance in the european union. today we're forecasting our actions for many years to come. not everything is written in treaties. that is why what will happen during the spanish presidency is so important, because it will set the political customs that will perpetuate the way we operate and the effectiveness of the european union. the spanish presidency is of particular importance here, and i thank you for presenting a vision which is very much in line with that of the european parliament. i would like to thank president barroso for presenting the european commission's point of view. the european commission is still working in its old form, but i would like to emphasise that we have a european commission, it is not yet a new commission, but it is still in operation. i would like to thank the president of the commission in particular for presenting the strategy 2020 and the way it is coordinated. this is the key issue: how we will coordinate the 2020 strategy in the future - here too, we need to rely on the community method. thank you very much, sir. i would now like to ask the chairmen of the political groups for their comments and observations.
acting president of the council. - mr president, i should like to begin by thanking you for the tone and content of the speeches made this morning on behalf of the various groups in this parliament. i will make some references to the most important issues, starting with mr daul. i thank you for your words on this positive impetus on economic governance, on the common economic policy. it is true that you have made a consideration of the aim of this economic government, of this economic policy or, if i may say so, an ideological incursion into the possible postulates of a social democratic idea or project. in particular, i have heard him express his reluctance to increase public spending indiscriminately and to promote a business-friendly environment. i wish to make a clarification. it has little to do with my speech, but it does have to do with my political convictions. i am a firm supporter of the stability pact. i am a firm believer in fiscal balance throughout the cycle. so much so that in the first four years of government, before the economic and financial crisis, the government that i chaired - and that i chaired - had a surplus in public accounts and reduced the debt to 32% of gdp. so i'm a convinced one. deficit and surplus are a tool, depending on the business cycle. i have now been in favour, as have most european governments, of a fiscal stimulus response which creates a public deficit and public spending has increased simply because private investment has been curbed. it's not an ideological issue. it's a problem with reality. the financial crisis caused private investment, private credit, to freeze, to paralyze. it seems reasonable that compensating, to some extent, for this slowdown in the economy could only be done with public stimulus. that must be corrected as soon as circumstances permit, and that we must return to the stability pact. like other countries, my country is going to have, has, a large, large fiscal deficit. but i can also assure you that my country will meet the commitment to the commission for 2013 and return to the path of stability of the 3% deficit. to do this, we have - the commission will know this - an austerity plan, a demanding fiscal consolidation plan. demanding for our public accounts, and that we will put into practice. i agree that we must create an environment favourable to business, economic activity, initiative and competition. i have in fact insisted in my speech on the need for a common energy market, a european digital market. and that is nothing more than promoting economic freedom, initiative and trade between europeans in the field of energy, by promoting competition, because it lowers prices and because it promotes technological innovation, or in the digital field, which i have emphasized a lot today in this chamber, because we are playing a big part in the future, insofar as we promote electronic commerce and insofar as we promote the transmission of all the products generated today in the field of communication technologies, which are increasingly taking up a larger percentage of gross domestic product. our proposal, our programme, is therefore that the 2020 strategy should promote the absence of barriers in europe and foster competition, innovation and the business environment. now, what governments should also do, as far as they can, is not to correct those environments of business activity, but they should correct - and there we must intervene - the environments that have favored speculation, whether financial or real estate. that's different. because sometimes, whether intentionally or not, speculation in the financial sector or in real estate is encouraged by certain ideas, and spain has been the victim of this, as are some citizens, not just british citizens. it's the government's will, within its powers. you know that in spain there is a distribution of powers, not only of the central government, but also of the autonomous communities and the municipalities; there are, of course, laws and judicial procedures, but i am very sensitive to what you have said and therefore we will act. the economic environment is therefore favourable to entrepreneurship, initiative and innovation, but not to financial and real estate speculation. i am of course in favour of a reasonable tax burden and i do not represent any model to the contrary, because during my time in government i have lowered taxes on companies, i have lowered income taxes on workers in personal taxation and i am a supporter, with an instrumental view, of what the tax philosophy and tax position represents. finally, i would like to say to mr daul that i take note of the position of his group, the majority group in this house, with regard to the role of the president of the council - the permanent president - and this parliament. it seems to me a matter of transcendence. i am in favour of all the european institutions, the great european institutions, having a fluid relationship with and before parliament. and of course, to the extent that we want to make europe bigger, we have to go for a more powerful parliament. that's my opinion. mr. schulz, i appreciate your words. i am convinced that the foundations of the european union have much to do with the foundations of social democracy, that social democracy has been a great lever for building the european idea and european ideals. i would like to stress - despite the strength of other ideas, which have had many problems in their implementation - the commitment to a vision of social cohesion, a vision in which it is fundamental that democracy is social. mr verhofstadt, i am extremely grateful for your words. i agree with almost everything. as regards coordination, the failure of lisbon has meant that open coordination has failed. we know that. we revised it in 2004 and now, or we take it seriously, or we come back in 2020 and say it didn't work. governance requires a community approach. i do not know why some of your honourable members are surprised by the word 'sanctions' or 'demands'. the european union has many decisions in its operation that impose sanctions. if the directives are not respected, if the stability pact is not respected, that is normal. and it works. what this parliament must be clear about, because the european union must be clear about, is that what we have done together is producing good results. the euro, the stability pact and the internal market must be developed and deepened, because they are one of the great levers of growth and competitiveness. i fully agree with what you have proposed on copenhagen and the subsequent strategy, the new strategy. i think it is an interesting initiative that there is a high authority on this issue and indeed the copenhagen meeting did not produce the result we would have wished. it is true that europe has taken a positive position, but that is not the result. mr. meyer, out of respect, there are some things we don't share. of course, apart from the fact that the european union does not have the authority to make decisions on fiscal policy, for example, i have not presented a conservative programme, but a programme of reforms. it is a programme mainly to buy time for the future, to anticipate the future, which, in my opinion, is the best way to carry forward a progressive project. a progressive project is one that sees change, anticipates it and is able to innovate. i hope and trust that the european union will maintain this momentum. i respect your position on morocco. i don't share that. north africa, especially morocco, is of strategic interest to the european union. let us advance its process of modernization through dialogue and cooperation, and let us leave the conflict in the sahara to the united nations to arbitrate, which is the appropriate body to take the steps that spain, of course, supports and respects. it is true that on many occasions we can see helicopters or combat aircraft that promote conflict and bomb parts of the planet, and they are always in a difficult situation for our conscience. it is often difficult for our conscience and our convictions. but i have to say that seeing helicopters and seeing marines carrying food, keeping order and saving lives, to me, personally, seems like a very commendable fact. (applause) personally, i think that is a very commendable fact. and if we in europe have - and i am in favour of having - rapid action, i would certainly support our friend barnier's proposal. as mentioned here, it will have to have civilian components and military components. components that allow effective action to be taken in the shortest possible time, with the means at our disposal. i have noted your remarks, mrs andreasen. i would like to confirm to the representative of the green group that i agree with many of the points he has raised in his speech. i have spoken throughout my speech about sustainable growth, environmentally sustainable growth. i share your view that the electric vehicle is, or should be, a tractor for another mode of transport. i take note of your suggestion that environmental sustainability should be an essential dimension in the social pact and of course i am firmly convinced that the future of innovation, competitiveness and productivity is centred on what is called the 'green economy', coupled with the potential of communication technologies and of course with a common or single vision of energy, as mr sosa wagner has rightly said, because it is a central issue for the future of the european union. mr kirkhope, i agree with the relevance of the personality of my compatriot major oreja, but i do not agree that there has been no glimpse of what the ideas, initiatives and political proposal i have put forward in this house about more control or more centralisation represent. i'm not sure. what we have is a political initiative to make the internal market bigger, in more fields and with more competitiveness and more innovation. so that we can join forces. adding is not controlling, joining is not directing. quite the opposite. adding is more democratic, joining is more cooperative. what is, in my view, more negative is that we leave 27 small centralized controls, because in a globalized world, the actors who compete with internal markets and common policy, as they do in the united states, in china or in india, are going to get the upper hand. and we're going to see how in a short time, if we don't make that profound change as europeans, and that new, more communitarian economic policy, india or china will reach our quotas of production and innovative strength. no, there is no - let me put it this way, with all due respect - no interest in control or interventionism. we're not in that debate. when we talk about 2020 and governance, we talk about our collective capabilities, the sum of the synergies, what 500 million citizens of a continent represent, which has been able to generate and launch the industrial revolution, the best use of energy and the greatest scientific breakthroughs. if all of that strength comes together, we will have the ability to be in the spotlight and in the lead, to maintain our economic model, our prosperity model and our welfare model. it's about those goals. and of course - i completely agree - i think there is a clear position of the european union on iran. iran must comply with international rules and the international community - and of course the european union - must enforce the demand that iran comply with international rules on nuclear proliferation. i share the concern and sensitivity on this issue. mr sosa wagner, i am glad to be able to meet you in this forum, in this great institution, at this time and in this debate. i have noted your approach. i fully share your view on energy, which has been the focus of much of my speech. that is where the european union's ability to be that great continent will be defined to a large extent. politically and economically. because, without a doubt, to the extent that we have more energy interconnection and less energy dependence, we will be stronger economically and stronger politically. energy, as we know, has determined the course of history. it has determined the course of domination of some powers over other countries. control and use of energy. of course, at this stage too, with the savings that are now being raised here. the european union is making a policy - and will make it during these six months - to defend fundamental rights. it does so with intelligence and by seeking advances where we have the expectation and hope that they can be made. where we understand that shaking hands is better than closing the door. that is why we will continue the summit with our neighbour, morocco. and at all times we will promote the defence of human rights. finally, mr president, i am very grateful to all the speakers of the various groups. i express my respect for all positions. i take note of the most direct and concrete things that have been raised in relation to my country, which i represent with the greatest pride, for what we have done in these twenty-five years of presence in the european union. but i also represent it with the utmost humility, because we are here to share and i believe that the best way to share is to present ourselves with humility, to present ourselves to unite, to add up and to defend together that great ideal which is the european union. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the commission. - mr president, i think there was a general consensus on the priorities of the spanish presidency of the council, with of course some nuances depending on the different political groups, but there is one subject which has emerged in several speeches, to which i would like to refer, namely the question of european coordination, of coherence, whether in the response to natural disasters outside europe, or in the response to be given in the context of external relations, for example the post-copenhagen, or in the field of economic policy. and here, i believe, we have a solution, which is to apply the treaty of lisbon. we don't have to go far. as regards the response to the humanitarian crisis, there is indeed the famous barnier report, which has been mentioned today. it is a report which i had requested from your member of parliament, mr michel barnier, my dear friend, together with the then rotating presidency, the austrian presidency. he was not commissioner at the time and it was my initiative to ask him for this report. and we did have that report, which had my support and the support of the council presidency at the time. secondly, it was not applied because the council did not want to apply it, let us be clear. and that is why we must do more in terms of coherence in the european union's external humanitarian action. now, i believe the answer is in the lisbon treaty. we have a high representative, in this case a high representative, who is vice-president of the commission and at the same time president of the council of foreign ministers. that is why i have also created a new portfolio in the new commission, international cooperation, humanitarian aid and crisis response. it will be a commissioner, in this case probably a commissioner, who will have that as his first task and will have to work together with the high representative and the council so that we can indeed, i hope, one day have a real external service, but also have competence in the field of crisis response and civil protection. that's it for the first question. secondly, the question of international negotiation, for example post-copenhagen. i have to read the treaty of lisbon, because i think many people have not read it. article 17: 'with the exception of the common foreign and security policy and other cases provided for in the treaties, the commission shall represent the union's external action.' it is the commission which represents the union, not the european council, not the council, which represents the union in external affairs from now on. there will probably be heads of state and government representing their countries. but who represents the union in external affairs, except for the cfsp? it's the commission. that is why i have created a portfolio, the climate agenda, and so i hope that the commissioner, in this case a commissioner, in the future, will have all the support necessary to represent the union in the post-copenhagen negotiations. let's be clear on that, too. the third question concerns economic policy. here again, we must read the treaty of lisbon. there are people who think that economic policy is a purely national matter. that's not true! article 120: 'the member states shall regard their economic policies as a matter of common concern and shall coordinate them within the council.' article 121, number 2: 'the council, on a recommendation from the commission, shall draw up a draft for the broad guidelines of the economic policies of the member states of the union and shall report thereon to the european council' and after read the entire article 'in order to ensure closer coordination of economic policies and sustained convergence of the economic performances of the member states, the council, on the basis of reports submitted by the commission, shall monitor economic developments in each of the member states and in the union.'there is therefore a collective monitoring. moreover, and this is new in the lisbon treaty, the commission can now make concrete recommendations, for example, and i shall read: 'when it is found that the policies of a certain member state are not in line with the broad guidelines or that they risk jeopardising the proper functioning of economic and monetary union, the commission may issue a warning to the member state concerned.' it then says: 'the council, on a recommendation from the commission, may make the necessary recommendations to that state.' but it is very interesting, because parliament will also have powers in this context: 'the president of the council and the commission report to the european parliament on the results of multilateral surveillance'. this means that from now on, we have, in the lisbon treaty we must not invent new things the mechanisms... no, yes, but of course, i've already done it. i don't need your support to say it... and the truth is that in the lisbon treaty we have, if we really want to apply it, the necessary instruments of coordination and coherence, without the need for political or ideological divisions on this subject. and that is what i am saying - and that is why i must emphasize it here today - that this is the first time that we in the european parliament have a new rotating presidency of the council. the spanish presidency has a great responsibility. this is the first time since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon that we have a rotating presidency. and as president zapatero has said, and i have full confidence in him, because of his pro-european commitment, i believe we have a responsibility to implement the treaty in its letter and in its spirit. and the letter and spirit of the lisbon treaty are very clear. a stronger europe is needed! a stronger europe, not for the institutions, but so that the institutions can better serve the concrete interests of our citizens. (applause) i would like to thank
i thank president barroso. we all read the lisbon treaty and we know that not everything is written in it. that is why it is so important that we jointly define the interpretation of what is written in the lisbon treaty and that we jointly plan our actions in the european union for many years to come.
mr president, prime minister, please! your country is taking up the presidency in an extremely difficult period - in the final phase, i hope, of the deepest economic crisis that has hit our continent in 80 years. it is therefore quite understandable that you have made the return to economic growth and the fight against unemployment a top priority for the next six months, but if you are talking about increasing the competitiveness of the european economy, we must remember that this cannot be achieved without reforming the economy, without completing the construction of the common market, without fighting the resurgence, for example in france, of economic nationalism. i am glad that energy security is also one of spain's priorities. mr prime minister, i come from poland, which, like few other countries, understands the need to diversify the supply of energy resources, and that is to diversify the sources of these supplies, and not just the transmission channels, as the russian gazprom lobbyists convince us. i hope that in six months' time you will be able to boast real successes in this field too. finally, the enlargement of the union, which mr moratinos has rightly recently identified as a matter of vital importance. we are debating today at a time when our important neighbour, also from the point of view of our energy security, ukraine, is passing another democratic test. i hope that in six months we will be able to say that ukraine is closer to membership in the european union.
mr president, prime minister, please! among the issues that have been presented by the prime minister in a rather general and broad way, there are many issues that require specifics and proposals. these will be divided into those which the spanish presidency will objectively have to deal with and those which it will want to deal with because it will try to do so. among those that need to be addressed are the institutional issues of relations between the european institutions, and here i would like to draw the prime minister's attention to the provisions in the lisbon treaty which, in the chapter on subsidiarity, speak of the need to define the role of regional and local authorities also within the member states. the spanish experience with regionalisation suggests that it may be the spanish presidency that will seek to clarify the wording on the role of regional and local authorities. this is particularly relevant when the prime minister says that one of the objectives is to develop innovation, education, which we know is largely achieved by european funds at regional and local levels. we are very much looking forward to the european parliament's elaboration of certain issues, institutional solutions and proposals for the future cohesion policy, which we know will be implemented first in zaragoza and then at the meeting of europe's innovation regions. we are very much looking forward to your decisions and your specific proposals.
acting president of the council. - mr president, i am pleased to see that the european parliament is stronger and more vital than ever. there has been a very large number of speeches, of specific questions, which it would be impossible to deal with in their entirety in my reply, unless we were to prolong this sitting in an absolutely unacceptable way. let me make a compromise and in my speech i will address some of the issues which i consider to be more relevant and which need to be clarified. i am committed to ensuring that each and every one of the specific questions raised by members will be answered at the final, balancing and judging session of the spanish rotating presidency at the end of the six months, and i therefore hope to satisfy all the honourable members on some of the specific points which i have noted. let me say a few words about the speeches by my fellow citizens, the spanish members of the european parliament. i would like to thank the spanish people's party for its support, expressed in this sitting, confirmed in the national political debate, signed through a non-legislative proposal, which is undoubtedly an extraordinarily positive factor for our task and which shows the common european will, the joint effort and the work we are prepared to carry out for the benefit of this very difficult time we are living in facing the economic crisis. i want to make a reference to immigration. there have been some honourable members who have made it clear what immigration policy is and even that there had been no reference, and it is true that there was no reference in my speech, in short, one has to choose the priorities. it has been expressly suggested that i am in favour of mass immigration and that is flatly false. what i am in favour of is massive respect for the human rights of all people, wherever they come from. (applause) we have a european pact on immigration, promoted and signed under the french presidency. we must adhere to this pact, and it certainly includes border control, cooperation and political dialogue with the countries of origin of immigration as the best way to prevent this mass flow of immigrants. but i must say that integration is part of the policy of the european pact for migration, integration, respect for the rights of immigrants. and i speak on behalf of a country that has experienced immigration, in recent years in a very intense way, not in vain, since the year 2000 until now, the spanish population has increased by 6 million people, and has also experienced emigration, in the stage of the dictatorship, economic emigration to many european countries. we know well, from experience, what it is like to have to go outside your homeland in search of a future, a minimum of economic dignity. we know that it is a hard and difficult drink and we know that the height of countries, the height of nations, is measured not only by their political, military or economic power, but that the height of nations and the height of europe is also measured by the treatment and respect for human rights, for people who come to work on our land to seek a future that they do not have in their own. (applause) and, furthermore, the european union should know -- and knows -- that by 2025, 30 percent of its population will be over 65. this will not happen in any other area or region of the world. we will be the area, the continent with the highest number of people over 65 years old, and this will produce a decrease in our productive capacity, a decrease in the working population, in the capacity to work, and it will put pressure on our social protection systems. europe needs workers in the medium term. beyond the crisis, it needs workers; it needs to bring more women into the labour market and it needs that extension of the labour force to maintain its social protection. this is a fundamental reflection. secondly, subsidiarity and languages. of course we will be faithful to the implementation of the treaty of lisbon and i remember that it was my government that promoted the use of co-official languages in my country in the european institutions. but there is no doubt that the institutional balance is now a major factor in the implementation of the lisbon treaty. there have been some comments, i think unfair i have to say, it's true that very isolated. as president of the rotating presidency i have expressed, expressed, supported and will continue to express my support for the institutional role of the permanent president of the council, of course, of the high representative and the maximum cooperation of the commission. the new powers of the european parliament will be activated by the spanish rotating presidency, in full collaboration with the president of the commission, who has consistently demonstrated his continuous working relationship with this parliament. i am referring to the work done by mr durão barroso. i've been reprimanded for giving him my support. i have supported him and i support him because i have seen him work for a strong and united europe, and that is very important, beyond ideological positions. thirdly, the financial system, tax havens and new regulation and supervision. i have not mentioned this because i have not exhausted all the issues, but i fully agree with the application of the new financial supervision and regulation rules. as regards the demand for the disappearance of tax havens, the rotating presidency will be firm and demanding. (applause) and, of course, it will encourage, encourage and require all countries to make progress on the necessary conventions for tax transparency and for facilitating information in the international community. on climate change, the council will be analysing the copenhagen summit on 11 february, with the help of the commission, and of course the european union must continue to take steps towards a strategy that will lead to a progressive agreement in favour of reducing climate change. i am in favour of the european union knowing how to intelligently combine its own ambition for 2020 or for the period 2020-2030 with the requirement for other actors to reduce their emissions. in the interests of european unity, in the interests of a common strategy, we must entrust this task to the european commission. and i fully agree that the united states and china are the two key players so that we can see a much more active horizon. i am of course fully convinced that the common agricultural policy must include fisheries and that the social pact, to which some of the honourable members have referred, must be revised, changed to incorporate the interests, the legitimate representation and the constructive position of a large part of those who represent workers in europe. to the workers, to the trade unions, who are the expression of the european social pact which has made us the region with the greatest welfare, the greatest prosperity in the last decades after the second world war. (applause) the future of the european union and european prosperity cannot be written without workers, without social rights and without social welfare policies and therefore we must actively incorporate them. there has been some question in the field of foreign policy. middle east, latin america singularly and an allusion to israel. we hope, in these six months, to make progress on an agreement on the middle east. we know that peace in the middle east is a necessary, basic condition for peace in other areas of the region, where terror and conflict have spread, fuelled by radicalism, by ideological and religious fanaticism. the european union will play its part by contributing to this peace process through its commitment to resuming dialogue. we know what the horizon is and what the conditions are. we know that the fundamental condition for such a dialogue must be the recognition of the palestinian state. (applause) to work with israel is to want to work for peace. if we do not work with israel, despite the criticism it deserves in many of its actions, we will not be able to see the horizon of peace. working with the palestinians is working for their right to a state, to a territory, to be able to see the horizon of prosperity and to address all the outstanding issues. and we will do so with determination and, of course, with the collaboration of the other major international actors. it's about latin america. latin america is a young continent, full of vitality and with a great future. it brings together 500 million people and has a great european imprint, not only spanish, a great european imprint because there are values of democracy, values of progress, after a period and some difficulties in consolidating what represents their stability, their consolidation as nations. and at the latin america summit we want to reach or move towards trade agreements with mercosur, central america and the andean community, all in the interests of development, in the interests of progress, both for latin america and for european economic interests, which, in my view, must also be defended. european interests i was asked, at the same time as a reference was made, which has been shared by other honourable members, to the policies of equality between men and women in the union as a good example and as a policy of citizenship. that is the european interest. the european interests which i defend in foreign policy action are those which have to do with the values of what europe stands for, which has its genesis in the enlightenment and in all the cultural, religious and civic traditions which have flourished and developed in europe. normalization is tolerance, normalization is respect, and the european tradition, the best european tradition, makes this land the land of religious, ideological, political and cultural freedom, and that freedom requires tolerance and equal treatment of all religions and beliefs, and therefore democracy will be a full democracy. (applause) mr president, i simply wanted to refer to some very isolated interventions that have been made about my country, about spain, from other countries, in particular a reference by mr langen, to which i am obliged to reply, a very specific reference about spain, about our economic characteristics. i must say that when i began my speech this morning, i spoke as a european country, a europeanist country, grateful to be in the european union, grateful to the countries which facilitated our entry into the european union and which had undergone a great transformation and made great progress in these 25 years. so much so, that since we joined the european union, we have cut the difference in per capita income by 15 points, and are now above the eu average. it has been thanks to the efforts of many spaniards, their workers, their companies. and now, after all this progress, we are experiencing the economic crisis with its effect on employment. it is true that we have a high unemployment rate, as happened in the crisis of the 1970s or in the crisis of the 1990s. it has been a feature of our country, just as, when there is growth, we create more jobs than other countries. but i can assure mr langen that if the unemployment rate were to rise tomorrow in his country, whoever is in power, my response as a political leader, as prime minister and as a europeanist would be one of support and solidarity, not of recrimination, as you have done in this chamber. (applause) it would be of support and solidarity. that is how i feel and how i am european, because of the admiration i have for your country and i hope that this will not happen. in short, mr president, we are going to work in this presidency to make a european project of solidarity, cooperation, greater economic union - and i am grateful for the references to mr almunia, among other things, because he has been proposed by me for the responsibilities he assumes, reforms and convictions. and we know that in these six months this parliament will have the cooperation, the respect and the appreciation of my country and my government and that at the end of this presidency i will be here, i will give an exhaustive account and i will answer all the questions that we have developed during these six months, with respect and solidarity. (applause) i would like to thank
thank you, prime minister, for your speech. our cooperation, the european parliament's cooperation with the spanish presidency, is very important. it's about making laws, which is why successive presidencies are necessary for us to be able to legislate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. i am very pleased that the neighbourhood policy is one of the priorities of the spanish presidency. i know how important it is for spain to develop cooperation with the mediterranean countries and the concept of a union for the mediterranean. i understand that this is the case for many of the eu's neighbouring countries and important economic partners. i was all the more pleased to hear prime minister zapatero and other representatives of the spanish presidency say that they want to continue the efforts of their predecessors (especially the czechs and swedes) to develop cooperation with the eu's eastern neighbours. in particular, with countries covered by the eastern partnership programme proposed by poland and sweden. in this context, i would like to appeal to the presidency and personally to prime minister zapatero to take a special interest in the situation in belarus. it is of the utmost importance to rethink the strategy towards belarus and to monitor its internal policy. as the eu, we should demand that the belarusian authorities respect human rights and change their attitude towards civil society institutions. the prime minister stressed the importance of human rights. unfortunately, prisoners of conscience are still being held in belarus, and the authorities' attitude towards the democratic opposition, the free media and non-governmental organisations, including those of national minorities, is far from european standards. the eu and belarus have agreed to cooperate in the field of human rights and democracy in the eastern partnership.
in writing. one of the priorities of the spanish presidency is the economic recovery of the eu, to be achieved through the adoption and implementation of the european sustainable development strategy by 2020. the document presented by the commission shows that the main objective is to promote a knowledge-based economy and a more environmentally friendly one. the spanish idea was to introduce a system of financial penalties, such as reducing subsidies from the eu budget, for countries that fail to meet the objectives of the strategy. spain is now backing away from this idea in response to the resistance of many countries and communities. but i have a question: why was there no consultation before announcing such a revolutionary idea? does spain not realise, in the light of its experience, that poorer countries may have difficulty in pursuing such ambitious goals not because they are unwilling but because they are unable? do you not think that the introduction of additional penalties will have the opposite effect, leading to even greater disparities in the development of individual regions and thus weakening the union as a whole? we all want a strong union, and a strong union is made up of strong elements. the policy of equalizing regional disparities is working, let us not squander its results on drastic measures.
in writing. thank you for your words in your inaugural address. however, it did not explicitly address the problem of huge deficits. i cannot imagine that the spanish presidency would not have taken up this problem and made it one of its priorities. prime minister zapatero, not only the situation in greece, but also in spain and other countries seems to be your most important task. are you not afraid that if you don't put the public finances in order in spain, there won't be enough money to buy your electric cars? you must know that the reckless policy of some european governments, including the spanish government, is reducing europe's competitiveness, reducing the number of jobs in europe, and making it impossible to enlarge the eurozone to include new countries, because of its internal instability. please take this challenge seriously. it's your duty.
on paper. the spanish presidency coincides with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. the relationship between the permanent president of the council and the high representative of the council of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy and the other community institutions and the leaders of the member states will depend to a large extent on the presidency to come. i would like to call for the new institutions to be given the maximum degree of autonomy, in accordance with the letter of the treaty and the spirit of the reforms that have been carried out. it is important that the european union speaks with one voice on the international stage. more importantly, however, this voice must not be disregarded but must set new trends and have a key influence on the decisions taken. the presidency must now work to create a climate that will allow decisions to be taken at cop16 in line with the european union's position, so that the situation at cop15 does not recur. the union must also speak with one voice in the fight against the crisis and in the construction of a new financial order. the presidency's task is to oversee all intellectual reflections on the changes in the european economic and social model resulting from the lessons of the current economic crisis. i, for my part, count on the presidency's generous support for the work on the reform of the common agricultural policy. it will soon be one of the most important political issues in the european union.
on paper. the spanish presidency's roadmap includes important and necessary objectives to achieve, so that we can feel secure in a competitive and economically strong europe. i think there are three things that are most important: 1. decisive and rapid action to curb the rise in unemployment. the creation of new jobs requires a lot of preparatory work and a lot of financial support (e.g. for market research, training). 2010 is the best time to upgrade and possibly re-skill, in line with the demands of the economy emerging from the crisis. 2.combating domestic violence, including the proposed draft directive on the eu protection of victims of domestic violence. the scale of this phenomenon in europe leaves no doubt that many women feel least safe in their own homes. it is absurd and embarrassing for the eu countries that they are not dealing with such a major social problem. this is largely the fault of politicians who do not oppose violence against women sufficiently and often pretend that it does not exist to such a large extent. the compromise of the right in the european parliament was the lack of support for the resolution against violence against women. fortunately, the resolution passed with the votes of the left. 3.further action to combat discrimination, including progress on a new directive against discrimination in its various forms, and stronger penalties for countries that delay in implementing eu anti-discrimination legislation.
in writing. once again, the spanish presidency of the union is at a turning point. eight years ago, in the first half of 2002, spain faced the challenge of adopting the euro as its single currency. the spanish presidency now has an equally important task to fulfil: implementing the provisions of the lisbon treaty. the division of powers between the presidency of the member state concerned and the president of the european council will be of great importance. the priority given to a foreign policy that strengthens the union's position on the world stage deserves support. but will the newly appointed high representative for foreign and security policy do so? these concerns are rooted in ms. ashton's statements, her past, and her first actions in this position. it is hard to convince anyone that the fight against the crisis and its negative economic and social consequences is still necessary. this is particularly in the interest of spain, which has been particularly badly hit by the recession. how can we get back to the stability and growth pact, for both large and small member states? how to coordinate the fight against the crisis in europe and the world? the treaty of lisbon also provides for cooperation within the framework of the 'troika' presidency. spain will have to coordinate its work with belgium and hungary. it will be particularly important to ensure a smooth transition between presidencies so that continuity of work is maintained. i wish the spanish presidency success!
in writing. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to extend a very warm welcome to the spanish presidency. i have to admit, i have very high expectations for this presidency. firstly, because energy security was one of the priorities of the spanish presidency. i accept that fact with the utmost satisfaction. it's a topic that should be the priority of every next presidency. i would like to stress the importance of the solidarity action plan. the continuation and acceleration of its implementation is of the utmost importance. i agree with the spanish presidency's assumptions about action to stop climate change. i would like to stress the importance of coordinated information to all eu citizens about the possibilities of taking action on climate change. as the recent copenhagen summit showed, the will of politicians alone cannot change much. we therefore need to engage europeans as fully as possible and convince them that climate change is not an abstract process but, on the contrary, affects each of us individually and all of us together.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, spain will hold the presidency of the european union for the fourth time. however, for the first time, it will work on new lines, for the first time it will link up with the new institutions provided for by the lisbon treaty. the current circumstances give particular importance to the role of spain and increase its responsibility, as the financial crisis and the transformation of europe coincide with the entry into force of the treaty. after a moderately successful czech presidency and professional swedes, europe's eyes are on the iberian peninsula. the priorities presented, namely work on the rights of the european citizen; economic recovery and financial surveillance; the enforcement of justice and the development of internal security strategies for the countries of the old continent, all with the full implementation of the new treaty, are very ambitious. spain has a huge opportunity and a great challenge to translate these new laws into concrete actions and to adapt to the dynamically changing situation in the world. it is not easy to lead the european union in the midst of the global financial crisis. i look forward to the results all the more and wish you success in implementing the 'new europe' project. thank you!
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? we have evaluated mr diamandouros' work as ombudsman in the european parliament virtually every year in connection with his annual reports, and the evaluations have always been very good. during his two terms in office, mr diamandouros took a number of initiatives to raise the profile of the ombudsman's office, which resulted in an increasing number of citizens benefiting from his services. the latest figures, from 2008, show 3406 complaints compared to 3211 the previous year. it is worth noting that the ombudsman did not confine himself to dealing with complaints that were admissible for formal reasons, but also provided information on the possibility of exercising rights in the case of complaints that did not fall within his competence. mr diamandouros also initiated a very valuable cooperation between ombudsmen from the different member states, which allowed the exchange of information and good practices. on his initiative, so-called liaison officers have been appointed to the national ombudsman offices and information on the implementation and application of eu law is published in the ombudsman newsletter. i therefore warmly congratulate mr diamandouros on his achievements to date and on his re-election as european ombudsman, and look forward to a fruitful cooperation during the current term of office of the european parliament.
in writing. - today we have decided to elect a european ombudsman. this choice is of the utmost importance to the citizens of the european union. the european ombudsman is a human rights defender. it deals with complaints from eu citizens about irregularities in the european institutions. this gives europeans a measure of control over every body, office, institution and agency of the union. that's why it's so important that our citizens are aware of their rights. they need to know that, with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, their influence on the functioning of the eu institutions has increased. in addition, the new ombudsman said that the european ombudsman's cooperation with the other european institutions was to be strengthened. it is also welcome that citizens of the new member states are making use of the possibility to lodge complaints, as evidenced by the relatively high number of complaints in previous years. this shows that the citizens of the new member states are interested in the european union and are not indifferent to it.
in writing. − in accordance with article 255 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the european parliament is one of the institutions which propose the members of the committee responsible for giving an opinion on candidates for the office of judge and advocate general at the european court of justice. since the committee is composed of only seven members and their role is very responsible, it is important that they have an impeccable reputation and high competence. as a member of the european parliament, with the new powers granted by the treaty of lisbon, i have influence over the selection of one of the seven persons on this panel and i welcome the candidacy of mrs ana isabel de palacio y del valle-lersundi. as a member of the european parliament for eight years, ms palacio was twice elected by her fellow members to the conference of commission presidents. she was also chair of the committee on legal affairs and internal market and the committee on justice and home affairs. her other professional achievements, such as being a senior adviser to the world bank and spain's first female foreign minister, also leave no doubt that she will be the right person in the right position.
mr. chairman, please! we have to accept the fact that nobody (except for a few european countries) wants to pay for reducing co2 emissions or reducing energy consumption. even worse, some developing countries, using irritating anti-colonial rhetoric, want to make a fortune from this while being the biggest emitters of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. african countries, china, india want to stay out of the loop, not be subject to the international emissions monitoring system, and at the same time receive billions of euros for clean technologies. it's a position that's indefensible to our taxpayers. after copenhagen, we must make it clear that europe cannot bear these costs alone. first, because acting alone will further slow down our economy and harm the well-being of our citizens. second, acting alone will not change the emissions, because we have already reduced our own emissions.
mr. chairman, please! the climate and the natural environment are the property of all people, including future generations, and we must therefore feel responsible for protecting them. at the last climate summit, world leaders failed to agree on a common strategy and instruments to achieve this. paradoxically, i think this is not bad news in the light of the disturbing information coming from, among others, the united kingdom and the united states, about attempts to manipulate scientific data to achieve a specific result by certain lobbying circles. we need a reliable diagnosis of the situation. so i call for an independent international panel of experts to produce a credible report to determine whether human activity is actually affecting climate change and whether the data has been falsified. eu policymakers should also take into account the economic disparities between western and eastern europe when defining a common climate strategy. in the face of crisis, the proposed measures could lead to the ruin of many economies.
mr president, minister, commissioner, i have to tell you that i am not going to let you go. the spanish presidency has decided to prepare an assessment of the copenhagen climate conference, which we are talking about here, which many say has ended in failure. but failure doesn't have to be a failure. sometimes you have to learn from failure and see what really caused it. the european union's current negotiating strategy on climate protection needs to be reviewed, as preparations are under way for the next summit in mexico in december this year. the question is: should the reduction target be increased if the objective so far in these negotiations has not been achieved? we need to find partners for the current target, and for the increased target, we don't have any. it is therefore important to note that without the united states, china and india, as has been said many times in this chamber during this debate, there will be no success in the objectives set by the european union at the copenhagen summit. it's going to be the same in mexico. we have to evaluate the declaration of our other parties by first and foremost upholding the climate conference as the main forum for negotiating the agreement, regardless of critical assessments whether the un forum is appropriate, good, efficient, etc. we want a green economy, one that is environmentally sound, that develops new sources of energy, new technologies for producing and saving energy. at the same time, we know that the cheapest energy is unused energy, and therefore rationality. and that's the last sentence, reducing carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases is not going to be done through expensive technologies. often, what we have in the supply, the forests and the soils, can also be a great place to absorb, and to absorb biologically and efficiently.
mr. chairman, please! it must be admitted that the tactics used by the european union so far (including at the copenhagen summit) have been wrong. it was a tactic of putting all the cards on the table and believing that if we embraced ambitious goals, others would follow. the bidding that also took place here in parliament, whether to cut emissions by 40 or 50 percent, was wrong. this is a bit like the cold war negotiations, where some political forces believed that unilateral disarmament would cause the soviet union to disarm as well. we must change our tactics and be decisive in our talks with the world powers - china, the united states - and possibly threaten what our colleagues in france are talking about, namely a carbon tax on the borders of the european union. our companies must be competitive in the world. new technologies, including technology . . . (the president cut the speaker off)
mr. chairman, please! the copenhagen summit showed a different way of looking at climate change. the real challenge was not to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but to propose effective mechanisms to promote their reduction. the european community has been a leader in reducing co2 emissions and remains a benchmark for achieving them globally. it is therefore worth proposing a balanced approach within the european union, which would allow the financing of the relevant own actions within the union to take priority. the funds would come from a union fund created in solidarity by all the countries, which would be charged proportionally on the basis of national gdp per capita. this would ensure that each country contributed equally without unnecessary complications. the priority would be to finance actions that, at the lowest cost, would contribute to the actual reduction of emissions.
mr. chairman, please! following the criticisms of scientists about the reliability of the ipcc's conclusions and the revelation of falsified data, which undoubtedly affected the outcome of the copenhagen conference, i asked the commission about possible verification studies. in his reply, commissioner dimas stated that: 'the ipcc assessment is the expression of a consensus reached by thousands of scientists'. so i ask, in the science of outcomes, is it consensus that decides, and are scientific conclusions the result of a vote? in the case of climategate, the commissioner stated that 'the european commission is of the view that this does not affect the clear and reasoned conclusions contained in the ipcc report'. so my question is, what conclusions do you draw from the falsified data? i think we need an unbiased study to verify the impact of co2. because without scientific credibility in mexico, we're gonna have another setback.
in writing. the failure of the climate summit exposed europe's weakness and the naivety of its political elites. it showed that on the global stage, we are just one of many players. why were the co2 proposals not acceptable? because they harm the interests of developing countries, they ignore competition for military and economic primacy in the world, they unfairly divide the rights to use the common good of the earth, they are based on the unreliable hypothesis of the harmfulness of co2 launched by the ipcc, and the so-called "evidence" has been manipulated (climategate affair). science cannot be politically driven, but must take all the evidence into account and answer all the questions that can be asked. and has anyone ever asked themselves, for example, what would happen if there was no co2 in the atmosphere? let's just be happy that we've had a warm period in our planet's modern history and that we currently have about 370 to 380 ppm of co2 in the atmosphere. in physical chemistry, we know the le chatelier equilibrium law, which creates the ideal conditions for photosynthesis. the land is becoming greener, as has been repeatedly shown, and this guarantees greater yields and conditions for growth. and let's keep it that way, although unfortunately, there are many indications that we're going to see a cooling over the next two decades. conclusion: the european union should immediately review its restrictive climate and energy package, as it reduces the competitiveness of its economy.
in writing. climate change is one of the major issues facing the world today. there was a climate summit in copenhagen recently that was dedicated to this issue. meanwhile, we learned that the climate research department at the university of east anglia, one of the most prestigious institutions in the world dedicated to the study of global warming and the impact of human activity on this process, has leaked the contents of several thousand documents and emails, including correspondence between scientists from different countries whose research has had a key impact on the european union and the united nations' position on climate change. the disclosures suggest that the results of the studies may have been manipulated and, as a result, that the information on the greenhouse effect and climate change may have been inaccurate. eu countries, and therefore our societies, are bearing the serious costs of greenhouse gas emissions. at copenhagen, efforts were made to make the developed countries of the eu bear even more of the financial burden of global warming, thereby supporting the developing countries. any doubts in this respect should be clarified in detail. not even to convince those who doubt the validity of measures to reduce emissions, but because european taxpayers are and will be paying the enormous costs involved and need to be sure that these measures are based on credible evidence.
yeah, that's exactly what i'm saying. we know very well that the situation varies greatly from country to country. so, as far as aid to businesses is concerned, i wanted to ask a question about the situation in greece, because that country is facing the worst crisis today. are there any special measures planned there?
acting president of the council. - the european union is a region in the world where solidarity is exercised in a very visible way. for example, in the case of greece, or in the case of my country, spain, we have had a great deal of solidarity from the european union, through the european funds, through the structural funds, which are essential elements of the european solidarity policy that will continue. it has no parallel in other situations in the world. this has enabled clear progress to be made in many countries, which benefits all countries, the opening up of markets and, at the same time, the transfer of certain quantities to modernise a region. that is a clear example of solidarity. funds which must of course be used correctly and which are controlled by the european union, as is absolutely logical. so there is solidarity. and another form of solidarity is that which we can see very clearly in the treaty. you have referred specifically to the treaty. the treaty requires member states to coordinate their economic, social and employment policies. article 5 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union says it very clearly and there too the solidarity of the european union is expressed: in joint reflection and joint adoption of objectives with a view to an economic policy which must be coordinated. many of the problems that are now in various european countries as a result of the crisis would not have occurred with such intensity if there had been an economic union much earlier, because the economic union stopped. monetary union went ahead, but economic union came to a standstill and the synergies of economic policy coordination in the european union, which is what we must do, did not take place. in the final analysis, that is what the treaty proposes. the europe 2020 strategy, the objectives we must share on investments in education, on job specialisation and on the fight against climate change are also elements to be shared and also of solidarity. solidarity is also expressed there in a very clear way on a continent, in a european union which must always be as united as possible. but that does not, of course, prevent the treaty from also, quite logically, requiring responsibility on the part of the states for the level of their debt or for the credits they take on. that is, of course, the responsibility of each state. but there is a whole context of a market, of social policies, of structural policies, of regional policies and, in the future, i hope, of coordination of economic, social and employment policies, which is undoubtedly a context of solidarity. that is the most appropriate, the most profound and the most far-reaching form of a solidarity policy in the union.
i would like to ask a question, however, because you, mr minister, have said that the very difficult situation in greece will be discussed at the commission's meeting in february this year. it is true that this is a very serious crisis within greece, but we all know very well that it can unfortunately spread. my question is: in addition to the commission's discussions, should you not also have a more substantive discussion with the european central bank? i think it's also an important body that should be here, when it comes to the situation in greece, more active.
madam president! the promise of eu membership has long been the driving force behind democratic change in turkey. however, after 2005, turkish support for eu membership fell from 70% to just 42%. in this context, the further democratization of turkey does indeed require ever closer cooperation with the european union. turkey has achieved a great deal - my colleagues have said this - and this deserves our recognition, but there are still areas where we should pay particular attention. this is a matter of the freedom of the press already mentioned and a matter of the freedom of the electronic media. for example, the osce reports that turkey blocks 3,700 websites. another important issue is women's access to public life. turkey's constitution bans women from entering universities in traditional headscarves, even though 70% of women wear them. this struggle between secularism and democracy is a real challenge for turkey. i would also like to refer to the kurds, namely the recognition of them as a national minority. the solutions proposed by the turkish government are not satisfactory. although their language has been recognized, article 42 of the turkish constitution still prohibits the teaching of kurdish as the mother tongue in educational institutions. it is important to develop cooperation with both the parliament and the government, but also to support local ngos, social initiatives, local government partnerships. we need to deepen cooperation between institutions, but let's remember that, especially when we talk about the development of democracy, the world is really changing the relationships between ordinary citizens.
madam president! i support turkey's membership of the european union, but i would like to condemn the decision of the turkish constitutional court in december to delegate the dtp party. the ruling was argued by the alleged links of the party to the terrorist pkk. i know we live in a time where security is paramount, but civil liberties should not suffer because of it. as we know, this party has represented kurdish interests in the turkish parliament since 2007. although it did so in a symbolic way through 20 meps, it has been an important witness in recent years to the process of settling the kurdish question that has begun in turkey. the dtp's presence in parliament was not a threat, but one that was politically balanced. i think, however, that we should not yet speak of destabilisation, because the conflict with the kurds is old and no aspect of it has really shaken turkey yet. i don't think that's going to happen now, and i don't think it's going to happen. the government has done a lot of good in the past and it's hard to talk about an anti-kurdish agenda. however, the turkish-kurdish peace process has suffered a serious setback. the ban on the party is a typical political ploy, the verdict not only sets back turkish-kurdish relations by years, but is a step backwards for the whole process of democratization.
madam president! despite the progress made by turkey on the path to accession, much remains to be done in the democratization process. a resolution adopted by the european parliament last year expressed concern about the situation of freedom of expression in turkey and deplored the limited progress made in the area of religious freedom. parliament insisted then and is now urging the turkish government to establish a legal framework in line with the european convention on human rights, allowing non-muslim religious and alevi communities to operate without undue restrictions. the union was concerned by the decision of the turkish constitutional court to delegate the democratic society party, which had 21 deputies in the turkish parliament, after the adoption of the said resolution in december 2009. the pretext for the banning of this party was alleged links to the kurdish pkk.
madam president, today many of the challenges we face do not respect borders, either political or administrative. the numbers of shared problems and challenges has grown in europe and so has the need to address them through shared efforts. that is why the european commission, inspired by the european parliament and in response to the council’s decision, elaborated the baltic sea strategy and has now embarked on the process of preparing the danube strategy. these strategies allow the regions and countries involved to jointly respond to existing problems and to jointly exploit existing opportunities. thanks to these strategies, there is a chance to have more and deeper cooperation and cohesion in the union and, through this, more growth and jobs, improved competitiveness and better quality of life for our citizens. we in the regi committee of the european parliament expect that the danube strategy will be an action-oriented strategy based on better coordination amongst stakeholders, as well as on better exploitation of synergies between policies and funds available on the ground. as the chair of the regi committee, the lead ep committee for this strategy, i can assure you, commissioner, of our support and of our openness to achieving good cooperation with the commission at all stages in the life of the danube strategy.
madam president! i have the impression from listening to the debate that we are mostly discussing objectives, directions and priorities, but there are fundamental questions about how to implement. will we be dealing with a horizontal policy which uses the instruments of different policies with one policy as the lead, or will we rather be dealing with a system of cooperation and cooperation without separate specific instruments and without a separate institutional system? these are very serious questions, so as not to disappoint the expectations that are being set for this strategy. we need to know exactly whether we are dealing with a new macro-regional methodology or with a system of enhanced territorial cooperation. these are questions we need to answer as soon as possible.
madam president! the european union's strength lies in the cooperation of countries and regions to solve common problems and implement development programmes. we have good examples of this, such as the mediterranean partnership, the baltic sea strategy and the european strategy for the danube region, which is being discussed today. this idea is a very good example of a territorial cohesion policy that is based on the sustainability of the environment, the economy and society. this initiative will certainly contribute to further cooperation between the old and new members and possible future members of the union. we have many initiatives and forms of cooperation of this kind. it is therefore necessary to seek to harmonise the union's policies and to focus on strengthening the community character of the strategy. how does the union intend to strengthen and consolidate existing cooperation programmes in the region? what is the state of play of the strategy and its implementation?
mr. chairman, please! tunisia is undoubtedly a partner with whom we should maintain our relations within the union for the mediterranean and on a bilateral basis. but, with economic considerations in mind, we should be more demanding as the european union of the transparency of democratic procedures and the rule of law in this country. although tunisia is a stable country, it is not a country where all democratic standards are respected. international ngos report that security forces torture prisoners and operate with impunity under the protection of high-ranking officials. freedom of the press and freedom of speech are severely restricted, and the situation of journalists is described as one of the worst in all arab countries. repression is often religious in nature. they are increasingly concerned about the persecution of the christian minority. the tunisian government does not tolerate dissent or independent opposition. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been involved in the fight against organised crime, including the use of child pornography. the eu is committed to the implementation of the un charter and the un convention on the rights of the child.
author. − mr president, the information about violence against christians in egypt and malaysia is just the tip of the iceberg. there are three points i want to raise. first, christians have become the victims of brutal violence in many countries of the world, not just two. second, christians have become the single most persecuted religious group in the world. the numbers are astounding – in the millions, not thousands or hundreds of thousands. third, the reaction of european societies, european governments and the eu has so far been unsatisfactory: timid, faint-hearted, pusillanimous, politically correct, or no reaction at all. we must act resolutely, or else those who persecute christians will think they have our tacit blessing. do we really want this?
mr. chairman, please! we have spoken quite a lot in parliament about the different types of phobias and their negative social effects. i mean xenophobia and homophobia. unfortunately, these two cases are not the only ones in the catalogue of phobias. there is also a phenomenon called "christianophobia" - the phobia of christianity. as with other phobias, the social consequences are negative and sometimes tragic, and that is why we should address the violations of the rights of christians in different parts of the world. we're reaching out to people of all faiths, even those who are non-believers. christians too can be concerned. we do this because religious freedom is one of the fundamental values of the european union. that is why we condemn and will continue to condemn all forms of violence, discrimination and intolerance against priests and followers of different religions. violence committed because of the victim's beliefs is abhorrent and undoubtedly deserves our criticism.
mr. chairman, please! religious freedom has been a right enshrined in international and european human rights conventions for over 50 years. at the same time, for many years we have seen a growing wave of religious hatred, which has affected christians in particular throughout the world. today, the place of anti-christian communism has been taken by militant islam. egypt and malaysia have constitutional guarantees of religious freedom, but under pressure from radical islamic circles, the religious freedom of christians is not sufficiently protected by the governments. the european union, with its new foreign policy instruments, must do more to combat the christophobia that is the incitement to beatings, robberies and murders. it is only ideological prejudice that makes the european union hesitant to do so today. our credibility is at stake.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to support the idea of my colleague mr prover, who has spoken about the need for a report on religious freedom. i would like to remind you that during the previous term of office, i proposed, together with mario mauro, that a report be drawn up on the situation of christians in countries where they are a minority, in countries which are predominantly islamic. unfortunately, the bureau of parliament did not accept this proposal, but it may be worth it. i repeat that conclusion here. the resolution we are adopting today should be a strong one. the coptic minority represents 10% of the egyptian population, but even if it were 0.5%, it is the role of the european parliament to react, especially in a situation where human rights are being so drastically violated. i have carefully read the letter addressed by the people's assembly marshal to the chairman of the party. in his letter, he assures me that the events i have described were incidental. i find that hard to believe. copts have been persecuted in egypt for many years. let us make sure that this time our help to the oppressed minority does not end in empty declarations.
mr. chairman, please! it's not just egypt, it's not just malaysia, but in africa, sudan, nigeria, a number of other countries, a number of asian countries and societies, they treat christians as a necessary evil, and sometimes as an enemy. let us not hide these facts, acting like ostriches who bury their heads in the sand. this is a real problem and the parliament of christian europe, of christian tradition and heritage must speak out. but let's also hit our own chest. my predecessor was right a moment ago to speak of the sins of neglecting the parliament of the last term. i would like to remind you of the debate a few weeks ago, when we rightly condemned the attacks, the oppression that the uighur muslim minority in china has experienced. but then some political groups rejected the amendments, which were meant to emphasize that christians in china also suffer, are discriminated against. it cannot be that we defend some religious minorities and others we defend a little less or not at all.
in writing. 2010 is another year that begins with bloody persecution of christians in many parts of the world. as a european parliament we cannot be passive in the face of these crimes and acts of violence. the situation of christians is also dire in countries not mentioned in today's resolution, such as north korea, iraq, india and sudan. attacks on catholics increase in vietnam as a member of parliament from poland, a country with a deep christian tradition and a long tradition of respect and coexistence between many religious communities, he expresses his solidarity with the families of the victims. the egyptian and malaysian authorities must guarantee christians and members of other communities and religious minorities the enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms under the threat of sanctions by the european union. for this reason, we should support the resolution on the recent attacks on christian communities.
in writing. i voted for a resolution condemning the violation of human rights because we cannot tolerate and accept the violation of human rights, either as people or as citizens. the treatment of people, their freedom and the rights they have been given for many years is contrary to the foundations on which western democracies were built. the dialogue that was launched between the european union and china in 2000 did not produce the expected results. we should therefore ask ourselves whether we have done all we can do and, if the answer is no, follow the provisions of the resolution on the effectiveness of economic cooperation. let human rights be the basis of the dialogue between the union and china and let the interests of the people take precedence over economic interests. the arrest and conviction of liu xiaobo, a peace activist and human rights defender who has called for greater democratization in china, is a clear signal that our efforts so far have not been effective. so it's worth taking steps beyond resolutions to make it possible to respect more what liu xiaobo, thousands of chinese people, and many people around the world are fighting for. thirty years ago, reforms were initiated in china that showed the world that something was changing, that you could do some work for the society. today we expect the same. today we want to have as a partner a country that respects the principles that are fundamental to us.
mr. chairman, please! presidential and local elections in the philippines are scheduled for may 10. now, all measures must be taken to ensure that this election is fair. the first priority is to find those responsible for the november killing of a group of 57 journalists, family members and associates of esmail mangudadatu, a candidate for governor of mindanao province. so far, the justice system has shown no determination to find the perpetrators of this massacre. so many mistakes were made in the investigation that it almost sanctioned the use of force in politics. the philippine government is finally facing the criminal world that has carried out so many political kidnappings and murdered over a hundred candidates in the recent election campaigns. in addition, the philippines should endeavour to make efficient use of the resources available under the union-philippines justice programme, which was established to strengthen the judiciary and build civil society. the may elections will therefore be a test not only of the efficiency of the philippine authorities but also of the effectiveness of our aid instruments.
mr. chairman, please! the european union's business card is the defence of human rights. i very much regret that this visiting card is not important for the spanish presidency, that there are no council representatives here today, at this moment. this is a very disturbing situation, a scandal. we are talking about human rights, we want to defend them, but there are no representatives of the council here, no representatives of the country that will lead the european union for the next six months. this is an absolutely unacceptable situation. very briefly, because we all want to vote: the philippines is a country with a christian heritage that refers to a part of european culture. human rights should be respected in this country in particular, because they are often not respected on this continent. we need to speak up, stand in solidarity with all those who are discriminated against in the philippines. the european parliament's role is to take a vote on this matter.
mr. chairman, please! i voted in favour of the resolution on the european strategy for the danube region because i believe that the european union needs such regional strategies. i am convinced that their implementation can have a very positive impact on regional development and, consequently, on the lives of the people in the region and improve the quality of their lives. and yet it is the citizens of the european union who are the target of our actions, both in this parliament and in the european union. that's why i voted to pass the resolution.
mr. chairman, please! i want to express my satisfaction with the adoption by the european parliament of a resolution on attacks on christian minorities. meps cannot remain silent in the face of attacks on christian minorities around the world, because this is a matter of the foundations and roots of the peoples of the european union. in order to make our voice credible, we should have adopted today two amendments by our group, the epp group, which take a stand against the judgment of the european court of human rights on the cross. i regret that this has not been the case, because we must recall the fundamental role played by christianity in shaping europe's historical and cultural identity and in promoting and protecting these values in the world and in our own european union.
mr. chairman, please! i would also like to talk about the discrimination against christians in africa and asia, but i will, of course, talk about the strategy for a very important issue. remember: the danube is europe's second-largest river, after the volga. the danube flows through ten european countries, and its basin contains as many as seventeen countries. this is of course a matter of some responsibility, of some challenge for the european union, also because some of these countries are currently in a very serious crisis. i am also talking about the member countries of the european union. in this way the european union is showing a certain solidarity. i hope that this will be the case in other situations as well.
mr. chairman, please! i voted for the resolution on the danube strategy. why would you do that? well, this shows that the european union is open to specific regions, to regions that have something in common, like a long river running through them. i am also pleased that the amendments which were tabled by the epp group have not been taken into account. it made our resolution more transparent. i would like to see this resolution followed by a focus on other characteristic regions, including perhaps the oran corridor.
in writing. − the strategy for the trans-danube region that we have developed and voted on today makes it possible to promote regional and crossborder cooperation. the danube river currently connects ten european countries germany, austria, slovakia, hungary, croatia, serbia, bulgaria, romania, moldova and ukraine most of which are member states and eu aspirant countries. the trans-danube region is therefore an important link between the various eu cohesion policy programmes and those for candidate countries and those covered by the european neighbourhood policy. what we have adopted today is a scheme to support the danube basin strategy, but whether the programme will remain on paper or whether this model will be filled with content depends on whether there are additional measures that will not compromise or reduce the pool of funds allocated to cohesion policy in individual countries. i hope that a coherent strategy for the danube region will contribute to increased prosperity, sustainable and sustainable development, generate new jobs and security in the region.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the european strategy for the danube region. territorial cohesion is one of the european union's priorities enshrined in the lisbon treaty. the actions of the strategy for the trans-danube region cover a number of areas of support, such as social policy, culture and education, environmental protection, infrastructure and sustainable economic development. the very fact that the strategy and its solutions have had a major impact on these areas is evidence that regional strategies should be developed and implemented. the trans-dunisian region needs a strategy, it needs our support and our action, because it affects many european countries. six of them are eu member states, and the others are potential candidates. the impact of the region is also important for other countries that are not directly linked to it. the idea of creating functional regions macro-regions was initiated by the baltic sea strategy. the danube strategy, like other planned eu macro-regional strategies, aims primarily at strengthening integration through cooperation at regional and local levels. it is vital that governments, local authorities, ngos and citizens work together with the european union, which they are building with us, to develop and implement the agreed solutions.
in writing. − any community initiative which aims to coordinate and strengthen regional initiatives and contributes to deepening economic cooperation, improving transport infrastructure and protecting the environment deserves support. the strategy for the danube region confirms the growing importance of the macro-regional approach to european union regional policy. the document voted today will strengthen the links between the old, new and possible future eu members on the one hand and central europe and the black sea region on the other. i believe that in the near future, the odra corridor concept will be given similar recognition. it would connect the baltic sea to the adriatic sea, running from sweden through poland, the czech republic, slovakia, hungary, all the way to croatia.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday, 21 january 2010.
it is with great sadness that i have to inform you of the tragic death of ms pilar juarez boal, deputy head of mission of the european union in haiti. ms juarez boal also previously worked in the european parliament until 2002. she died in the tragic earthquake that struck the country on january 12. the total death toll from this earthquake could be as high as 200,000. as you may recall, during our last session a month ago, we observed a minute of silence in memory of all those who died in this earthquake. we did not know then, we were not sure that among them was a person so closely connected with the european parliament and the activities of the european union - mrs juarez boal. yesterday, the second round of the presidential elections in ukraine took place. while awaiting the official confirmation of the results of the vote, i would like to congratulate the citizens of ukraine on the free and fair elections. that's what the reports from the ukraine say. i have not yet had an official statement, but statements from our colleagues in the european parliament who have been observing the elections indicate that, apart from a number of complaints and possibly violations of electoral rules, the absolute majority of the actions of all those involved in the elections were in accordance with the procedure and corresponded to democratic elections. this is a very big achievement of ukraine. we remember that five years ago it was quite different. today we wish ukraine a democratically and peacefully elected president who will act for the good of the country. we also want to establish the best possible relationship with this country. despite the great political instability of recent years, democracy in ukraine has proved to have a solid foundation. i would also like to take this opportunity to call on all ukrainian political forces to overcome their divisions and to start working together on socioeconomic reforms, but also on judicial and constitutional reforms, and to continue the european agenda. i repeat: the european union is very much interested in good, friendly relations with ukraine. this applies to the future government as well as the opposition. we want and expect that there will be joint action on the ukrainian side. this is our common challenge and our common responsibility. on wednesday, there will be a debate on the situation in ukraine after the elections. we'll hear from our colleagues. our delegation to observe the elections was headed by our colleague paweł kowal. they were there, they were watching the vote on sunday, and they're going to share that information with us. we will decide tomorrow on the election of the new european commission. this will be one of the most important moments of this parliament's term. on behalf of our citizens, we will express our will in a democratic vote, and so tomorrow is a very important day. we will also be voting on a resolution on a new cooperation agreement between parliament and the european commission. this agreement has been made available to you. this is a very important act which will determine the cooperation of the two institutions in the next term. on wednesday, we'll have another important debate on the processing and transfer of financial data to the united states for the purpose of tracking terrorist financing. i'll be conducting this debate in person. the european parliament attaches the utmost importance to ensuring that personal data is adequately protected. we have been elected directly by our citizens and this is a responsibility to the citizens, but on the other hand we are aware of the importance of the swift agreement. these priorities should be taken into account by all members of this house in making this important and responsible decision. the vote will take place on thursday. i will not be able to attend because i will be attending the european council in brussels at the time. i'd like to inform you of one more thing.
the final draft agenda, drawn up in accordance with rule 137 of the rules of procedure, was distributed by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 4 february 2010. the following changes are proposed: monday: unchanged tuesday: the group of the european people's party has requested that statements by the council and the commission on the difficult monetary and economic situation in the euro area countries be included on the agenda. these are member states in financial difficulty.
if we agree to such a proposal and we have such an item on the agenda, then the commission representatives will be present. i shall refer this matter to president barroso. does anyone wish to speak against this motion? i can't see. i'm ordering a vote. who among you is in favour of this motion?
that was not an item on the agenda. please do not make any substantive comments while we are setting the agenda and there is no time for that at this time. thursday:the united left group made a proposal for a debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. the group proposes replacing the debate on madagascar with a debate on the death penalty, in particular the case of mumia abu-jamal.
as you suggested, i will analyze the problem thoroughly and make a statement. (parliament rejected the request) (the order of business has been set) other amendments to the agenda: see minutes
the next item on the agenda is a one-minute speech on a major political issue.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to speak on the security of supply of raw materials for farmers, traders and feed and food producers in the european union. one of the key issues that threatens the european supply chain is the lack of a set, acceptable, very low level of presence of gm varieties not yet approved in the european union. according to recent studies, some 120 new varieties of gmos will be grown worldwide by 2015. failure to do so will increase feed and food prices and may consequently lead to the exclusion of many european farmers from the market. the most recent example is the situation in july last year, when traces of genetically modified varieties were found in soybean supplies. this has had a significant impact on the entire feed chain, as europe is unable to meet its needs from domestic production and is forced to import 14 million tonnes of soybeans each year.
mr. chairman, please! the diversification of gas supplies is the basis of the european union's energy security. dependence on one-way supplies will lead to imbalances in the long term, not only in terms of energy security but also in terms of the economy. no one in europe can understand this more than the post-communist countries that are under the constant, the enormous influence of russia. the northern gas pipeline will close the diversification and development of baltic ports, and above all the new diversified source of gas supply for europe, the svinoujst gas port. in addition, the negative impact of the construction of the pipeline also has an environmental aspect. last year's report clearly indicated that the northern gas pipeline would have a negative impact. i call on the commission to re-examine this matter.
mr. chairman, please! as the president has said, we will vote on the appointment of a new european commission. it is indeed, as the president said, a very important moment, a moment of great hope, not only for the european parliamentarians, not only for the european governments, but above all for the citizens of the european union. and in this context, the creation of a common foreign policy for the european union is of particular importance, all the more so the challenge facing baroness ashton in this regard. there are two new challenges. the first thing the president mentioned was ukraine. regardless of the outcome of the elections, a new policy towards ukraine, the european union's policy, will have to be formulated and consistently implemented in order to make it possible for the country to become a member of the european union in the future. but the other thing is belarus. i wanted to tell you that unfortunately, a few hours ago, another human rights violation took place in belarus. belarusian militia entered the house of poland in iwieńce, preventing the activities of the union of poles in belarus.
thank you very much for your words and for drawing our attention to the tragedy that has occurred near us in belgium. it is a tragic accident. we thank you very much and send our deepest sympathies to all the individuals and families who have been affected by this tragedy.
mr. chairman, please! thank you for the opportunity to speak, because i'd like to speak on an important issue related to the costs of climate policy. the european union is consistently designing its climate policy. however, it is important to note that these policies have a major impact on the economies of the member states. given the structural differences in the economies of the different member states, it is becoming increasingly clear that the costs of implementing the strategy will vary widely from one member state to another. at the same time, it is a fact that the new member states with surplus met their commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions under the kyoto protocol. in the case of poland, the reduction was more than 30% compared to the 6% required, and in the case of the 'old fifteen', the reduction was only 1% compared to the 6% commitments accepted. any action taken by the commission must therefore take into account both the differentiated costs of adaptation of the economies of individual member states, the costs that individual countries have incurred so far in reducing greenhouse gas emissions from the kyoto protocol and, finally, to halt those changes that may upset the balance between countries. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr. chairman, please! i'd like to bring up a subject that's already been raised here, but i'd like to reinforce it. at the moment we are sitting here in iwanets, in the polish house, that is, in one of the headquarters of the union of poles in belarus, an illegal search is underway. this is another repression against the polish minority in belarus. i know that the president has already intervened personally on the subject of angelica borys being punished with a very heavy penalty. i would like to thank you very much for this intervention, because it is indeed our duty to support this organisation. i would also like to appeal to the president, but also to the council and the commission, to speak and intervene as soon as possible on the violation of human rights in belarus, the violation of the rights of poles, but above all i say this in the context of the violation of citizens' rights, human rights, which is what should be an important issue for us as the european parliament.
ladies and gentlemen! we have extended our one-minute session by fifteen minutes.
mr. chairman, please! during its sixth term, the european commission adopted a number of legislative proposals to combat tax fraud and tax evasion in the european union. the proposal for a directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation is key. the directive currently in force, having been adopted by virtually all the member states, was undoubtedly a first step towards administrative cooperation in this field, although it clearly lacked concrete results in terms of its implementation. this proposal, on the other hand, seeks to strengthen the internal sovereignty of individual countries in the field of taxation by introducing a more specific and effective management of their own resources derived from taxes, and to deepen the process of european integration, which is becoming increasingly necessary in the field of taxation, from a political, economic and administrative point of view.
madam president! the recent announcements of the redundancies in the member states, including opel, are part of a wider wave of problems in the automotive and other sectors which have recently arisen as a result of the economic crisis. in the context of the automotive sector's problems, the question arises as to whether state subsidies to car companies or other manufacturers are permissible in order to save jobs. in the last couple of months we have had many examples of this kind of protectionism by states towards producers of different goods, as well as different reactions, decisions from the european commission. this was met with mixed public reception. on the one hand, the resulting distortion of competition on the international market was pointed out, while on the other hand the need to combat rising unemployment, which state aid certainly serves, was emphasised. in my view, a more flexible policy is needed in this context of economic crisis, a policy agreed between the member states and the european commission, both for this sector and for others.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. this report, by proposing the widespread introduction of abortion in the european union, infringes the exclusive competence of the member states in this area. but that's not the most important thing to vote against this document. today, it takes no faith to see a man in a human fetus before birth. a simple ultrasound scan, available in every belgian town, even the smallest, is all it takes to see the image of an unborn human on the screen. therefore, any responsible legislator should do everything possible to reduce the number of abortions. the proliferation of abortion is a measure of the decline of our culture, a measure of our departure from humanism. so please consider that before anyone in this room votes for this damaging document.
madam president! the report by mr. mark tarabella on equality between women and men in the european union addresses a number of very important points to the european commission and the member states. the problem of pay discrimination against women and the lack of a legislative proposal from the commission to reduce these differences was once again highlighted. the issue of women working in small family businesses, where they are often not covered by social security, their work is not counted as part of the general working hours and, consequently, do not qualify for a pension, was raised. the importance and need for vocational guidance to activate women who have been excluded from the labour market, very often because of childbirth or staying at home to care for the elderly, was emphasised. the need to help women who want to start their own businesses was emphasised. the call was for the promotion of technical occupations among young girls on the threshold of professional careers, in order to increase the proportion of women in typically male occupations. the need to give priority to groups of women in particularly difficult situations, such as women with disabilities, older women and women who are dependent on others, was emphasised. however, in my view, among these essential and fundamental issues are also unnecessary provisions on reproductive health, or on giving wide and unrestricted access to abortion. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. in fighting for the right to equal treatment between women and men, we should not make it dependent on choices related to the sexual sphere. this type of practice can significantly reduce support for the report in question.
madam president! the report shows that europe is changing to support better education for women, increased employment, although there are still wide disparities. and this improvement is happening in spheres where women are taking the lead, taking the initiative, taking the initiative. in spheres where they have little influence, stereotypes prevent them from advancing and participating in public life. so the number of women in leadership positions is not increasing, and their participation in politics is increasing very slowly. the key is to combat stereotypes and take action to promote gender equality in public life and politics. the report says we should step up this, but that's not enough. we need to be able to point out these proposals together. we need to encourage the commission and the member states to engage in debate and action to promote women's political participation. where women are more involved in politics, more people think about social issues, about day care, about women's issues, about women's equality in general. in poland, we started a debate about the priority of politics. a group of women took a grassroots initiative to draft a law on parity in politics, where 50% of the voters would be women. we collected over 100,000 signatures for this bill and sent it to the polish parliament. a huge debate has started and i don't know if it will succeed: whether parliament will vote on our proposal. i don't know if it's going to be a big hit, but the debate that's going on has changed a lot of public consciousness. we have the results of the tests that indicate that. i therefore call for such a debate to be launched on the participation of women in politics in the countries of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! it is good that the resolution in question includes paragraph 38 stating that women must have control over their sexual and reproductive rights, in particular by ensuring easy access to contraceptives and safe abortion. this is especially true for citizens of countries with restrictive anti-abortion laws and deceptive pro-life propaganda. in my country - poland - the right wing, subordinated to the clergy, does not allow for proper sex education, restricts contraception and legal abortion. even the term abortion has been almost completely eliminated from the english language and replaced by the term "killing the unborn child". in order to eliminate the legal abortion procedures, of which there are only a few hundred per year, attempts have been made for several years to inscribe the protection of life from conception in the polish constitution. the 100,000 illegal abortions are not bothering the so-called pro-life activists, who are hypocritically pretending they don't exist. the european union must put an end to the disregard for women's reproductive and sexual rights in its member states.
mr president, women represent half of europe’s talent. we must not waste this creative potential. if we succeed in channelling this potential into the economy, we will make a huge leap forward, with regard both to the attitudes still present in european societies and to the union’s new agenda for more growth, jobs and competitiveness. equal opportunities do exist on paper. the union has produced at least 13 directives on gender equality. the principle is anchored in the treaty and in the constitutions and legislative acts of member states, but the real-life data speak a different language. never before were women so well educated, but, when it comes to entrepreneurship, women are still largely under-represented. on the gender pay gap, virtually nothing has moved in recent years. when doing business, women rarely default when it comes to reimbursing their loans, but access to finance is more difficult for women, and this is determined by the banks’ quest for collateral. you need to have more money in order to borrow money, but only 1% of the world’s assets are owned by women. despite higher qualifications, despite higher education, women remain totally under-represented among decision-makers. getting more women into decision-making positions is the key to everything. women can promote their case and market their agenda, but the real power lies in decision-making, and that is why women ought to take part. critical mass is essential to bring about change. one single woman in a decision-making body will soon have to adapt her behaviour, to be accepted by the male majority. as a starter, having a few women on a decision-making board could already make a difference, yet all these strategies will help little if we do not succeed in removing the biggest obstacle for women: reconciling family and working life. remaining obstacles call for a policy response, and that is why we still need policies geared towards gender, both at national and european level.
mr. chairman, please! i'm very happy that men are speaking out today, even though we are in the minority. i would like us to think of gender politics in terms of a huge untapped social potential, and that is why within the next 10 generations, the disparities should be evened out in all areas if we want to think about a rapidly evolving society. three areas of concern: first, the disparity in the area of science. women are better educated, but they don't get promoted. secondly, the participation of women in politics should be much higher, which is why i think parities should be introduced in all member states. third, the area of entrepreneurship. women are better at managing, say, micro-enterprises, but their share of the management of large companies is small. women won't achieve equality until, given the growth trend, 2280. we need to change that. three conclusions: first, the observatory should focus on good practices. secondly, i would like to thank mr špidla very much for allowing the european union's great financial instrument, the european social fund, to invest in a nursery school. third, i would like to state that if i plan to have a child during this term, i will take paternity leave if chairman buzek grants me such leave.
mr. chairman, please! in my opinion, there are two keys to gender equality. one key is equal access to economic resources, and the other key is equal access to decision-making in public life. in my view, the persistence of the gender pay gap is unacceptable. equal work should be equal pay. i would also like to stress that i think it is very important that women participate more in political life and in public life more generally. i am deeply convinced that greater participation, more and more equitable participation of women in public life will lead to budgets, policies that will be created, plans that will be created that will be more in line with the dreams, needs, aspirations and plans of the whole society.
mr. chairman, please! it is usually the case that in times of hardship, more of the burden of providing for the family comes from women. for this they should not only receive public appreciation but also substantial support in the framework of social policy. i think we have a lot to do in that area. gender equality and women's rights are derived from human rights. it seems that the creation of excessive legislation to enforce this fundamental right can be seen as a direct challenge to this principle. finally, the most we can do in terms of gender equality is to have a proper education system, because respect for women is not enough, it cannot be fully defined and documented in the best possible way, if it is not in our culture, customs and upbringing. in poland, there is a saying that a woman keeps three corners of the house, and a man only one. you can say that this situation is discriminating, it's putting women down, or it's over-exploiting women, it's an example of inequality.
i would like to welcome to our meeting the president of the european commission, mr josé manuel barroso, and the commissioners-designate. hello to all the friends and colleagues. welcome to the house, distinguished guests. we are facing one of the most important decisions of this parliament's term. we are the people of europe who have entrusted us with the task of choosing the best european commission. we're finished with the auditions. i received 26 positive letters. for the first time in history, we are electing the european commission as co-legislator. this imposes a particular obligation on us to cooperate with the european commission. we represent two community institutions of the european union. we have therefore concluded a new framework agreement, which is to be ratified today. we'll be voting on this agreement at noon. so, from 12:00 on, the vote. before that, perhaps, there will be a little break, if we finish the discussion earlier. we want the union to be represented by more dynamic institutions, which is why this agreement is very important to us. we've also had some good experiences in the last few months. the hour of face-to-face conversation with the president of the european commission here in the plenary session was a great success. we will have similar contacts with the commissioners, with the vice-presidents of the european commission, and so we will have a question and answer period which will bring us closer to the commission's activities. our new framework agreement also contains many solutions that were not available before. the european commission and the european parliament must also take into account the views of national parliaments, which represent the principle of subsidiarity in the european union. i believe this is the beginning not just of a new decade, but of a new way of doing things for the european union. we all believe that. thirty years after the first direct elections to the european parliament, we are facing another leap forward. this is a new era in the european parliament's functioning as a european institution. i would like to begin our discussion by asking the president, mr josé manuel barroso, to speak.
president of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank the commission, ladies and gentlemen, promotes the general interest of the union and takes the appropriate initiatives to that end. it ensures that the treaties are applied and that the measures adopted by the institutions pursuant to them are implemented. it monitors the application of union law under the supervision of the court of justice of the european union. it executes the budget and manages the programmes. it shall perform coordination, implementation and management functions in accordance with the conditions laid down in the treaties. with the exception of the common foreign and security policy and other cases provided for in the treaties, it shall represent the union's external action. it takes the initiative in the union's annual and multiannual programming to reach interinstitutional agreements. ladies and gentlemen, as you know, this is the text of article 17 (1) of the treaty on european union, the treaty of lisbon. and i read it because it shows the importance of the commission in the realisation of the european project, a commission which, according to the same article, is accountable as a college to your parliament. so today we see european democracy at work. today, your assembly, made up of representatives directly elected by the european citizens, is called upon to decide on the new college of commissioners. in addition to the vote on the president of the commission on 16 september last year, this vote is essential to the democratic legitimacy of the commission and thus of the european project as a whole. the team that stands before you today is ready to face the challenges ahead. it combines experience and new ideas, and reflects the wide range of approaches and sensibilities that make europe such a wonderful land of ideas. this is a team you can vote for with confidence, a team that deserves your support. what's next? what's next? would things go back to normal? no, i refuse to believe - and our fellow citizens would not understand - that after all these years of institutional debate we are essentially continuing as before. yes, we are living in remarkable times. the challenges we face - the economic and financial crisis, climate change and energy security - to name a few - are simply too great for us not to change the way we do things. this is a time for boldness. this is a time to show our citizens that we care, and that the entry into force of the lisbon treaty will make a real difference in our ability to serve their interests. i believe that our economic and social situation demands a radical shift from the status quo, and the new treaty allows this. our task is to use the new mechanics to bring on new dynamics. so let's get away from the intellectual glamour of pessimism and constant denigration of the european union that is doing so much damage to europe's image. let us move the discussion from institutional input to policy impact. what europe needs to succeed is policies focused on results, better governance structures and confidence in our own ability to solve the problems we face. our common currency, the euro, will continue to be a major tool for our development, and those who think it can be put in question must realise we will stick to our course. the european union has the necessary framework to address all the challenges that may arise in this matter. we can start by asking ourselves: does the european union count in the world? and the answer is "yes". but does the european union count as much as it should in the world? the answer is not yet. europe counts when we speak with a strong and united voice, when the european interest is clearly defined and vigorously defended: in trade, for example, and competition policy. it is less successful when we act according to narrow national interests, in an uncoordinated way or in areas where collectively the european union is not able to defend and promote its collective interest. so, in summary, we have to ask ourselves: are we doing everything we can to define and defend the european interest an interest that is more than the sum of its parts? frankly, i believe we have to do more. we need to set our work in an overall, longer-term vision of where we want the european union to be. this will ensure coherence and offer a sense of direction that actors across europe can recognise and support. the political guidelines i presented to this house are the starting point for this vision of europe 2020. they are the fruit of our experience over the last five years. and, not least, they are the fruit of intensive discussions with this house. thanks to your strong support for these guidelines, i regard them as a useful point of departure for us. the broad priorities are clear: making a successful exit from the crisis; leading on climate action and energy efficiency; boosting new sources of growth and social cohesion to renew our social market economy; advancing a people's europe with freedom and security; and opening a new era for global europe. i believe in a europe that is open and generous. a europe that is particularly dedicated to the millennium development goals. i believe in a europe that shows solidarity to others, as we have shown recently in haiti, where we have contributed in an important way with emergency aid, and we will also contribute with significant reconstruction aid. but we can achieve more with better coordination at european level and i will make proposals in this sense, exploring the new opportunities offered by the treaty; also the european external action service will be a very important instrument to make our foreign policy more coherent and effective. i can promise you that, if this college is granted your support, we will set to work straightaway, turning the political guidelines into an ambitious work program which i want to discuss with you. our europe 2020 vision is both a structural and comprehensive reform strategy and an exit and recovery strategy. so we will make sure we embed short-term measures to get europe working again into our longer-term objectives, promoting jobs through sustainable growth. we will spend the next five years turning our vision into reality: making europe a resource-efficient, inclusive, social market economy reflecting what makes us special, the european way of life. this means growth based on knowledge and innovation; improving our productivity by increasing our r&d and innovation performance; better exploiting the potential of icts and creating a digital single market; raising education outcomes; and promoting skills. this means an inclusive, high-employment society: empowering people through high levels of employment, using flexicurity, modernising labour markets and social protection, fighting poverty with a view to building a more inclusive society. this means greener growth: building a competitive and sustainable economy, tackling climate change, accelerating the roll-out of smart grids and genuine eu-scale networks, modernising the eu's industrial base, and turning the european union into a resource efficient economy. to achieve these goals we must recognise that the interdependence of our economies requires better and more coordination. some national politicians, let us face it, are not in favour of a more coordinated approach in economic policy. but, if we want to overcome the crisis, reinforce the social dimension and establish a good basis for a strong economic future for europe in the globalised world, if we want to reinforce our industrial base and launch new common european projects and not just bilateral ones, then stronger economic coordination is the only way forward. other very important challenges need to be tackled during this mandate. we have already mapped out a very ambitious and far-reaching programme in the field of justice and home affairs. this not only includes the fight against terrorism and crime; it also includes addressing the very important priority of a common approach to migration. in this area we show our citizens our commitment to both freedom and security. during this mandate we will also focus on the budget review and new financial perspectives. we believe that we should concentrate on the quality of expenditure, on its european added value and on its effectiveness, so that the financial perspective becomes an instrument for realizing the ambitions of europe: for our strategy for growth and jobs, and also for the goals of economic, social and territorial cohesion. this can only come from strong european institutions and a determination to raise our level of ambition, to deliver change. so it is most welcome that a key change in the treaty is the strengthening of all the european institutions. i intend to use this to reinforce the contribution we can all make to the european project, together. this is no time for our institutions to pull in different directions. but of course the commission will always have a special relationship with parliament, as, under the community method, we are the two institutions with a specific role to identify, articulate and give reality to the european interest. that makes us the two community institutions par excellence, with a particular responsibility for ensuring that the european union is more than the sum of its parts. it was in this spirit that i offered in my political guidelines presented to you a special relationship with parliament. it is in this spirit that we have discussed a new framework agreement, the principles of which are embodied in the resolution before the house today. this framework agreement should drive forward our common efforts to deliver genuinely european responses to the issues faced by europeans today. so, as well as updating the agreement to reflect the lisbon treaty, it must set out new ways in which we will make cooperation a day-to-day reality. it must help us to fashion a new culture of partnership and purpose, to use our common leverage to offer a real advance for the european project. also several of these issues imply cooperation with the council. so i would very much welcome a broader agreement which unites the co-legislators, together with the commission, on a set of principles for interinstitutional cooperation. i said we need to be bold. i said we can't go on as if its business as usual. i have outlined many innovations, and our priorities to tackle the social situation. i am convinced they will strengthen our institutions and help us achieve our goals, in full respect of our values. because let us never forget that our union is founded on values: respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. today, a new chapter in our european adventure opens. let us work together to make it a real success for all our citizens. (applause) i would like to thank you.
it was a presentation to the college of commissioners and a statement on the framework agreement on relations between the european parliament and the european commission. they were presented by president barroso. we're discussing both of those issues. the vote on the framework agreement will be at noon on the dot, then we will adjourn until 1:30 and then we will proceed to the vote on the college of commissioners. that's the agenda for today. i also wanted to welcome the representatives of the european council, the rotating presidency, the spanish government, and the countries present and listening to our conversation. welcome to the club.
now, the first woman to speak in this debate, it's a shame it's so late.
mr. chairman, please! five months ago, i voted for you to be the commissioner, because i thought you were the best candidate on the ballot. i do not regret that vote, but today, as we discuss the college of commissioners submitted to us for approval, i cannot hide my disappointment. after the process of interviewing the candidates for commissioners, i know that there are many of them who are very well prepared, but we also know that there are unfortunately people who have no experience and who have failed miserably in the interviews. i understand that you have limited room for manoeuvre in the selection process. i fully support the right of national governments to nominate their own candidates, but i still think that the composition presented is not optimal. in your speech you asked whether the european union matters in the world. the best answer to this question is the recent decision to cancel the eu-us summit. do you really think that this composition of the college will strengthen the union's position? finally, i would also like to express my disappointment that we did not receive sufficient answers to the questions on energy security during the interview process.
mr. chairman, please! the governments of the member states nominate the commissioners-designate. once approved by the european parliament, they are free from the obligations of their country of origin. they are supposed to ensure the balanced development of europe. it takes competence and trust. the first aspect was called into question during the interviews of the candidates, who often agreed on their answers in terms of indecent generality. catherine ashton has been busy with the details, and it's been a disappointment. the whole team of muscular commissioners is fragile, and that picture cannot be changed by a few well-prepared candidates. we are obliged to vote en bloc on the whole commission, which has not presented a clear strategy for action. can we trust her? the question was asked in the group of european conservatives and reformists: would we put our family's budget and its fate in the hands of this commission? many of us have given and will give the negative answer today.
mr president, i want to refer to the framework agreement and a special partnership between the commission and parliament, which you addressed and we obviously welcome. parliament is fighting for its competence not for the sake of this house’s pride and glory. we want to fill the gap of democratic legitimacy after all the pain we witnessed when the referenda were held. we are entering a new era of community method so please do not defend the competences of the commission as we, parliament, were not part of this community method. i am referring here to the legislative monopoly of the commission. this monopoly existed when the european parliament was not what it is today, so i welcome the half-way solution which takes into account our initiatives in legislative matters, and which you have accepted. this house will be looking very closely at the practice of this half-way solution, taking into account our request to the commission to take legislative action. my second point is about the common external action service. it should draw its credibility from two sources – not only the council but also the european parliament – and so far we are not fully satisfied. i am looking at your vice-president, lady ashton. we deplore the fact that we are absent from the high level group. we think we should be involved in the process which was always requested by this house. we should be involved in the nominations of ambassadors and eusrs. perhaps there is still some room for left for manoeuvre because it is not for our glory but to give this service real credibility in the eyes of europeans. otherwise it will be weaker, whereas both sides want it to be stronger.
mr. chairman, please! the european union is in a completely new situation. the treaty of lisbon makes important changes. what can we say after two months of operation? well, actually, if you think about it, that's a good and important start. it is only now that these statutes and resolutions are to be put into effect. the allocation of competences between the institutions or newly created important high-level posts should be made accordingly and the political principles and rules for cooperation should be established. it is also a question of maintaining the principle of effective equality between member states, but also between member states and the union. it is important not to diminish the importance of the presidency of the individual member states. only a cohesive union that speaks with one voice will have its rightful place in the world. the first experience of the last two months raises various doubts. we must therefore think these problems through and take action to achieve the desired results and a new quality in the functioning of the european union.
president of the commission. − mr president, i will try to start by answering some concrete questions and will then address the more general ones. firstly, on the euro area, some members of this parliament raised issues relating to the euro area and some current problems we are facing in euro-area member states. first of all, let me recall that the euro is one of the major successes in europe’s history. since its creation with 11 participants, the euro area has grown to comprise 16 member states. the euro area has been an area of stability and job creation. of course it was affected by the crisis. non-euro-area countries were also affected by the crisis. i do not need to remind you that, just a few days ago, i received the prime minister of iceland, a country very close to us – and a non-euro-area member – which was indeed facing this crisis. i want to repeat that this crisis was not created in the euro area; it came from outside the euro area. but the truth is that the euro did protect the countries which share the single currency. i believe that the european situation would be much more difficult today if we did not have the euro. we have yet to reap the full benefits of the euro. to do so, we need to reinforce economic coordination in the euro area. it is true that we do not have just a monetary union. we should have a real economic union. the treaty gives new opportunities, which i intend to make use of. olli rehn, the new commissioner for these matters – if we get your support – will develop this line. looking ahead at how to reinforce the euro area is very important, but of course it does not prevent us from looking at the present. the period the euro area is going through is a difficult one. there is no point in denying it. other countries outside the euro area are also facing very difficult times. let us also recognise that. however, i must say that the situation in the financial markets is sometimes reported in a way that amplifies the problems, and does not always give an objective assessment of the situation. such analyses usually come from non-euro-area countries. but the euro area has the capacity to deal with the difficulties currently affecting it. we have our system of fiscal rules, the stability and growth pact, which must be properly implemented. in the case of greece, we have the capacity to assess and monitor its fiscal adjustment programme. we have the possibility of recommending bold structural reforms in greece which will also be closely monitored by the commission. on 3 february the commission adopted a package on greece which will go to the council early next week. naturally the solution requires, above all, action from the greek side. support for the determination of the greek authorities will increase confidence in the successful achievement of the ambitious programme they have adopted. member states, particularly those in the euro area, should always have in mind that the economic policies of each of them have an impact on the economies of others. i welcome clear indications that all member states are aware of the challenge and will act accordingly. there was a concrete question asked about consumer policy, i think by mrs gebhardt. there is a person with clear responsibility for consumer policy in the commission, namely commissioner dalli. he will be in charge of this policy, propose initiatives in this area and discuss them with you in the imco committee and in plenary. specific civil-law dimensions will be under the responsibility of the commissioner for justice, vice-president reding. this is normal in most executives around europe, where those specific issues are dealt with by the minister of justice. of course all decisions on new initiatives will have to be approved by the college. i am extremely committed to collegiality. in fact many of you have urged the commission to keep a strong accent on collegiality. under the treaties, the president of the commission is the guarantor of collegiality. in today’s policies this is a normal tendency. more and more issues are transversal or horizontal by nature. they need a common purpose and they require the integration of different sectoral policies. what happens in the commission is more or less the same as what is happening in national governance and in global governance. we see now that, very often, heads of state and government need to address, in a coordinated and coherent way, matters that were previously dealt with separately by those responsible in the different governments. so this is exactly what we intend to do. i want to underline this point with special pride because we are now building this new commission on the experience of the previous one. the previous one was the first commission of this enlarged europe – the first time we had a commission with 27 members from 27 different countries. the fact that that commission worked in a truly collegiate spirit with a sense of purpose is indeed a demonstration that the enlarged european union can work with 27 or more members. i think this is also critically important for the future. there were some concrete questions about cohesion policy and some community policies like fisheries and agriculture – for example, the question by mr capoulas santos. the cohesion policy has been enshrined in the treaty of lisbon. by its nature it is a european policy. we need to see how we can continue the process of reform so that we can continue to improve the policy’s value for money, and ensure that cohesion policy and regional policy are translated into a real increase in the competitiveness of all the regions of europe. we need to be sure that the policy can achieve that so that we can have a strong case in the next financing debate. let me assure you of my full commitment – and, i think i can say, the full commitment of the new commission – to the principles of social, economic and territorial cohesion that are also enshrined in the lisbon treaty. of course we will do everything we can to promote the common policies of europe. there were some concrete questions about social impact assessment – mr cercas’s question. i want to make clear what i have said publicly before. we are committed to introducing this social impact assessment in our work through the impact assessment board. we believe we have made a lot of progress on impact assessment. we are always ready to improve that work and we believe the social dimension should be properly addressed in our work. some members of this parliament put questions to me regarding energy security. i want to underline that we are going to include energy security in our proposal for the european union 2020 strategy. one of the innovations of the european union 2020 strategy is precisely to bring together some policies that were previously treated separately. i believe that promoting energy security and energy efficiency should be an important part of our agenda for competitiveness and for greener, sustainable and resource-efficient growth in europe. this underlines how important we believe this agenda is. some of you asked me about smes and the value of the internal market – mr hökmark and others. it is very important to relaunch the internal market now. it is important to make clear that the internal market is not just about a market, even if markets are important. some people believe that we defend markets because we are market fundamentalists. nothing could be further from the truth. we believe the internal market is, above all, the basis for the european project. without an internal market we will not have a strong european union. if you allow the internal market to be fragmented, we will see the ugly face of economic nationalism again in europe. we have to speak courageously and say that the internal market exists to defend the weakest – the consumers, to defend small and medium-sized companies against monopolies, and of course to defend the european project as a whole. that is why i asked mr monti to produce a report so that we can bring some new ideas and also create a larger consensus to relaunch and deepen the internal market as one of the great past and future achievements of our european project. j'aimerais maintenant évoquer quelques questions plus générales que certains d'entre vous ont abordées. joseph daul, martin schulz , alain lamassoure – qui a fait une intervention où il a bien insisté sur la question de l'audace –, juan fernando lópez aguilar, jaime mayor oneja et beaucoup d'autres ont soulevé la question de l'ambition. c'est, à mon avis, un point extrêmement important et nous devons avoir effectivement un débat honnête entre nous sur ce point. certains d'entre vous, notamment martin schulz, m'ont interrogé encore une fois sur la question du marché et du social. je tiens à vous le répéter: ce n'est pas la commission que vous devez convaincre du besoin d'avoir une vocation sociale. c'est avec nous que vous devez essayer de convaincre quelques capitales, parce que la vérité est très claire: certaines capitales pensent que l'europe, c'est le marché, et que, d'après le principe de subsidiarité, le social, c'est eux. je ne suis pas d'accord. je trouve que pour obtenir également une adhésion émotionnelle à l'europe, il nous faut une dimension sociale. il faut une dimension sociale qui combine effectivement ce qu'on peut faire au niveau communautaire avec ce que l'on peut faire au niveau national. personne ne veut créer de système de sécurité sociale européen, de système de santé centralisé en europe. ce n'est pas ce que nous proposons. d'ailleurs, il ne faut pas voir ça en termes de concurrence entre le niveau national et le niveau européen. mais si, en complément de ce que nous faisons sur le plan du marché intérieur, de la concurrence, de la politique des aides d'état, d'autres politiques comme la politique commerciale extérieure, il n'y a pas une dimension sociale de l'europe, nous aurons un problème de légitimité du projet européen. j'insiste donc. ce n'est pas nous qu'il faut convaincre du besoin d'une dimension sociale. travaillez avec nous pour renforcer la dimension sociale de l'europe, l'économie sociale de marché, qui est d'ailleurs inscrite comme objectif dans le traité de lisbonne. j'y tiens beaucoup et on doit lutter pour elle ensemble. cela ne fait aucun doute. (applaudissements) en ce qui concerne la question de la gouvernance – un problème qui est cher à m. verhofstadt et aussi à moi-même –, encore une fois, aidez-nous, appuyez-nous. je suis pour une gouvernance renforcée de l'europe et l'europe a besoin de cette gouvernance renforcée. mon discours – vous direz un discours, c'est un discours, mais c'est quand même un discours que je fais au nom du nouveau collège et qui traduit une ambition, une ligne politique – est clair. nous ne sommes pas en train de vivre des moments comme les autres. je l'ai dit: à l'intérieur de l'europe comme à l'extérieur, on a besoin de plus de détermination sur le plan européen. je suis absolument convaincu, intellectuellement, politiquement, que si l'europe n'agit plus de façon concertée, nous risquons de ne plus avoir qu'une place insignifiante au niveau international. je l'ai dit dans mes lignes directrices, devant les chefs d'état et de gouvernement, et je vais le répéter au conseil européen informel, après-demain, car j'en suis convaincu. je pense que les développements récents n'ont fait que souligner cette situation avec plus d'acuité. la crise financière internationale a montré à quel point nos économies sont interdépendantes. les problèmes que connaît maintenant la zone euro montrent aussi combien nos économies sont interdépendantes. nous devons donc jouer un rôle accru en termes de coordination et de gouvernance européenne. il ne faut pas nécessairement donner à bruxelles des compétences nationales: c'est un débat du xxe siècle qui, je crois, est dépassé. c'est une erreur de poser ce débat en termes de "c'est pour bruxelles, c'est pour la commission, c'est contre les états membres...", car ce débat est ridicule. il est évident qu'aujourd'hui, si nous voulons compter dans le monde, nos états membres seuls n'ont pas l'influence nécessaire pour discuter d'égal à égal avec les états-unis, la russie ou la chine. nous avons besoin de cette dimension, non pas pour renforcer bruxelles, mais pour renforcer l'europe et surtout pour répondre aux intérêts concrets de chacun et de chacune de nos concitoyennes et concitoyens. c'est là qu'il faut travailler ensemble, et là aussi, je vous dis: appuyez-nous. nous avons besoin de votre soutien, non pas dans une logique de guerre entre les institutions – plus que jamais, nous avons besoin du partenariat institutionnel –, mais pour défendre l'intérêt de l'europe dans le monde. enfin, en termes de relations extérieures, là aussi, soyons absolument clairs. dans quel domaine l'europe compte-t-elle dans le monde? l'europe compte dans le monde là où elle a, effectivement, une position coordonnée. elle est respectée sur le plan commercial, cela je peux vous le garantir. nos lois de concurrence sont respectées par tous les grands conglomérats internationaux. nous avons une politique commune. nous avons des institutions. nous avons la base pour agir. mais attention! nous sommes à un moment, notamment en termes de sécurité internationale, où l'europe n'a pas aujourd'hui les instruments géopolitiques et de défense que d'autres ont. je vois très bien que, quand je parle avec quelques-uns de nos partenaires globaux, ils pensent surtout en termes de sécurité. ils pensent en termes d'équilibre stratégique. et là, il faut le dire clairement, l'europe ne peut pas être naïve. le problème de copenhague n'était pas un manque d'ambition de l'europe, comme certains le disent. au contraire, nous étions de loin les plus ambitieux. pour moi, ce que copenhague a montré, c'est que nous devions articuler un intérêt européen dans les différents domaines et le défendre de façon cohérente et stratégique, avec tous nos partenaires. il ne faut donc pas simplement mener une politique généreuse, qui est importante, mais il faut que nous ayons aussi la force de défendre notre générosité et la conviction de défendre nos intérêts. c'est cela que j'ai l'intention de faire, et j'espère aussi votre soutien en ce sens. finalement, quelques-uns – mm. lehne et swoboda, mme roth-behrendt, mme wallis et m. rangel, entre autres – ont beaucoup parlé de la question interinstitutionnelle, notamment de l'accord-cadre. je tiens à vous dire que ce que j'ai fait dans les négociations avec vous, c'est précisément traduire l'esprit et la lettre du traité de lisbonne. certains n'ont pas encore compris que le parlement européen a aujourd'hui des compétences qu'il n'avait pas avant le traité de lisbonne. je crois à la dimension européenne de parlementaire, et si je parle de dimension – mon anglais n'est pas aussi bon que le vôtre, madame wallis –, ce n'est pas pour dire quelque chose de vague. pour moi, dimension, cela veut dire profondeur, cela veut dire étendue. c'est tout de même quelque chose de très ambitieux. je veux travailler avec le parlement dans cet esprit. pas contre une autre institution, car je crois – et je dois le dire ici – que nous avons besoin d'un conseil et d'un conseil européen très forts. je salue les innovations du traité de lisbonne, notamment l'existence d'une présidence stable du conseil européen, parce que cela donne continuité et cohérence sur la durée. je salue vivement la création de la fonction de haut représentant, qui est en même temps vice-président de la commission européenne. ce n'est pas pour rendre les choses plus difficiles, au contraire! au lieu d'avoir deux centres pour les relations extérieures, l'un du côté du conseil, l'autre du côté de la commission, nous avons maintenant une personnalité – dans ce cas lady ashton – qui va défendre l'intérêt européen avec la légitimité intergouvernementale, qui reste très importante en matière extérieure, mais aussi avec la légitimité communautaire. je dis donc cela avec une très grande conviction. je crois que ce serait une erreur de lancer maintenant un débat ou une confrontation institutionnelle. nous avons besoin des différentes institutions. certains ont dû poser l'éternelle question de m. kissinger sur le numéro de téléphone. je l'ai déjà dit une fois: m. kissinger était le secrétaire d'état. je crois que désormais, l'interlocuteur du secrétaire d'état américain, c'est catherine ashton. elle a la responsabilité et la capacité de le faire. mais, effectivement, au niveau des chefs d'état et de gouvernement, hormis les rapports avec nos états membres, nous avons, dans le traité de lisbonne, le président du conseil qui représente l'europe pour des questions de politique extérieure et de sécurité commune, et la commission qui, d'après l'article 17, représente l'europe pour le reste des relations extérieures. c'est notre système. d'aucuns voudraient un système complètement unifié. comme certains l'ont dit, les américains n'ont parfois pas un système complètement unifié non plus. parfois nous négocions avec l'administration américaine et nous découvrons par la suite que le congrès ne suit pas exactement les positions de l'administration américaine. ici, il faut également comprendre que nous sommes vingt-sept états membres. nous avons un système qui, par rapport au système intérieur, est un progrès. au lieu d'avoir une présidence qui change tous les six mois, nous avons une présidence stable du conseil. nous avons maintenant la haute représentante et vice-présidente de la commission. c'est un progrès, certes, mais la dynamique est plus importante que la mécanique. et c'est en ce sens que nous devons donner une nouvelle dimension à notre action. j'en termine en adressant un appel à ce parlement. avec le pouvoir vient la responsabilité. et là, je vais être très franc avec vous, mesdames et messieurs les députés. le parlement européen a gagné beaucoup en pouvoirs avec cette révision. j'espère que ces pouvoirs seront utilisés, non seulement pour les questions sympathiques, pour les feel good policies, mais aussi pour la responsabilité de gouverner l'europe avec les autres institutions. c'est un grand test sur la responsabilité de toutes les institutions – du parlement européen, de la commission et du conseil européen. certains d'entre vous m'ont demandé – sincèrement, je le crois – de faire preuve de plus d'audace. je peux vous dire que je suis prêt à mener ce combat. mais la commission seule ne pourra pas le mener à bien. soyons clairs sur ce point. ce serait une illusion, et la commission ne peut pas établir son influence, son pouvoir, sa direction contre nos états, qui sont des états démocratiques. nous devons le faire ensemble, avec une assemblée parlementaire – dans ce cas un parlement européen – qui assume véritablement sa responsabilité, qui n'est pas simplement, comme certains le veulent, de la protestation. et j'ai remarqué que certains parlent plus fort parce qu'ils sont plus faibles! ce dont nous avons besoin, c'est d'une convergence de toutes les forces politiques responsables européennes. certaines forces politiques ont dit qu'elles voteraient contre nous. je peux vous dire, pour les extrêmes, que je serais préoccupé si elles votaient pour nous. je n'ai pas besoin de cet appui. la commission ne veut pas de leur appui. mais la commission veut et demande l'appui de toutes les forces européennes. ça, je vous le demande. je le demande avec modestie, mais aussi avec la conviction que nous avons besoin de votre soutien et que vous pouvez nous aider à dépasser le décalage qui existe aujourd'hui. quel est le véritable problème? soyons clairs sur ce sujet aussi. il y a aujourd'hui, en europe – et ce sera mon point final, monsieur le président –, quand nous en parlons à nos concitoyens, un décalage fondamental entre les ambitions déclarées et les résultats que nous arrivons à obtenir. certains veulent maintenant utiliser ce décalage pour faire baisser les ambitions. d'autres – et nous sommes de ce côté – veulent faire monter les résultats pour que ces résultats soient à la mesure des ambitions. je compte sur ce parlement pour accomplir notre ambition, une ambition pour une europe plus forte, dans un monde de plus en plus exigeant. je vous demande d'apporter votre soutien à la nouvelle commission pour que, avec ambition, nous puissions concrétiser le rêve européen. (applaudissements)
i thank you, mr president, for the detailed answers to the questions and comments that have come from the chamber, and for the very general treatment of our relations with each other - the european commission and the european parliament. we are aware of the responsibility which rests with the european parliament. our agreement is new, we're going further in this partnership than it's ever been. our shared responsibility as two community institutions the european parliament and the european commission is particularly important. thank you for also presenting the european commission's vision and direction of action. i would like to thank mr lópez garrido, representing the spanish presidency, and the entire spanish delegation for being here during our discussions and debates. i have received five draft resolutions. lodged in accordance with rule 106 (4). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 9 february 2010. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. mr president, the european commission, chaired by josé manuel barroso, has today received more support than in 2004. however, in the debate before the vote, a number of objections were raised, both to its composition and to the unclear division of competences within the new college. for example, consumer protection is a portfolio of as many as six different commissioners. it is difficult to see how this division of powers will affect the effectiveness of the work of individual commissioners in practice. elected today, 9 february 2010, the european commission will have to get down to business, because since last october, when its new composition was supposed to be elected, the old commission has basically been in existence, without taking any new initiatives. the new commission will be tested on its compliance with the framework agreement on relations with parliament, in particular the principle of equal treatment between parliament and the council. i would also like to point out that the 2003 interinstitutional agreement on better law-making will be revised during the current commission's term of office. as rapporteur for the committee on legal affairs, i am working on this subject and i hope that constructive cooperation with the new commission will bring concrete results in this area.
in writing. congratulating president barroso and the entire college of commissioners, i hope that we will now have a more independent and dynamic commission. one that will stand guard over the community's interest first and foremost and that will undertake the bold reforms of eu policies that we must undertake after years of reforming our institutions. in the commission's relations with parliament, we are witnessing a new opening, which is not only the result of the new powers of the ep, but also, as we heard in the autumn, of president barroso's desire to establish a kind of partnership with parliament. the fact is that the individual provisions of the preliminary framework agreement on cooperation between the two institutions considerably strengthen parliament's insight into the decision-making process, thus making it more democratic. but the devil is in the details, and we will be watching these negotiations to the end to make sure that promises such as involving the ep in the process of building eu diplomacy are fulfilled.
the next item is the vote. (results and other voting details: see minutes)
president of the commission. − mr president, a few months ago in my political guidelines and here in plenary, i proposed taking this special partnership between parliament and the commission to a new level. i proposed further enforcing and developing our relations in a positive way to reflect the new treaty and to reflect our shared sense of purpose to shape europe together. in the last few weeks i had in-depth discussions with the team of negotiators led by mr lehne whom you appointed, for the revision of the framework agreement. let me take this opportunity to thank all of them for very intensive discussions, but also for their constructive approach. i am deeply satisfied that we have now found a common understanding on the principles that will govern our relationship in the coming years. they should reinforce our cooperation in full respect of the institutional balance set up by the treaties. as president of the european commission, i will subscribe to the principles laid down in the resolution you have just adopted. they will guide me in developing the position of the new college on the revision of the full framework agreement. with the adoption of this resolution by such an impressive majority of this house, i am confident that we have an excellent base for reinforcing our relationship. for those issues that concern not only our two institutions but also the council, i sincerely hope the council will join us in this common effort to improve the work of all the institutions for the benefit of europe. if you approve the new college later today, i will ask vice-president-designate šefčovič to lead negotiations on the commission side to revise the framework agreement. i wish to assure you that he is as committed as i am – as, i am sure, are all the new college – to effective and swift negotiations.
thank you very much, president barroso, for your very positive approach to our negotiations. on behalf of us all, i would like to thank our negotiating group, chaired by mr lehne, and all colleagues who were so committed to the negotiations. (applause)we do not as yet have a legislative initiative based on the treaty of lisbon, but we have been promised an answer on our expectations from the commission. not only do we have question hour with the president of the european commission, but also question time with the commissioners, an invitation from the president of the european commission to the president of the european parliament and to the college of commissioners, and our common cooperation with national parliaments, which is very important. we are thinking about the subsidiarity rule; we need an impact assessment to improve it as far as possible, and we hope it will be much stronger from this point of view than was originally the case in our agreement, but there is still much hope for all of us that we can do everything that is necessary for our citizens in the future. (the sitting was suspended at 12.10 and resumed at 13.30.)
before the vote, we shall now turn to the speeches by the group leaders on the election of the new commission.
thank you, lord. it was just supposed to be a personal statement.
i would like to warmly congratulate the newly elected college of commissioners and president barroso: congratulations to all of you. there is a huge amount of work ahead of us, and the expectations of our citizens are high; it is a time for action and delivery. i will immediately inform the rotating presidency of the council and the president of the european council of the result of our votes and the appointment of the european commission until 31 october 2014. thank you very much, and congratulations once again. (applause)
acting president of the council. - mr president, i would like to congratulate us very briefly as the council of the european union and to congratulate mr barroso and the commission as a whole on the vote of approval he has received, the support he has obtained, the confidence he has had in this house, the european parliament. in the months and years to come, these two institutions - the commission and the european parliament - will play a decisive role in meeting the challenges facing the european union: the fight against climate change, security, economic globalisation, avoiding a crisis like the one we are still suffering, the launch of the new initiatives and institutions of the lisbon treaty (the citizens' initiative, the solidarity clause and, of course, the european external action service). the commission and the european parliament will have a key role to play in all this and we, as the council, want the commission to work hard. he certainly has many powers, not unlimited, as has been said here, but he certainly does have powers to be able to do so. we want the commission to work quickly and efficiently, because the european citizens want it to work that way and they want us all to really get to work after this period of institutional uncertainty that europe has been through, to make up for lost time and to set in motion immediately this new political stage, this new situation in europe, the europe of the 21st century, definitely. i would therefore like to tell you, mr barroso, that you have made a pro-european speech and that you will have the full cooperation of the council - just as the european parliament will have the full cooperation of the council - to make more of europe and to bring the citizens, represented in this parliament, closer to europe, so that the citizens are, finally, at the heart of europe.
i would like to thank mr diego lópez garrido, secretary of state for european affairs in the spanish government. thank you, sir. president barroso, please speak.
president of the commission. − mr president, very briefly i wish to express on my own behalf and on behalf of all the members of the commission my sincerest gratitude for the confidence that has just been placed in us. we are proud and humbled by the vote. we see there is strong support across the political spectrum; this is an important moment for europe, a real mandate for boldness. i also want to thank the president of the council for his warm words. i believe we now have the conditions to go to work. but let me just make a comment. during this vote i have heard here some remarks and i want to state very clearly that those who compare totalitarian soviet union with the european union do not know what it was to live under dictatorship and they do not know what democracy is. (applause)in the european union we have a democratic european parliament, and this is democracy. in the european union we have a european commission elected by you as the elected representatives of the citizens of europe, and this is democracy. we believe that, now, with the democratic legitimacy which was given to us by you, by the designation of the democratic governments of all our 27 member states, we are proud and confident in working with full determination for the good of democracy in europe, a europe which is in fact a beacon of freedom in the world.
voting time is closed, and it is a time for congratulations.
mr. chairman, please! a few months ago, i voted with full confidence for the candidacy of president barroso as president of the european commission. he didn't really have a choice. verhofstadt (liberal alternative), mr juncker (federal alternative) that was not acceptable. today, as a man who supported mr barroso, i am sad to say that the commission he has represented has many, many personal flaws. i cannot support, nor can my colleagues support, a commission with a commissioner who is really just learning his trade. if she had spoken like that in a student interview, in an international relations exam, she would probably have been kicked out of the room with her index. in poland, she wouldn't have passed any exams. i cannot support a commission in which the danish commissioner wants to close down mines in my country too. i abstained from voting on that. i believe that this commission has a lot of question marks ahead of it, and we will be looking at its hands.
in writing. − the new framework agreement between the european parliament and the commission contains several important elements. first, the principle of equal treatment between parliament and the council, which strengthens the democratic legitimacy of the european union. secondly, it gives parliament additional powers to scrutinise the commission's legislative initiatives, giving parliament greater influence over the law that is being made. the agreement includes a provision for the mandatory publication of the correlation table (as i mentioned in my report on the internal market scoreboard) and binding deadlines for the implementation of directives, which should not exceed two years. this will give a chance to complete the project of creating a common market faster. the agreement also strengthens the community approach and improves the functioning of the two institutions. it also obliges them to operate in a way that ensures that the european union is a genuine community.
in writing. - i abstained from the vote on the composition of the european commission because, in addition to the good candidates, there were many weak or very weak ones. i cannot accept that people who are not qualified for the post of european diplomat, commissioner for economic and monetary affairs or commissioner for employment and social policy should be proposed. let's remember that we are still in a crisis and we are still looking for ways out of this crisis. europe cannot afford commissioners who are still learning their lessons. i am surprised at the attitude of the president of the european commission, who after five years in office, with such a great deal of experience in running the commission, has proposed such weak candidates. i should have voted against the proposed composition of the commission, but there were some very good candidates, alongside the weak ones, including the polish candidate janusz lewandowski. despite my abstention, i wish the commission the very success which is so important to all europeans.
in writing. - my vote in favour of the european commission is an expression of the confidence and hope i have in the newly elected cabinet of josé manuel durão barroso. i believe that despite the many controversies and the likely inexperience of some of the commissioners, the european commission should be able to deal with the problems that arise. only by being active and putting them into practice will commissioners be able to prove their worth. i hope that the newly formed cabinet, in close cooperation with the council of the european union and the european parliament, and with its effective control, will demonstrate the validity of my choice.
in writing. - the polish delegation in the s&d group voted in favour of a vote of confidence in the new european commission, but we are aware of the weaknesses of the newly-created commission and of reservations about the competences of some commissioners. we have waited a long time for the new european commission. but it must be admitted that the vote of confidence was overwhelmingly in favour. it's a strong mandate for the future. on the other hand, few meps voted for the new commission without any reservations. the problem is that, with 27 commissioners, their powers often overlap, making them less clear. many meps also point to the problem of excessive control of individual commissioners by president barroso. we welcome the fact that the new commission will assess the social and economic impact of the financial crisis. however, i am very disappointed that president barroso's speech lacked concrete words on the reform of the cap and cohesion policy. these will certainly be among the most important areas of substance in the incoming term of office of the european commission.
in writing. − we have a new commission, which has taken up its mandate at a difficult time, but which is made up of professionals who have the responsibilities of all 27 member states. we have the treaty of lisbon which changes the configuration of power and requires flexibility on the part of the commission. the european union is therefore in a new and sensitive context, but one which requires performance, stability and dynamism in proposing and implementing coherent policies. we are facing a new financial perspective, and this implies a responsible response from the commission, through reform and new adjustments in all areas, starting with the economic one. all member states are feeling the impact of the financial crisis. the alarm sounded by greece is being heard loud and clear, from states with robust economic systems to those struggling for every step in reducing their budget deficits. a stable and coordinated economic policy at the level of the 27 countries is the chance to avoid a major imbalance at eu level and, in the second stage, to produce beneficial effects. the ec's actions are designed to reflect responses to crisis-related problems and to build, in order to restore stability in the member states, in other words to close the deficit, prevent discrepancies and, at the same time, consolidate.
the situation in some euro area countries calls for serious reflection. the economic crisis is only partly justified. many of the reasons lie elsewhere. first, the large variation in the level of economic development in the individual euro area countries has not been taken into account. secondly, the rigorousness of the stabilisation and growth pact was not respected. budgetary discipline was not adequately maintained, leading to a large increase in the government deficit. third, there was a lack of proper supervision of banks and other financial institutions - and not just in these countries. what can we do about it? the corrective programme drawn up by each country must receive, in accordance with the principle of solidarity, the support of the european union, which entitles the european commission and the european central bank to supervise its implementation. it is also unacceptable that the poorest should bear the brunt of the crisis, as was the case with the greek farmers' protests.
in writing. commissioner, poland is preparing to join the eurozone, so we are closely following the problems of the euro area countries. unfortunately, more and more countries are falling into trouble and the european currency is now facing its biggest challenge since its inception. ladies and gentlemen, greece cannot do this alone. i agree with the previous speakers that there is a need for stronger coordination of the economic policies of the member states. the global economic crisis has destabilised many economies and global stock markets, in the face of a fragile but resilient recovery, fear ineffective action by member state governments to prevent the collapse of euro currency markets. the only real way out of this situation and to prevent the collapse of the currency market is therefore both immediate aid to greece and long-term, planned actions to stabilise the euro.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. with regard to the comments made by the honourable member, i would like to emphasize that there is really no hard evidence or concrete facts for the existence of cia detention centres and prisons in certain european countries, at least in poland. once again, in the last few years, we have been talking in the european parliament about guantanamo. i would like to point out that we're talking about this during the presidency of mr. barack obama, and so it seems that this problem is not solely and exclusively attributed to the terrible and bad administration of george bush jr. it's a more complicated matter, it seems. i am saying this because you, representing the council and the spanish presidency, said that the americans had not yet gotten over everything. finally, i would just like to say that it is very good that the european union is speaking out on issues of civil liberties. but let us also remember the victims who are the victims of terrorism.
madam president! i refer to the statement made by my honourable friend, the green group.
madam president, i thank the honourable member for this remark, but i would like to inform her that i am a representative of poland, not lithuania.
madam president! i'd like to start with what my predecessor here said. you said so categorically that illegal prisons existed in europe, including in poland and romania. as a pole, i want to state clearly that there is no hard evidence that there were such prisons in poland. that's the first note. now, note two: i don't think there's a debate in this room between us about whether guantánamo should be closed. but it's obvious to the naked eye that this guantánamo liquidation is going to be a very complicated process, that there are no willing people here. so the question is, what can be done? well, my question is this: has there been a change in the techniques of detaining and interrogating prisoners? there were many methods of submersion, many ways of keeping them awake for many nights. are we certain that these technologies of an inhuman nature no longer exist there?
mr. chairman, please! there are many cases of illegal trafficking of endangered animals in the member states of the european union. at customs, they find bottle-swaddled birds or turtles wedged between the body and the upholstery of a car. according to a report by the polish customs service, a record number of 200 889 specimens of protected live animals or products were detained at the border in 2008. in india, the failure to combat trafficking has led to a situation where the dramatic increase in poaching has once again threatened populations such as the bengal tiger. the european union with its common external borders should take particular care not to become a market where protected animal or plant species are smuggled or exported with impunity. the european commission should put particular emphasis on an educational campaign and proper communication with citizens. the aim of this policy should be to raise awareness among european tourists. every year, customs officers find items made from endangered plants and animals in the suitcases of europeans returning from foreign trips. the current debate on the bluefin tuna stock is well founded. the statistics speak for themselves. over the past 50 years, the population of this species has declined by as much as 75 percent. tuna stocks in the mediterranean are also under serious threat. the inclusion of bluefin tuna in cites appendix 1 appears to be fully justified and the only way to prevent its extinction.
member of the commission. − mr president, the proposal we are debating today is a tangible sign of the commitment of all eu institutions to promote integration of extremely marginalised and deprived communities into mainstream society. the proposal meets the request of parliament and of the council and confirms that the structural funds have a role to play, not only by contributing financially but also by promoting an integrated approach to tackling social and economic conditions of marginalised communities. the proposal specifically targets the roma population, which in europe accounts for 10 million people. however, in accordance with the common basic principles on roma inclusion, the proposal does not exclude other marginalised groups sharing similar social economic circumstances. the current compromise proposal extends housing interventions for marginalised communities to all 27 member states and not only to the eu-12 as the commission initially proposed. the existing article 7 applies only to housing interventions in urban areas, while the amendment proposes that housing interventions also be allowed in rural areas. this extension is justified since the majority of the roma population in the eu-12 is settled in rural and not in urban areas. under the proposed amendment, both the renovation of existing housing and the construction of new houses are eligible. in fact renovation of houses of extremely poor quality might result in a waste of public resources. during the discussion of the proposal, the committee on regional development asked for a specific reference to desegregation measures. recital 6 of the proposal now includes such desegregation measures as examples of actions which should go along with housing interventions. indeed, segregated settlements imply insecurity, no easy access to education or employment as well as exposure to violent attacks and criminality. the creation of new marginalised areas, although with decent and erdf-supported houses, is definitively not our objective. we know that many member states have put in place integration policies of the roma communities with particular focus on housing. the implementation of these policies is not an easy task. the structural funds can participate in this effort supporting not only housing but more importantly actions improving the productive capacities of these communities, such as support for smes, women, entrepreneurship initiatives etc. in this respect i would like to stress that the main objective of the cohesion policy is to make the regional economies converge by fostering the productive capacities. as you are certainly aware, the new regulation will be accompanied by a declaration from the commission – and indeed most member states – stating that the eligibility of housing interventions in favour of marginalised communities throughout the european union under the erdf is of an exceptional nature. this exception should in no way be regarded as a general opening of cohesion policy to financing housing interventions. i would like now to refer to the proposal by the committee on regional development to insert a specific recital on comitology into the text. in this context i would like to remind you that a horizontal solution of transitional provisions relating to comitology has in principle been found between the three institutions. the aim of the declaration of the european parliament, the council and the commission concerning the implementation of article 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union is to avoid raising institutional discussions on each individual file during the interim period pending the entry into force of a new comitology framework regulation. the commission therefore regrets the introduction of the recital, but will not block – for this reason – the agreement in first reading between the co-legislators. i am looking forward to the debate.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to stress that the amendment to the regulation under discussion today has a double meaning. on the one hand, it directly addresses the problems of marginalized communities, even if the term is not well defined. on the other hand, it introduces a very important element for the economy, namely the possibility of financing housing construction from the european regional development fund, which caused serious controversy even in the previous term of office of the european parliament. this is undoubtedly a rather surprising effect of the crisis, which has led to the argument put forward by members of parliament a few years ago being rejected and housing expenditure being accepted only for new member states, and today, in the light of new economic and financial conditions, the use of funds for housing is accepted in a very specific context. i think that the experience we are having now, which is a very positive element, should be continued and housing spending should be included in future cohesion policy, just as it is today.
mr. chairman, please! the european commission's proposal for a regulation on the european regional development fund assumes that housing initiatives can only be implemented in cities and in the form of renovation of existing residential buildings. these provisions did not cover rural areas, which means that a large proportion of marginalised social groups in central and eastern european countries will not benefit from the proposed solutions. this is because in the new member states the poorest groups excluded by low material status outside the mainstream of social life are predominantly rural. in my view, the amendments would be a welcome addition to the regulation, allowing for the protection of communities outside the city, which would significantly support the efforts of the european agricultural fund for rural development. this type of change will open up the possibility of improving the material status of the poorest communities, which, due to their place of residence, have fewer life chances. this is because the difference between rural and urban living standards in the new member states is much greater than in western europe. unfortunately, material status is still a visible barrier to access to education, employment and participation in cultural life in this part of europe. providing better housing conditions to the most excluded groups will open up opportunities for them to improve their social status and encourage their own development. local authorities and ngos should be involved in this anti-exclusion effort.
mr. chairman, please! in the context of today's debate, i would like to draw attention to the controversial proposal to amend article 47 of the commission's 2006 regulation. this article states that areas covered by housing operations must meet at least three of the criteria listed in its content. the new provision proposes to qualify on the basis of only one of the criteria, which in practice means that non-eligible entities will be able to apply for these measures by adjusting their situation to the legal requirements. i would like to note that the criterion of a low economic activity rate is very easy to achieve in new settlements built in rural areas. then housing assistance will go to developers and wealthy residents of new housing developments instead of to those most in need.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. first of all, i'd like to congratulate you on your election to this office. i believe that we will work together fruitfully and effectively to further enlarge the european union. i trust you will complete the process of negotiations between the european union and croatia later this year. i believe that you will also start soon, i hope also this year, the process of negotiations with macedonia. in this speech, i would like to emphasise the special role of croatia as a future member of the european union, particularly in the context of defending our common values and the security of our continent. we appreciate the fact that croatian troops are present in kosovo and afghanistan as part of nato. around 300 croatian soldiers, diplomats, police officers are also involved in isaf operations in three different regions of afghanistan. our new ally is valiantly supporting our fight against terrorism in various north atlantic treaty missions. i am sure that croatia's membership of the european community will contribute to the further stability of this part of europe which only a few years ago was experiencing brutal conflict and ethnic cleansing. if croatia completes all its reforms, it could close negotiations with the european union as early as this year. it's a good cause, and i urge everyone to support this effort. it is worth noting that zagreb has carried out a number of reforms, especially in the field of justice and public administration, as well as in the fight against corruption and organised crime. croatia's accession to the european union is part of our strategy to build a continent of democracy and prosperity. the example of this balkan country confirms that the process of enlargement of the european union is a strong incentive for political and economic reform in the aspiring member states. let's remember this when we look at our eastern neighbor, ukraine.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. congratulations to you, commissioner. i hope you're as good as you were as a candidate for commissioner. your auditions were really great. i would like to assure mr lambsdorff that mr geoffrey van orden loves europe very much, but he does not want the euro-bureaucracy to overshadow the citizens of europe. we are talking today about enlargement, and it is good that we are talking about it, because, let us not hide it, the european union is in a kind of institutional crisis, and so the way forward is enlargement of the european union, it can give us some energy, give us some animus and it is worth going in that direction. europe without this balkan lung is not europe. the european union must be able to take part in the negotiations on the accession of croatia, a european country with a european culture and history, as soon as possible. but let us also think realistically about the early admission of countries such as serbia, montenegro, macedonia and bosnia and herzegovina. this is a really important thing. turkey is a tune for a much more distant future, not a question of the next 10 years, i suppose.
madam president! turkey's accession to the european union is controversial in some quarters. however, in order to ensure that this process is mutually understood, quality must be ensured. the fulfilment of strict but clear conditions, understood and accepted by both sides, is the basis for the admission of new members, including turkey. i would now like to thank the rapporteur, mrs rii oomen-ruijten, for her comprehensive report on turkey's progress in 2009. this year it is more critical and, unfortunately, rightly draws attention to the little progress turkey has made, especially in the areas of civil liberties and justice. but last year was not only a stagnation in the democratization process, so we should be critical of where there was no progress or even regression, but also appreciate the changes for the better. on the one hand, turkey has failed to uphold the rule of law, and of course the constitution is at the heart of these rights and it should be given priority. on the other hand, turkey is putting a lot of effort into the negotiations that have begun and i welcome the recognition of the change and the turkish willingness to continue reforms to meet the copenhagen criteria. but good intentions are not enough. ankara still faces many challenges on its path to eu membership, and these challenges are not easy. i trust that turkey will overcome all obstacles, and i wish turkey good luck in reforming the country.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. i welcome you as warmly as i welcome all my colleagues, and i wish you much perseverance during the next few years of work. i know that on the first day we should not talk about the end of the mandate, but i wish you, commissioner, that by speaking here at the end of this mandate, and of course i wish you many other mandates, you will be able to meet us in the new enlarged european union of perhaps 30 countries. i would ask the commissioner to look beyond the important countries we are talking about here today to other countries which are aspiring to join the european union. the commissioner, like myself, comes from a country that has just joined the european union, and i think that you, i and all our colleagues from all these new member states understand how important this is for our societies when we join the european union. we wish the same for the countries we are talking about today. i have a small dream as a pole, and i wanted to end my speech with this: that croatia, the country most advanced in the negotiations, might succeed in joining the european union during the forthcoming polish presidency.
madam president! i realize how difficult it is in the social circumstances there to make every effort for democracy and human rights by the government in ankara. i appreciate that very much, but i would like to draw attention to a problem that has been under-emphasized in this debate. the problem is religious freedom, which in turkey is still restricted, especially for christians. in turkey, we still have a problem with religious communities getting legal status. christian communities, despite the introduction of the law on foundations, have serious problems with the recovery of confiscated property. the ecumenical patriarchate has limited rights in the area of clergy training and the free election of the patriarch. i am very grateful to the rapporteur for highlighting all these aspects in her report. at the same time, i regret that this issue was completely omitted in the speech of minister lópez garrido. minister, on a personal note, the less ideology there is in the field of human rights, the better.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. according to a report by the international crisis group, 2009 was to be a decisive year for turkey's integration into the european union. there was either a breakthrough in the accession negotiations or the talks were to be terminated. today, talks are still ongoing on the next accession areas. although the spanish presidency says it wants ankara to join the community as soon as possible, there are increasing signs that ankara is redefining its place in the global system, where its membership of the community is not a priority. the visa waiver for jordan, libya, iran, syria, the tightening of relations with israel, the tightening of relations with sudan, the signing of an agreement on the establishment of diplomatic relations with armenia and the blocking of an agreement with cyprus all indicate that ankara is increasingly focused on cooperation with its neighbors, even at the cost of weakening its position in accession negotiations. the issue of energy security and turkey's key position mean that it is slowly becoming essential for the protection of european interests. it may soon be that we are more concerned about turkey's accession to the european union than about the european union itself. i therefore call on the commission and the council to redefine the prospect of turkey's membership of the european union.
in writing. croatia, due to its geopolitical situation and historical considerations, should undoubtedly join the european union as soon as possible. despite the many tensions in the neighbourhood and the ethnic conflicts that arose during the civil war, i cannot imagine a fully integrated and united europe without croatia. the positive news is that negotiations started in 2004 and, in the absence of disruption, should be completed this year, given the 28 areas required for closure. the accession of croatia to the north atlantic treaty structures in april 2009 has significantly strengthened its accession legitimacy. only its accession will guarantee stability in the historically defined 'balkan cauldron'. i hope to shake hands with my croatian colleagues when i sit on the benches of the european parliament at the beginning of 2012.
in writing. on 1 may 2004, the day of the great enlargement of the european union to include the countries of central and eastern europe, the division of europe by the iron curtain was finally overcome. not all central and eastern european countries were then part of the european family. it became clear that the 'great enlargement' would have to be continued by the accession of individual countries in the region. in 2007, romania and bulgaria joined the european union. however, the accession of these countries cannot be considered the end of the enlargement of the european union. the country closest to joining the eu is croatia. i fully support the conclusion of the negotiations by croatia as soon as possible, which will lead to the country's accession to the european union as soon as possible. i appeal to both sides of the negotiation to be as flexible as possible and to be willing to compromise. at the same time, i appeal to croatia to step up its efforts to bring the organisation of public administration and the judiciary into line with community requirements and to improve the mechanisms for effectively combating organised crime and corruption. i also join the calls for croatia to show maximum goodwill in cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia.
in writing. one of the key copenhagen criteria which must be met in order to become a member of the european union is the respect for human rights. i would like to draw attention to the notorious violations of women's rights. almost every day, the press reports more murders of women, called honor killings. the press portrays the figure of 16-year-old medine memi, brutally murdered by her own father and grandfather. shockingly, the two men took the life not only of a girl who allowed herself to talk to boys but also of the way in which they committed the crime. as the autopsy revealed, buried in the chicken coop, madine was still alive and conscious at the time of burial. the unimaginable suffering of a dying teenager was to be compensation for the stain on the family's honor. what is frightening is that the medina incident is not a single incident, but a large-scale, barbaric phenomenon. fearing for her life, the teenager reported the incident to the police several times - to no avail, as she was sent home each time. murders, rooted in generations of turkish tradition, are often interpreted to benefit men who are supposedly acting to clear the family's tarnished honor. the country, which has not yet tackled this issue, remains separated by a wide gap from europe, which is a guardian of basic values. this difference is a serious obstacle to the building of a common identity.
mr president, on behalf of the authors of the resolution just adopted on iran i would like to request that the parliamentary services translate this text into farsi so that the iranian regime and people can fully understand the clear message sent today by the european parliament. (applause)
mr. chairman, please! i voted for the resolution on iran, aware that it is one of the major problems and challenges facing europe as well. at the same time, i did not support the amendment by a section of our colleagues who wanted to recognize iran as an enemy of the west. we should be aware of the great culture and history of this country. the current iranian authorities may deny this great history and culture. we should see a partner in the future government of iran. we record information about further executions, further death sentences. we must have a basic human solidarity with those who want a better iran, one that is a partner of the west, not an enemy.
mr. chairman, please! we are living in the 21st century and we consider ourselves civilized nations, yet the issue of human trafficking remains an unsolved, and indeed a growing, problem. the victims of human trafficking are mostly women and children, and the penalties for trafficking are not high enough to discourage trafficking. europe must take more active action to curb this shameful practice. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls for the development of effective tools to combat this phenomenon and for better coordination between the member states and the relevant operational bodies of the european union, with the hope that it will have a positive impact.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against this report too. i did that even though i'm a gender equality advocate. i cannot, however, agree that abortion is treated in this report as a specific right and, as mrs lulling said, as a method of birth control. in my country, abortion is not understood that way. i'm convinced that it's an internal matter of how we interpret abortion. and the danger is that this report breaks the subsidiarity principle, and it breaks it for the wrong reasons.
mr. chairman, please! equality between women and men is an important issue. much progress has been made in this area, but there are still areas where women are treated worse than men. we're making less and less, women are more at risk of poverty, it's harder for women to advance in science or business. the report of the parliament notes these problems and stresses the need for concrete measures to ensure equal participation of men and women in the labour market and education. i regret that i could not support this proposal. i voted against the report because it contained a reference to the widespread use of abortion in the european union. first, those matters fall within the exclusive competence of the member states. secondly, the issue of unwanted pregnancies is a big issue, but we cannot pass legislation that treats abortion as a free contraceptive. nor can i agree that abortion should release me from the consequences and responsibilities of entering into a sexual relationship. i think a man's life deserves more than that.
mr. president, skrzylewska is also a very difficult name, but i've gotten used to the fact that few people can pronounce it correctly. in today's vote, we voted on the report on equality between women and men in the european union in 2009. however, between the entries on problems of discrimination against women and their more difficult situation in the labour market, there were entries calling on member states to allow universal access to abortion and reproductive health services. i would point out that the decision on abortion is a matter for the member states. that is why i voted against the report in the final vote, because i believe that in fighting for the right to equal treatment for women and men, we should not make it dependent on choices in the sexual sphere.
in writing. the earthquake that struck haiti in january this year is one of the greatest humanitarian disasters of the 21st century. the scale of the disaster is magnified by the fact that the devastating elements have been at work in one of the poorest countries in the world. the tragedy has turned the eyes of the world on haiti. humanitarian aid cannot be reduced to 'reconstructing' the island, but must be based on the rebuilding of its social relations in a spirit of respect for human dignity and social justice. to do this, it is necessary not only to provide aid to haiti, but also to give the country and its people a clean slate. that's why i support calls to cancel haiti's international debt. at the same time, i oppose solutions that would result in international aid being used to increase haiti's debt. in view of all these factors, i have decided to support the european parliament's joint motion for a resolution on the recent earthquake in haiti.
in writing. - i would like to express my support for the resolution which aims to clearly define the european union's position on respect for fundamental human rights in iran. like most of us, i am outraged by the way the iranian opposition has been treated. the death sentences of mohammed reza alizamani and arash rahmani for political activities are, in my opinion, beyond the standards of the modern world. i am glad that the eu is taking a clear position on this issue. at the same time, i would like to express my regret that the equally strong reaction was not met by the fact that the russian opposition was prevented from organising a demonstration on 31 january 2010 in moscow and st petersburg and that the organisers of the demonstration, including the chairman of the memorials association, sakharov prize laureate oleg orlov, were arrested. i believe that the eu high representative's response to this issue should be as dynamic as in the case of iran, and also coincide with the strong criticism of the russian authorities by the president of the european parliament, mr buzek.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? i voted to pass the human trafficking resolution. human trafficking is one of the worst things that people can do to their fellow man. what's frightening is how common this terrible phenomenon is. i can find no excuse, no mitigating circumstances for those who trample all the values that we hold dear. human trafficking is a denial of freedom, dignity, equality. i hope that the european parliament will contribute to the reduction and, in the future, the total elimination of trafficking in human beings.
in writing. - human trafficking is one of the greatest scourges of the early 21st century. it is no exaggeration to call it a "modern form of slavery". it's a highly profitable business, controlled by dangerous organized crime groups. i fully support the motion for a resolution (b7-0029/2010) on combating trafficking in human beings tabled by a broad coalition of political groups in the ep. i believe that it is the responsibility of the european commission to develop an action plan to combat trafficking in human beings effectively. at the same time, i fully support the call by the authors of the resolution for the appointment of an eu coordinator for the fight against trafficking in human beings under the supervision of the commissioner for justice, fundamental rights and citizenship. i hope this will be a new impetus to intensify the efforts against human trafficking.
in writing. - human trafficking is the most blatant form of human rights violation. each year, more and more people are being sold into slavery. the detection rate for this type of crime is very low. that is why i support the european parliament's resolution on combating trafficking in human beings. we must fight human trafficking by all means possible. the first step is to launch a comprehensive and credible information campaign to show the scale of the problem and to make the public aware of it. it is not enough to provide incidental, individual information on detected cases of trafficking in human beings. it is also necessary to indicate the addresses of the institutions fighting this practice. a report presented in january 2010 by the legal aid centre and la strada foundation, entitled 'preventing trafficking in central and eastern european women: information - prevention - identification - intervention', points out that there are no procedures in place in poland to ensure that victims of trafficking are protected. one of the biggest problems is the protracted work to introduce a modern definition of trafficking in human beings into the criminal code. in 2005, the council of europe convention on action against trafficking in human beings was signed in warsaw. it took the lawyers three years to ratify it. to date, there is no binding definition of trafficking in human beings, which makes it difficult to conduct investigative and judicial proceedings and thus to respect human rights in poland.
in writing. - this resolution shows that the 'ipcc's' views have not been understood. the main weakness of cop 15 was the underestimation of: the sensitivity of third and developing countries, as well as some eu countries, to climate justice; the fact that the two largest world powers, the us and china, are competing with each other both economically and militarily; the fact that ambitious projects to reduce co2 emissions were based on the scientifically unreliable paradigm of anthropogenic climate warming. the alarmist claims of the ipcc should be considered highly irresponsible, because the political and economic decisions based on them affect many future generations. so they cannot rely on the opinion of men who are carrying out the presupposition that man is warming the climate. the ipcc's scientific credibility is called into question by, among others: the climategate affair - falsifying global temperature trends (russia and australia); the glaciergate affair. therefore, any legal regulations that are detrimental to the development of the european economy arising from the ipcc's claims should be reviewed immediately. it is time for the european commission to rely on its own meta-analysis of climate research, carried out by a team of climate scientists, independent of the commission's opinion and any political pressure, on a matter as important to civilization as climate change. the last two points are missing from the resolution and that is why i voted against its adoption.
in writing. - the copenhagen climate summit was rightly considered a failure by most observers. it's hard to resist the impression that in copenhagen, world leaders were playing a game where the stakes were not to come up with the best deal, but to blame one side for not coming up with a deal. it is worrying that, despite the establishment of a common position, the eu has not been able to make it a platform for agreement with other countries. the european union must start working towards a successful conclusion of the cop16 conference in mexico. the climate agreement that the eu should promote must have three basic characteristics: it must be legally binding, it must be solidary and it must be ambitious. the decisions taken at the eu summit in seville, where it was agreed that the eu would not reduce its emissions by more than 20% by 2020 compared to 1990, should be welcomed with concern. it was reiterated that the condition for raising the reduction target to 30% is that other countries make such a declaration in advance. however, the international situation is such that only the eu can provide the impetus for more substantial reductions. no one can do it for the eu, and the eu cannot relinquish its role as the global promoter of radical measures to combat global warming. the eu needs to mobilise the €7.2 billion it has committed to the least developed and most vulnerable countries.
in writing. − although the copenhagen climate conference failed to reach a decision on the scope and scale of the emission reductions and the financial resources allocated to them, i do not consider it a failure, although it certainly did not meet the eu's expectations. expectations that were irrational in terms of both the size of the proposed greenhouse gas reductions and the financial expectations for climate change mitigation. and then there was a little bit of arrogance in declaring leadership in the fight against climate change. i think we are still at a stage where it is not appropriate to make binding and final decisions. this is partly due to the fact that there is still a lack of reliable scientific data on climate change and human involvement in this process. recently, we have seen a debate among experts and scientists on this subject, which confirms that there is no consensus on the effects of global warming. the economic crisis, which is forcing economies to save and cut spending, is another argument for postponing the final decision. in difficult times of economic recession, social issues such as combating unemployment and poverty, promoting entrepreneurship and other measures to accelerate economic growth require priority treatment.
in writing. - i voted against the resolution. the author, mr marc tarabella, did not take into account the national context. morality is a part of the worldview incorporated into the legal system of a country. the attempt to incorporate the possibility of free access to abortion into polish legislation is unnatural and obviously contradictory. in keeping with my conscience and taking into account the legal rules in force in poland, i voted against the resolution, thus giving a clear signal that in such sensitive matters, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, each of the 27 member states is the sole legislator.
in writing. − i voted for listing the bluefin tuna in cites appendix i, as a majority of the fao ad hoc expert advisory panel considered that the available evidence supported the proposal to include it there. the species has suffered a marked decline, is greatly overfished and is threatened by overexploitation for international trade. it therefore meets the criteria for listing in cites appendix i.
in writing. - we adopted an important resolution assessing the state of play of the accession negotiations with croatia. it is important that the actions to be taken are indicated in order to accelerate the accession talks so that they can be technically completed in 2010. the croatian authorities should pay more attention to better informing the public about the benefits of eu membership. the functioning of the single european market will bring croatia increased trade, investment inflows and overall economic growth. support from the eu will also be important for modernising the economy, building infrastructure and restructuring agriculture. examples of the benefits that countries have gained from the last two enlargements can be found here. the very fact of belonging to a united europe will probably have a bearing. negotiations on fisheries, the environment and the common foreign and security policy should be unblocked as soon as possible. i expect the presidency and the commission to take concrete action in this respect. we have said that further enlargements can only be made after the treaty has been adopted. there is the lisbon treaty and the negotiations on croatia's membership and the preparations for enlargement of the union to include the other balkan countries must be accelerated. this is very important for the stability of the region.
in writing. - turkey has done a lot to meet the copenhagen criteria. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. but when it comes to political change, democracy, human rights, despite the great progress in the creation of laws, the implementation of laws is worse. and that's something that we have to understand, because it requires a change in social consciousness, and it's a slow change. but european standards on human rights, women's rights, the treatment of prisoners and the treatment of national and religious minorities must be respected. some opponents of turkish integration are guided by non-critical considerations, others by the fear that it is a large country that will have a large influence on decisions in the union, because according to the lisbon treaty, the strength of the votes of individual countries depends on the number of inhabitants. turkey's membership is certainly a heavy burden on the eu budget. but it must be borne in mind that this is a large market which is important for the union. turkey is a major nato member, a major partner of the us and many of its member countries. it is also a region that enables the transfer of energy resources to europe. finally, let us remember that turkey can be a bridge for interreligious, intercultural and even macro-regional dialogue. turkey's presence in the union can help stabilise a large and important region of the world. turkey must understand that you cannot change your history. you have to admit your mistakes. it's easier to live and to have positive relationships with your neighbors.
the next item is the report by jeanine hennis-plasschaert, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the recommendation concerning the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the united states of america on the processing and transfer of financial intelligence data from the european union to the united states for the purposes of the terrorist finance tracking program (05305/2010 - c7-0004/2010 - 2009/0190nle) (a7-0013/2010). as you know, the european parliament has taken a number of measures in this area. our parliament is made up of members elected directly by the citizens of europe. we have a responsibility to protect civil rights first and foremost. we're well aware of that. this is our first and foremost responsibility. at the same time, we are aware of the importance of the swift agreement for entirely different reasons. therefore, proper focus on this was important. at the same time, the treaty of lisbon has entered into force in recent months. i wrote to prime minister rainfeldt, who was president of the council at the time, last november, asking him to postpone the decision and to take account of the european parliament's decision, in accordance with the treaty of lisbon. as you know, that did not happen, and on 30 november the council took a decision on this matter, adopting the swift agreement. on december 21st, i wrote another letter to prime minister rainfeldt. parliament expected two things in this letter: that our position in the negotiating mandate for a permanent agreement be taken into account, and that parliament be fully informed during future negotiations. i wrote a similar letter to prime minister zapatero, who is currently chairing the rotating presidency, on 21 january, and i repeated it on 8 february. at the same time, i wrote a letter to president barroso in the same spirit. i also had contact with representatives of the us government, with mrs. hillary clinton. i also received a letter on this matter, setting out the position of the united states government on the swift agreement. you may know all this, these documents are available. i have sent all the documents to the political groups. so you can use them anytime. this is important. we need to have all the information we need to make a responsible decision on this. and that's what we're going to be discussing today. that's why this swift discussion is so important. and i am very pleased that we have representatives of the council who can speak, and representatives of the european commission. and then our discussion and our responsibility to decide this matter.
acting president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by making a clear statement: spain has clearly and unequivocally supported the treaty of lisbon. from the very beginning. and he did so in the conviction that the implementation of this new treaty would mean, among many other things, bringing the european institutions closer to our fellow citizens. it is an objective which the treaty entrusts to a large extent to this parliament. the most important aspect of this treaty, its participation in matters such as the area of freedom, justice and security, is the way in which it aims to bring citizens and institutions closer together. the spanish presidency therefore begins this speech by assuring the honourable members of the commitment to joint work, to loyal collaboration between the council and this parliament, as a result of our firm commitment to the lisbon treaty and its objectives. the council also shares with this house its concern to ensure the security of all european citizens; security as a guarantee for the full exercise of freedom. this is the context in which our common fight against terrorism, against terrorism of all kinds, takes place. as stated in the resolution adopted on 17 september, 'the european parliament reiterates its determination to fight terrorism and its firm conviction that a proper balance must be struck between security measures and the protection of public freedoms and fundamental rights'. i couldn't agree more with that statement. this is the framework in which i would like this debate to take place, a new framework - the treaty framework - of open interinstitutional cooperation, and a shared concern, which is no longer new: that of fighting terrorism in accordance with the principles of proportionality and necessity, which are at the same time the guarantee of full effectiveness in this fight. it is commonly accepted, mr president, that international terrorism has posed new challenges to our societies. it is a relatively new form of terrorism, of diffuse organization, of extreme lethality and operating on a global scale. its eradication is therefore also being considered on a global scale. the lack of rigid structures, of hierarchical structures, can only be combated by an extraordinary effort of information. its lethality has led us to extreme surveillance in places of high public affluence. prevention, coordination and information are the three words that sum up our strategy to deal with this enormous threat. all the countries have therefore made efforts to coordinate themselves better, internally and externally, to be better and better informed, to cooperate, finally, with those who are facing the same struggle with us. the european union too: there has been a proliferation of joint research bodies and teams, exchanges of information and shared analyses. this is the context in which the agreement between the european union and the united states on the transfer of financial data which we are discussing today is situated. the exchange of data without an agreement has been operating for years without interruption. in my appearance in the libe committee two weeks ago, several members asked me about the results of this exchange of data. it was a pertinent question that appears to be addressed and answered in the second report of judge bruguière, which has been sent to this chamber and which i also quote verbatim: 'during 2009, the tftp has been a highly valuable instrument to assist in the preparation of terrorist maps, to complete missing elements in investigations, to confirm the identity of suspects, to locate their geographical location, to identify new suspects and to thwart, in short, attempts at terrorist attacks'. and i add, not just in 2009, but also before, in the united states, in europe and around the world: in barcelona in january 2008, in germany in the summer of 2007, in london after the 7 july attacks and in the investigations into the 11 march 2004 attacks in madrid, the bangkok murder in april 2005, or the 2002 bali bombings. these are some of the examples the judge cites in his report. the exchange of data has therefore produced good results. the exchange has allowed for the investigation of bombings. it's prevented a bombing. it has made it possible to arrest terrorists after they have committed attacks and, above all, before they can commit them. although swift had previously indicated in 2007 that it would change its databases, the decision was not taken until a few months ago. this necessitated a review of the protocols which, up to that date, had allowed the operation of financial data exchanges. it had to be done in a very short time. the mandate was adopted by the council in the summer of 2009, and had to be done at a time of uncertainty about the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. the decision that was taken is well known. a provisional, interim agreement was signed for nine months, which must be ratified in this house: a temporary agreement for nine months, during which time this house, the council and the commission should establish a new negotiating process to agree on a final treaty. that was the decision. it may not have been the best. but it should be made clear in this house that the agreement signed ad referendum, the agreement we are discussing today, is, as far as the defence of privacy is concerned, much better than the protocols in force up to the time before the agreement. that is because that interim agreement incorporated additional guarantees, among other things, recommended by this house and recalled by its rapporteur in the report we have just seen today. at this point i would like to say that the spanish presidency of the council has taken full account of the resolutions adopted in this house and the letters sent by the president of this parliament, as well as the report drawn up by mrs hennis-plasschaert, which was voted on in the libe committee on 4 february. that is why it adopted a declaration in the council and sent it to this house yesterday, the main points of which i would like to summarize here today. first, the council commits itself to fully incorporating in a final agreement the strong safeguards reinforcing effective protection, data suppression and greater concreteness with regard to the exchange of information obtained by the tftp with national authorities and with third countries. and it is, of course, committed to reinforcing the safeguards already contained in the current agreement and which should continue to appear 'reinforced', i insist, in the final agreement, as a strict limitation of the purpose of the use of data and an absolute ban on the extraction of data and the use of profiles. finally, in response to the new context created by the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the council undertook to negotiate an interinstitutional agreement to allow more rapid access to classified documents in international agreements. in this matter - and i want to state this very strongly in this house - the spanish presidency expresses its full commitment to the lisbon treaty and to the charter of fundamental rights, in particular article 8, and also takes on board the legitimate concerns expressed by this house. today we know that the compromise i have just formulated is possible. in the letter to the president of parliament from the us secretaries of state, hillary clinton, and of the treasury, timothy geithner, the us government has expressed its commitment to incorporate appropriate safeguards in accordance with the position expressed in this parliament. it is possible, ladies and gentlemen, that in the process of approving the agreement we are discussing today, the council did not do things quite right. but what is certain is that in this process the council has learned and that in this act the council takes note of parliament's concerns. as it is, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement we are discussing today has contributed - and i hope will continue to do so - to improving the security of our citizens all over the world and also in europe.
thank you, mr. chairman! i would remind you, as i said before, that i have received a reply from the council to the letters i sent. they are available to you at any time in the political groups. the council is responding to our expectations, to parliament's expectations. i thank the president for making this statement and for explaining the council's position on this matter. this is very important to us.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me start by thanking everyone for yesterday giving us and me your trust and confidence by voting ‘yes’ for the new commission. it is an interesting first day at work and i am grateful to share with you the important issue of sharing information with the us for the purpose of combating terrorism, this time in relation to the terrorist finance tracking program (tftp). the european parliament has, of course, shown great interest in this matter. this is quite right, since the tftp confronts us again with the challenge of reconciling data-sharing with data protection and, if we take up this challenge, this helps us to give citizens security, privacy and data protection. one of the aims of the interim agreement has been to ensure implementation of the conditions in the european parliament resolution of september 2009. we firmly intend to strengthen further the data protection part when negotiating the long-term agreement, particularly concerning the right to receive information about whether one’s rights have been respected under the agreement, and stronger guarantees about effective redress, lawful data processing and the deletion of data. the second bruguière report was made available to meps on monday last week, and it demonstrates the significance and the value of tftp in the investigation and disruption of terrorism, including in the european union. the report confirms that tftp has been used to identify and arrest individuals who have subsequently been convicted of terrorism within our member states. the report also highlights that tftp is a valuable source of reliable information necessary in the fight against terrorism. there are specific examples and the council referred to a few of them. we know that the threat of terrorism in some of our member states remains as high as ever, and i am sure that you can see that rejection of the interim agreement by this house would represent a serious blow to eu security. some of our member states have made it very clear that they want the tftp to continue because they have benefited from it in the past and will continue to do so. they have told us that the reliable information that the tftp provides on known and suspected terrorism is an important source of legitimate intelligence needed to address the complex threat, notably from al-qa’ida inspired terrorism. the interim agreement is not only a favour to the us; it is in our common interest. much has been said about the level of protection of data in the interim agreement and this is, of course, a key concern. i encourage members – and i am sure most of you have already done so – to look closely at the interim agreement. you will see that it contains significant and detailed legally binding commitments on the way that the us treasury department can process data under the agreement. they include, for example, a strict limitation on the purpose of processing, which is limited to the investigation, detection and prosecution of terrorism. it includes an absolute prohibition on data mining – searches of the database can only be undertaken where it is possible to show a reason to believe that the subject of the search is engaged in terrorism. that means that the data held on the tftp database are effectively anonymous. only if there is a reason to believe that one identified person is a terrorist can the data of that person be seen and extracted from the database. this is important. the interim agreement obliges the treasury department to delete data within five years of receipt – a period which is in keeping with the retention period in eu legislation on terrorist financing. the agreement also provides for a detailed eu review in which some of our own data protection authorities will participate to ensure that these and many other data protection obligations are complied with. the agreement does not involve the transfer of virtually all swift data to the us treasury department. i can assure you that only a fraction of swift data will be transferred under the interim agreement. it does not in any way affect the powers of data protection authorities with regard to processing activities performed in the eu by swift or financial institutions. refusal of consent will bring to an end the interim agreement, including the significant data protection safeguard it contains. if the us is able to access data by other means – for example through bilateral relations with the netherlands – those safeguards will no longer apply. if the interim agreement falls, it is likely to take considerable time before any alternative can be put in place. so refusal of consent risks leading to both a data protection gap and a security gap. finally, the interim agreement is only an interim agreement. it might not be the best agreement in the world. it can – and it will – be improved. the commission is now finalising the draft mandate and the guidelines for the long-term agreement and we will adopt them swiftly. i give a personal commitment to you to ensure that the european parliament’s concern will be addressed and that we shall seek a strong protection of privacy and data protection in the new agreement. the european parliament will be fully informed at all stages of this procedure. i hope that this answers a few of your questions.
we thank you for your explanation, commissioner, which was very important to us. these are some of the statements which the council and the european commission have just made on our expectations for the future negotiating mandate and for the information to be given to parliament. there is another important element in our work: the european parliament has become co-responsible for european legislation. we are also responsible for international agreements such as the agreement on swift and we are sending this strong signal that the situation has changed since the lisbon treaty. this is important. i think that the recent signals from the us government show that it has become clear that the european parliament today has full responsibility for legislation. we'd like to make sure that the signal is strong. but we know that we are accountable to our citizens. we are directly elected members of the european parliament. our responsibility to protect civil rights is fundamental and we always stress this.
colleagues, this is a very important discussion. i do not want to disturb you but you are all talking half a minute longer than you should. there are 11 people on the list. if you all talk for such a long time then i cannot give the floor to the others.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw attention to two things that i think are important. there is no discussion about fighting terrorism, but there is discussion about how and what agreements should be signed with the americans on this matter. i would like to raise two points. first of all, this agreement is a one-sided agreement, it's a one-sided agreement. are we thinking about the possibility of european agencies also obtaining data from the us, which would also help to combat terrorism here in europe? the second question the main complaint concerns the fact that all financial data will be available. i emphasize the word "all". i think we should continue to work in such a way that the american and european special services can only obtain data from those entities that are already suspect.
acting president of the council. - mr president, the first thing i would like to say is that i have listened to all the honourable members with interest and i am grateful for all the speeches, those of support, which were the fewest, and those of criticism, which were the most, which i also thank. i should like to begin by saying that what i am most grateful for is that i have seen, once again, in this debate in this house, that there is perfect harmony between parliament, the commission and the council in defending our values and in facing with determination terrorism - as i said in my speech - terrorism of all kinds. i think that's a first consensus that should be clear. as regards the agreement we have discussed this afternoon, the agreement on swift, i would like to draw a distinction between the criticisms, which have been of two radically different types: criticisms of the form and criticisms of the substance. it is true that criticism of the form has been constant, even among those members who have explicitly supported the existence of an agreement such as the one we are discussing this afternoon. i have already said in my speech, and i say again, that things could probably have been done better, that they certainly could have been done better. but i have also said, and i repeat once again, that the deadlines - and the honourable members are well aware of them - were what they were and that the council and the commission had to act in a very short space of time. in any case, i want to make it very clear that the council's will, as i have expressed it here this afternoon, is that things should no longer be done this way, that things should be done differently. there have been some members who have said - probably on the basis of their experience - that this is a promise, a commitment, which has been made repeatedly in this house and then, repeatedly, has been broken. i would like to say that the council's commitment is based on a fundamental commitment to the treaty of lisbon, and that the treaty of lisbon sets as a fundamental objective that this house should play an increasingly important role in the institutional life of europe so that citizens feel better represented. and it is this commitment of my country, which is a fundamental commitment to the treaty of lisbon, which leads me to state here, emphatically, that the council, during the spanish presidency, will do things differently. if anyone does not take the council's word for it - that is their right - it should be remembered that the treaty requires that things be done differently. so if the political will of the council is not enough, there is the treaty, which is a law, to ensure that things will be done differently in the future, with this house, working with the commission and, of course, with the spirit that all the members have defended here, which is a spirit that seeks a balance between defending security and maintaining our values and it is a fully european spirit with which the council also fully agrees. i would like to make three comments on the substance of the matter. i shall not go into some of the more specific aspects which have been criticised - it is true that some of these aspects have been criticised which i consider to be ill-founded. for example, it has been said on several occasions that the swift agreement, as it stands at the moment in this house, allows for the transfer of raw data and it has not been said, and it should be made clear, that this is not the logic of the agreement, that such a raw transfer is only allowed under the swift agreement exceptionally and as long as there are justified suspicions (article 4 (6) of the agreement). i'm just giving you an example. there have been a number of other allegations which i believe are the result of a somewhat superficial analysis of the content of the agreement, but which i shall not answer at this stage. i would like to say two more things about the substance of the matter. first of all, i would like to stress - as the commissioner has done and as some of the honourable members in this house have done - that the agreement has been useful in the fight against terrorism. i have given some examples. there are more examples in the report by mr bruguière than are available to members. i can even give an example of what i have just said, from my own country, or rather two. it is true that the swift agreement was used to investigate the 11 march attacks in madrid, with good results. and it is no less true, too, that the swift agreement was used to prevent an attack in the city of barcelona just over a year ago. today, those who tried are all condemned in spanish prisons. so it has worked, it has allowed us to get results. and if so, you will agree with me that if the agreement were to be suspended, european citizens would indeed be at least a little less safe. if the agreement works and has worked and is interrupted, you will admit with me that the interruption would leave us a little less secure. i use this formula deliberately so that no one can accuse the council of being dramatic. we'd be a little less safe. it's like this. that is why i am very much insisting from the council - and i think the commission also agrees that it is essential - that this agreement is not interrupted, as i insist on recalling, once again, that this agreement may be open to criticism and i have heard the harsh criticism here this afternoon. but you will also agree with me that this agreement is much better than the protocol which has for years facilitated the exchange of data between the united states and the european union. the agreement we are discussing here today is probably not the best. it is certainly improvable, and i can even agree with some of the criticisms that have been made from these seats, but you must agree with me that it is better than what was before. the european union, the council and the commission have introduced some mechanisms into the agreement which are of concern to meps - and rightly so - and which are mainly concerned with ensuring that security does not come at the expense of freedom and fundamental rights. that is why i would stress the importance, as the commissioner said, of not interrupting the agreement. and i reiterate to parliament once again the council's willingness to negotiate a new agreement - this definitive agreement - in which many of the things we have heard here this afternoon can be incorporated and with which the council wants to publicly confirm that it agrees. that is the council's commitment. it is true that this commitment has also been expressed in a letter from the president of the council to the president of parliament, but it will have to be made more concrete in any case when the negotiations begin. we are therefore discussing today an interim, transitional agreement which improves the present situation. we are discussing an agreement which will last nine months, which are the months that the commission, the council and parliament will spend in reaching a new agreement - this one already final - in which we can put down all the reasonable precautions which this parliament has put forward in the debate this afternoon. the council cannot deny the debate that took place here this afternoon. we cannot ignore the fact that this agreement has been the subject of much criticism. i am sure that some of the criticisms are more justified than others, but i think it is worthwhile to open the way to some reflection and i would like to ask parliament for time on behalf of the council. time, of course, to consult and comment on this debate with my colleagues in the council, time to comment with the commission and time, above all, to explore with the united states the possibilities which i believe are real for a better agreement; time, ladies and gentlemen, mr president, to be able to come to this parliament in a few weeks, a few months, and to be able to certify here that we do indeed have the basis for signing a final agreement in which the concerns which have been expressed today by your honourable members are duly reflected. i repeat, these are in many cases the same concerns as those of the council.
member of the commission. − mr president, this has been an extremely important debate. that is totally accurate because we talk about such important matters as how we can maintain the security of our citizens but also maintain good information and exchange systems with a high level of data protection. there have been, as the president of the council said, a few questions, and a few misunderstandings, i think. some of them are answered in the bruguière report, so i would really encourage you to read that. but i think we need to understand and remember why we have an interim agreement. why do we have it? well, it was because swift was moving and we were finding ourselves in a situation where we did not have a regulation on the transfer of data, so the council and the commission moved swiftly to arrange something. we did achieve certain concessions from the united states and some very good data-protection mechanisms. also, two member countries concerned asked the commission to be involved in order to have a european approach on this and avoid bilateral agreements. this is important to recall. now this is an interim agreement, as i said; it can and it will be improved. it is the full intention of the commission and the council to involve the european parliament under the lisbon treaty in the permanent agreement. we need to have more clarification concerning redress, lawful data processing and deletion of data. the permanent agreement will also include guarantees of rectification, access to information. mr lambrinidis asked why the commission does not have that. well, mr lambrinidis, the commission has been in office for 16 hours and 20 minutes. this is an extremely important negotiating mandate. we need to be able to discuss this together, within the new commission, before we formulate the full negotiating mandate to discuss with the european parliament. we have only very recently taken office so you could not expect us to have done this. but we will make sure – and mr barroso expressed this very clearly in the letter to mr buzek – that we are working on the negotiating mandate; we will present it to the european parliament as soon as possible and make sure that you are fully informed the whole way on this. it might be a very good idea to postpone the vote and we might need more time to discuss the mandate. you will see the negotiation mandate; you will have time to look at the papers, the reports and so on, and the commission is willing, as i said, to work together with you and the council for a good – and much better – permanent agreement on this.
colleagues, the blue-card rule does not operate during presentations by the council and commission, but this is an extremely important discussion. we must take a decision tomorrow. this is not according to the rules, but could i ask you, mr president-in-office, to take two short – and i emphasise short – questions from mr schulz and mr lambrinidis – nothing more, as we could discuss this for another two hours.
acting president of the council. - mr president, one of your colleagues asks me for a specific time and a specific substance. as regards time, it is obviously not the same thing to bring to this house the basis for a final agreement, or to put it another way, to bring to this house commitments from the united states of america to incorporate some of the precautions, of the suggestions of this house, than to bring about a new agreement. if the honourable member asks me whether in a month's time we are able to bring a new agreement to this house, the answer is no. if you ask me whether we can bring to this house in a few months' time the result of talks with the united states, with the participation of this parliament - and i think that is substantive - and a result which will enable us to discuss whether we really, as the council believes, have reason to think that the final agreement will be much better than the one we have at the moment, my answer is yes. i think we're capable of doing that. and that's exactly what i'm asking. that is why i am not referring specifically to the rapporteur's proposal, which is a proposal which i have not considered this afternoon after seeing the general mood and the multiplicity of actions or interventions which have been made against the signing of the interim agreement. as i think things are as they are, it seems to me much more realistic - i repeat once again - to ask this house to give us the time within the - i would say - three months to bring here, for debate in this parliament, the basis of an agreement with the united states, or rather the elements which the united states and the european union (commission, council and parliament) believe should be incorporated into the final agreement to be negotiated. i think that under those conditions the debate we have today could be radically different.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 10 february 2010. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. the threat of terrorism is not diminishing. the recent suicide bombing of a plane from europe to the united states showed that there are people who are willing to kill hundreds of innocent people in the name of their fanatical beliefs. however, it would be a mistake to view acts of terrorism as the mere acts of desperate individuals. for every terrorist is backed by an organization that has trained him, provided him with explosives, and financed him. terrorism needs to be well organized to survive, and to do so, it needs money first. we must not stop our efforts to track the financial flows and determine where the funds to support terrorism come from. the efficient exchange of information between governments, mutual assistance in identifying suspected individuals and organisations is of the utmost importance to ensure the safety of the citizens of our countries. efforts shall be made to ensure that the necessary protection of personal data is ensured in the final agreement. but we must not forget that our primary objective should be to reduce terrorism, which remains a real threat also in europe. when security is at stake, political games should take a backseat. the european parliament should not demonstrate its position by rejecting the interim agreement with the us on the transfer of financial communications data which contributes to the security of our continent.
mr. chairman, please! in light of today's debate, the use of scanners at airports still leaves many questions. the safety of travellers is of course paramount, but the proportionality of the protection measures used must not be forgotten. the use of such devices still leaves a number of questions unanswered. what effect do scanners have on the health of the passengers being scanned? how will the image protection of the scanned persons be guaranteed? is it not better to seal off an existing system than to spend billions of dollars on devices that are known to be incapable of detecting charges placed inside the human body? until we know the answers to these questions, we should oppose the mandatory introduction of scanners at european airports. and finally, one last note: i feel like we've found a solution, and now we're looking for a problem. if scanners are the answer, they certainly do not solve the problem of airport security.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, listening to today's debate, one gets the impression that the main problem facing european countries today is whether to make body scanners more common at airports or to limit the possibility of introducing them. i don't think that's the right way to put it, though. nor is the issue of guaranteeing the protection of human rights so important in this respect. the fundamental question we should ask ourselves is whether the new measures and instruments proposed by the special services will be effectively used. do we really guarantee our freedom by sacrificing some of it for security? the information that we're receiving is very sceptical. if the relevant services are not even able to guarantee effective passport controls; if they cannot use the information they have (as the incident with the flight to detroit clearly showed), what guarantee do we have that they will be able to use the new instruments effectively? history teaches us that in times of crisis, the intelligence community tends to take the easy way out, demanding new powers, more money, better tools, but failing to take full advantage of the capabilities it already has. the european parliament has a very important role to play in this.
in writing. events in recent years have forced us to look for new solutions to ensure the greatest possible safety for travellers. the threat of terrorism makes it easier for us to accept restrictions on our freedom. i hope that before any decision is made to introduce body scanners in airports, a thorough analysis of their effectiveness, safety and the costs that will have to be incurred will be carried out. we don't want to see a repeat of the a1/h1n1 flu vaccine rollout, where governments panic and buy huge quantities of vaccines that are not yet used, without any manufacturer's safety guarantees. perhaps a more effective solution would be to use the israeli approach, where the emphasis is on observing the behaviour of passengers and the detailed control of those most suspicious, not all. this system has been proven to work for many years.
in writing. to fight terrorism effectively, we need harmonised action, including uniform eu rules on scanners. the rules adopted must take into account the protection of fundamental rights, personal data and, not least, the health of citizens. it is necessary to decide on the mandatory use of x-ray equipment. there's no point in even going into this if the controls are voluntary. because it's hard to imagine that terrorists would agree to an x-ray. and of course, the safety of health scanners is a very important issue. there are different opinions on this. from the opinion of the czech nuclear safety authority, which proves that the scanning devices emit radiation harmful to humans, to the french general directorate of civil aviation, which has declared them completely safe. further tests are necessary to identify the types of scanners that are safe for health and the possible side effects of their use. the studies should be coordinated by the european commission in full cooperation with the member states. the scanners used must have a safety certificate, which is the basis for their authorisation in all member states. this will avoid duplication of research costs between countries and ensure that the health of citizens is equally protected in each country.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. at some european airports, a new way of screening passengers has been introduced. along with the usual forms of security, full-body scanners have been used. most airline passengers are strongly opposed to these checks and see them as a violation of fundamental human rights, including the right to privacy and the protection of personal dignity. and what's more, and this is very important, is that they're exacerbated by the lack of knowledge about the health effects of the scanners on the people who are being scanned. nor are there clear regulations on the storage and security of data collected as a result of scanning. it is also argued that scanners do not perform as well as their manufacturers claim. let's hope that this doesn't turn out to be as effective as the swine flu vaccine, which was ultimately only effective in increasing the revenues of the pharmaceutical companies. in view of all these legitimate concerns, i believe that the european commission should lay down strict rules to protect passengers' rights while ensuring their safety.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. five years ago, this room was also, in a sense, experiencing the orange revolution. but a few weeks ago, also in the speech of president ashton - i share the regret of rebecca harms that she is not with us today - the question was whether the ukrainians had matured to the orange revolution, or had everything worked out? and here's the answer: 70 percent voter turnout is a really rare thing in europe, it's a really rare thing in our countries, too. and in that sense, elmar brok is wrong when he says that the orange revolution has lost. she won because it was about making sure there were rules that everyone could benefit from. we also know from poland such situations when democratic rules were used by someone who was previously against democracy. but that's good, that's how it should be. now it's time for our answer: did we do everything after the orange revolution? did we give that answer? in addition to all the instruments you are talking about, commissioner - and rightly so - have we said that the door to ukraine is open? can a country undergo deep reforms without this promise? can you encourage people to make sacrifices by telling them that they'll be in the lobby forever? but do we have to tell them: there is a place for you in europe, not today, not tomorrow, but there is a place. to say this is a great opportunity for the new commissioner füle. mrs. ashton didn't come in today. commissioner, be brave, be the person who starts saying that this place is, not today, not tomorrow, but it will be. it'll help the ukrainians a lot. this may be the last moment when we can say this and that is why every ukrainian must be convinced that integration, that cooperation with europe, that changing the law, is his personal chance. this can't be said only to the elite, only to the entrepreneurs, only to the students. it has to be said in a way that everyone understands that after all these years of communism, it's still worth giving up, that it's still worth doing something. this is your chance, commissioner, to say it clearly and you will go down in history and help not only ukraine but all of central europe, because the prosperity of ukraine, the security of ukraine is an opportunity for all of central europe. everyone needs to feel like this is their chance. and that is why, in addition to the association agreement - it is very important - we need to ease and in the future abolish the visa requirement for ukrainians. and let me be clear: the door to europe is open for ukraine. someone's got to say it after five years.
madam president, ukraine’s recent elections have shown that the country is a functioning democracy. the new president will be governing in the face of robust opposition and free media. it is to be hoped that the opposition will be constructive and the standards of governance in the country will improve. the election campaign confirmed that the ukrainian political elite wants to continue the process of integration with the european union and to maintain good neighbourly relations with russia. the european union must respond with clear signals welcoming both trends. at the same time, ukraine needs to speed up its reforms. if such progress is made, the eu must consider extending a promise of membership to ukraine. in the meantime, we should encourage and do much more for integration at the grassroots level. people-to-people exchanges, youth and school visits, scholarships, city and regional twinning arrangements and business contracts are the best way of spreading the message that reforms are the only way to a better future. what is most important at this moment is that the eu finds a way of liberalising the entry visa regime. we must ensure the greatest possible flow of people across our frontiers with ukraine. as one of my constituents wrote to me recently, help 1 000 people to travel to the eu from eastern ukraine and 100 000 will hear about their favourable impressions when they return. this is the way to underpin the reforms we want to see happening in this valuable democratic neighbours of ours.
madam president! there's a country in the former soviet union where the election results are unknown before the election. this is ukraine and we should be happy about it because we have our own merit in it. after these elections in ukraine, something will change, there will be a new president and this new president should be welcomed in the european union and in the european parliament. because the european trend is not a passing passion, it is a serious challenge, which is the ambition of millions of ukrainians. we need a new opening of the european union towards ukraine. let's not be driven by personal ambition. i understand that there is a bit of regret in the european people's party that the lady that the country cared about didn't win. but let's not push the new president of ukraine into moscow. that's the kind of partner you want. that's the partner you're gonna have to assign. it's a partner to be treated kindly. that is why, once again, we need a new european impulse, because this country is part of europe and we have to pursue this policy in our own interest.
in writing. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i have taken note of the information provided on the election of viktor yanukovych as president of ukraine. although ukraine is in a very difficult situation, there has been a change for the better in the law enforcement since the last election. i hope that the legal dispute over the election results will be resolved quickly and that both sides will focus on working to help ukraine emerge from the economic crisis and strengthen its position in the world, in particular with a view to bringing ukraine closer to the european union. given the newly elected president's promises to increase democratization and international stability, and his strong emphasis on ukraine's accession to europe, i am convinced that the good cooperation between ukraine and the european union should not only be continued but also developed. the representatives of all the countries of the union hope that ukraine will finally have a period of political stability and consensus on economic policy. i believe that the new ukrainian leader will also turn to the european union to get out of the deep crisis that has resulted in a horrendous economic decline and a 12% budget deficit. europe should consider a concrete proposal to include ukraine in european structures.
madam president! i'd like to make a statement thanking the minister for what he said, but these are unheated chops. three years ago, there was a special committee in parliament on guantanamo, and it worked on the council of europe case, and now it's coming back to it all the time. there are really more important things, and as the minister rightly said, it is the member states' duty to monitor human rights. one more thing, in the case of china, you said that there are different human rights and all of them must be respected. but the fundamental right of freedom in dictatorships is freedom, and i think the right to freedom is the first thing we should be concerned about.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. in today's global economy, most borders are open to the more efficient movement of people, capital and services. of course, it's to raise living standards. it is all right if most countries report positive trade and gdp growth. the problem starts when the economy slows down, the stock market indexes fall sharply, unemployment problems arise. the opening of borders, along with rising living standards, has led to an interdependence of economies. and that's the other side of the coin. you can see that in the current situation. for example, the economic slowdown in germany has a negative impact on the polish economy, and this is because germany is a key export partner for poland. fortunately, poland's gross domestic product is in positive territory, which is unusual in europe, but unemployment has been rising alarmingly for several months. this example clearly shows that governments not only need to think about how to solve economic problems in their own country, but also need to agree on how to work together to develop defense mechanisms to prevent similar situations in the future. i believe this crisis will be a test for all of us. i am thinking in particular of the countries of the european union. it cannot be that some countries try to apply state interventionism covertly, while others are prevented from doing so in the name of free competition. i am aware, of course, that individual governments can be, in a sense, hostages to their electorate, but if we are to build the european community for the good of all of us, we must clearly define the rules and follow them. we also need to tap into our strengths, which are advanced technologies and human capital. only then will the further deepening of cooperation between our countries be effective and we, as citizens of the european union, be able to think of the future in better terms and hope that our (...) (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president! one area where we should be looking for solutions to the crisis is in the agricultural trade. in recent years, under the dictates of the world trade organisation, we have introduced many self-limits in the union on the production and export of agricultural products. we have, among other things, carried out a major sugar reform which has eliminated one third of european sugar production, has eliminated many sugar factories, has stopped many beet farms, has increased unemployment, and has brought no social or economic benefits. it was a gift to the big corporations that moved their production out of europe and now we import sugar from them. i believe that in a crisis, we should strongly protect our economy and our producers. this is not about protectionism, but about a policy of equal opportunities, which our producers do not have at the moment. the european union has different high standards, for example in agriculture, animal welfare standards that should be promoted, but the same standards should also be required of those who export their products to the european union. if we ban cage-raising in the union, for example, we should not import eggs from countries that do. we should do the same in many other areas. the simple principle should be that we should demand the same from exporters as from our producers, otherwise we would be in an economic crisis . . . (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president! international trade, along with the financial sector, is the area of the world economy that has suffered the most as a result of the economic crisis. it is estimated that the global trade turnover fell by about 10% last year as a result of the crisis. in addition, trade is being affected by the protectionist policies adopted by many countries as a key tool in the fight against recession. the benefits of free trade on a global scale need not be explained to anyone. it is safe to say that the prosperity of free-market countries in the second half of the 20th century is largely the result of free trade, which has been developing very dynamically during this period. the decline in world trade, as well as the rise in unemployment, particularly in developing countries, and the consequent increase in poverty and social exclusion, can be halted by restoring the dynamics of trade on a level playing field. (the president cut the speaker off)
member of the commission. − madam president, if i were to try to give a balanced answer to all the questions that have been put and to all the matters that have been raised, i would need, i think, at least half an hour. i have only two or three minutes if i understand rightly. having said this, let me start with a general remark. i really do not believe that protectionism is a solution. whether you are a believer or not, looking back into history, it is thanks to international trade that our countries have become prosperous. secondly, europe has a transformative economy, which means that we have to import to be able to export. the idea that we could export without importing is completely false and contradictory to the facts. so i staunchly believe that we should have free trade agreements with major economic partners, that we should make a success of the doha round and that we should further liberalise international trade, but that does not mean that we should not take into account the fact that this international trade also has to be fair and that we are entitled to protect our interests. the commission is certainly going to do so when necessary and we will use the tdi mechanisms we have to have an impact on what we consider to be unfair distortions of trade. some very specific questions have also been asked, by mr jadot for example, on the meeting on 4 february at the wto and what the result of this was. well, the main message at that meeting was that the rules of the general agreement on trade in services are not an obstacle to the right of countries to ensure effective financial regulation. the reason is that gats has a very broad scope for financial prudential measures, so this financial regulation, be it at national or european level, is certainly not contradictory to the gats rules. that brings me to the origins of the crisis we are going through. hopefully the major part is behind us. i am firmly convinced that it has had a major impact on trade, but that the origin of this crisis lies with financial imbalances which resulted from completely wrong choices by financial institutions. the financial crisis did not originate in europe; it came to europe and to the rest of the world from the united states. i can agree that the food crisis of a couple of years ago, which was still not completely resolved and digested, let us say, has added to big imbalances, especially for the developing countries. you can say a lot about developing countries, about good governance and so on, but you certainly cannot lay the blame on the developing countries for being at the origin of the financial crisis. that is obvious, and they are very severely hit by that crisis, so we should take that into due consideration. there have also been some questions, the last time by mr caspary and one by mr jadot too, asking what are we going to do with the tec and with the strategic initiative for china? my personal opinion is that the only good response to the economic development of china – which we are not going to stop, by the way – the only good response is to become stronger ourselves. i think that is the only good response. when you look at this in terms of trade deficit, it is true that the trade deficit with china has gone up considerably, but when you look at the global trade deficit with asia, this did not go up that much. also, within asia, the other asian countries are facing very fierce competition from china. so what we should do is become stronger ourselves. i believe that achieving this transatlantic marketplace, for example, is one of the best answers we can give. we have a recent report, produced at the request of parliament, which shows that, if you were able to reduce by 50% the non-tariff barriers between europe and the united states, this would have an effect which would be much larger than the doha round. we should work on that, but, having said this, it is not easy at all. speaking of the doha round, i staunchly believe that we should try to close that round because it has a lot of important features, among them that the existing tariffs cannot go up any more, that we would be able to close them down. secondly, there is a strong developmental approach in the doha round, provided, of course, that we can keep it as it stands now, and that should be the goal of the european commission. there was also the question by david martin on the robin hood tax. first of all i must say that i like the name robin hood much better than tobin. but apart from that, i fear the robin hood tax is facing the same problems as the tobin tax, that you can only do it if it happens on a global scale. you should also bear in mind that doing this, even on a global scale, would imply a very costly implementing mechanism to put it into place. president barroso said about the tobin tax that we are ready to support it as long as everybody else does, and that, of course, is the sticking point in all this. a last word on – mr higgins, amongst others, asked a question – speculation and what came about from that, and also with respect to greece. this is not a debate on greece so i am not going to go into the details of it, but i think, sincerely speaking, that some fault also lies with greece itself. what you cannot have in a global economy, and what you cannot have in the european union either, is moral hazard. being a member state of the european union also implies some obligations. so member states who get into a difficult position – and certainly we are ready to support them and help them whenever possible – should also realise that they have to obey the rules and if they obey the rules then probably they will not get into the difficult situation they are in now.
in writing. if mr moreira's forecasts come true, the projected decline in world trade will be the largest since the second world war. it is clear that both eu and non-eu countries are taking active steps to increase competitiveness and overcome the effects of the crisis. a study by the centre of economic policy research found that since the first crisis-focused g20 meeting, all countries in the world have taken 425 legislative initiatives to combat the effects of the crisis. some countries resort to protectionist practices, while others seek to liberalize trade. since the economy is a system of interconnected vessels, does the european commission monitor legislative initiatives both within the european union and globally? does the european commission take them into account when taking anti-crisis measures? the mutual accumulation of protectionist and liberalising measures will lead to a situation where they will be mutually exclusive and will remain without impact on world trade.
mr. chairman, please! we are discussing a very important agreement today, which is to be a model for agreements with other countries in the far east, and that is why we need reflection and analysis. we can't operate under time pressure. i am in favour of free competition, i think its impact on political stability, on economic development, is undeniable, but it must be competition that is sustainable, which is that we compete on technologies or the cost of producing the products in question, and not on instruments such as the duty drawback, which is provided for in this agreement and which really only serves one party. we are facing an economic crisis, and we must be particularly sensitive to the situation in europe today, and we must be particularly responsible for the future of european industry. this is not just a question of the automotive industry, but also a question of the electronics industry, the textile industry. there are a number of industries that complain, also in poland, about this agreement. so here's what i think we should do. firstly, we must know the effects of this agreement well, and we must also work with the industries, not only those who think they will benefit from this agreement, but also those who have reservations about it. i expect the commission to make a very comprehensive analysis of the consequences of implementing this agreement. secondly, we have to look very closely at the safeguarding measures, how they should be structured, so that this agreement is really mutually beneficial, and not just unilaterally for south korea. thirdly, this agreement cannot be introduced provisionally until parliament is satisfied that it is actually beneficial for all the countries of the european union, that it does not create any undue advantage for korean industry.
mr. chairman, please! the free trade agreement with south korea seems to be a very good move. the free trade area agreement will lead to a significant increase in mutual trade. the elimination of korean duties approximately eur 1.6 billion and eu duties, amounting to approximately eur 1.1 billion, will result in substantial trade liberalisation in key industrial sectors and in services. these are mainly telecommunications, environmental protection, transport, finance and legal services. in addition, the fta will contribute to greater transparency in intellectual property protection and public procurement. the agreement will also ensure that korea respects eu quality certificates and standards. this agreement is particularly important in the current economic climate, as it will allow for faster development in the eu countries. yet, we feel . . . (the president cut the speaker off)
mr. chairman, please! we're talking about a problem that is actually growing into one of the most important problems in health care. i would like to mention the statistics, namely that there are about one million such unfortunate incidents every year in the european union. in the united states, it is estimated that there are about 380,000, but americans themselves say that number is underestimated. of course, we can emphasize that this is mainly for employees, but there is also another side of the coin: we are also talking about patients who are also exposed. then there's the problem, there's nothing to hide, often huge damages that hospitals have to pay. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. prevention is always much cheaper than treatment. the resolution, i believe, is absolutely worthy of support, it is a response to the demands made by the health community, especially as this problem is growing. the problem of workers' compensation, which is claimed by both workers and patients, is also growing. the financial aspect is also really important. my group, on whose behalf i am speaking, supports this motion for a resolution, believing that it is a genuine response to the challenges of the times and to the needs of consumers and health workers in the countries of the european union.
madam president! there is no doubt that the online gambling market is developing very dynamically in europe. over 40% of the world's gambling market is concentrated in europe, generating increasing profits. over the past four years, these revenues have almost doubled, from eur 6.5 billion to eur 11 billion. these statistics suggest that this phenomenon will continue to expand, both transnationally and across borders. the development of the market for internet services and networks and the changes in consumer attitudes require a response from the european union. the lack of regulation at community level in the field of online gambling is just one example of institutions not only failing to respond to social change, but on the contrary failing to respond to the needs of a changing european single market. the fast-growing gambling market, based on cross-border contacts and transactions, needs common and clear regulation to minimise the risks associated with fraud, money laundering, betting and addiction. transparent and clear rules should be the basis for the functioning of the common market and, above all, should protect european consumers from risks. consumers should be informed about the possible negative consequences of online gambling. young people, as we mentioned in the march resolution, are not ready to distinguish between luck, chance, the probability of winning. the risks that lead young people to become addicted to gambling need to be identified. increasingly, the commission is not keeping up with the extremely rapid development of the internet and various types of online activity, not only in this case. is one reason not that the commission is made up entirely of people who came of age in a time when this electronic world of online entrepreneurship was only the subject of futuristic novels? the commission must initiate work on a sound study that analyses the whole of the problem of gambling integrity and all the legal and social consequences that this entails. what is needed is a clear european practice and the setting of the highest standards that can distinguish between what is fair sporting competition in games and what is dirty gambling.
madam president! i also wanted to ask the commission a question in the context of the questions asked by my colleague, mr sławomir nitras, who cannot be present today because of the problems of transport in reaching strasbourg. first, i would like to ask the commission to comment on recent changes in the legislation of the member states in the context of the joint judgments of the european court of justice. secondly, does the commission envisage taking legal action to establish a common framework that could regulate online gambling transactions, with a view in particular to consumer protection in the fight against gambling addiction and organised crime, which is increasingly being integrated into a system that is not fully verified and controlled? in the commission's view, is it not therefore mandatory to have common eu rules at a time when member states are unable to restrict the gambling of their citizens despite, for example, bans? in this respect, the legal regulations do not seem to be adapted to the current situation of the developing market for internet services. my question therefore is: what action does the european commission intend to take in this area, perhaps to define a common legal framework, uniform for all member states?
member of the commission. - madam president, thank you for your words of welcome, and thank you all for your good wishes and encouragement. as you have understood - and i have said this before parliament - i am approaching this new task that president barroso has given me with great determination and determination. i'll even keep some utopia. i think there are creative utopias, particularly when it comes to the european project. the question that mr harbour has just put very clearly, and the interpellations by mr schwab, mrs gebhardt, mrs rühle and mr de jong, in particular, amounts to asking the following: is the european commission, at this moment, going to show voluntarism, initiative, other than through the infringement procedure alone? ladies and gentlemen, make no mistake about it! of course, i've been here for 48 hours, so give me and my associates time to work and present things to you in earnest. but it is a new approach that i'm here to talk about, and for a very important reason to me. many of you have said it - mrs gebhardt earlier, mr karas or, just now, mrs figueiredo - that these are not services like the others. that is why you have reason to expect the commission to adopt this new approach and, first of all, to carry out the consultation i have just proposed. at present, member states are free to choose their approach to this issue, but in accordance with the treaty. all the member states consider that gambling should be regulated with caution, given the risks it poses to society and which, moreover, mrs schaldemose's report - which i have read with great attention and interest - describes in an extremely explicit way. the council's work also highlighted the significant divergence of views, traditions and practices. what i have observed is that since they chose to remove gambling from the scope of the services directive in 2006, member states have not been consulted by the commission on a european initiative. so that's what's going to change. and i, for my part, will be following very closely, with my teams, the work of the council working party. i also know that many member states are calling for the scope of the proposed directive on consumer rights to be removed. i confirm that the commission does not exclude alternative solutions to infringement procedures. to find the right way, i will present a political document. i myself have used the word 'green paper', but to do that i need to check the content and the timing of the commission's work programme and discuss it with my colleagues. but we will present a policy paper to structure future discussions on this issue. this is the question, ladies and gentlemen, of a new and voluntary european coordination. there is of course the economic dimension, but i repeat that it is not the only one for me. there are other, serious issues which are also challenges of general interest. mr creutzmann, mr kirkhope, mr paška - i cannot name all those who spoke - but i have noted what the various coordinators of your groups have said on your behalf. one of these issues, one of these challenges, is cross-border crime. can we fight this crime without a european approach? i don't think that's going to happen. moreover, if we do not adopt a european approach to online gambling, we will not move towards a single market for e-commerce. and, as far as online gambling is concerned, at a minimum, there will need to be stronger cooperation between national gambling control authorities in europe. this is one of the subjects being studied by the council working party, and that is why the commission will be working with the member states on this and other subjects. i think that, beyond listening to the member states' opinions, which will be my own, i will continue, as i did this morning, to listen to what is said in the european parliament - even though i understand that there are different opinions on your benches which are not always consistent, because i know what the majority line of parliament is - i will listen to parliament and all the interested parties and associations in the context of this consultation for better european coordination. that is what i shall propose to my fellow commissioners in the coming days. i have mentioned the challenges and the challenges, madam president, and i will end. of course, in the social sphere, there is the question of addiction, which is extremely important and has been raised in your report, and there is the question of minors. strict limits must be set so that minors cannot gamble; all the member states are working on this issue, but in a dispersed manner. that is why i think that european coordination is needed on this point. the commission's policy paper should contain reliable figures and statistics. i shall therefore - as mrs stihler and mrs mcguinness have asked for - make sure that the commission document, beyond clear political guidelines - not just words, but proposals for decisions - contains first of all the most accurate diagnosis possible on all these issues. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's sporting activities are not disrupted. i say this as someone who has spent ten years of his life organizing it. we are just days away from the start of the olympic games in vancouver, and i have had the honor of being co-chairman of an olympic organizing committee. so i know that the organization of major sporting events costs money and that, somewhere, the funding circuits are linked to the games. this is why many member states which finance sport through these games also want to preserve national practices or legislation. the commission is currently carrying out a study on the financing of sport to better understand all these concerns. there will be a conference next week in brussels. ladies and gentlemen, i have listened to you very carefully and i thank you very much for the diversity and quality of your speeches. i'll keep listening to you. i will consult, beyond and with parliament, all the parties concerned. i therefore call for a meeting with you, no later than the autumn, on the basis of this political document, probably a green paper, subject to the agreement of the college, to achieve this greater coherence and this wonderful coordination at european level.
in writing. to begin with, i would like to draw your attention to the importance of online gambling in today's world. in the debate which is currently taking place, there are a number of issues which i believe should be resolved as soon as possible, preferably at community level. in its judgment, the european court of justice stated that the regulation of gambling law is a matter for the member states, which tighten their legislation in this area. not only in poland but also in other countries, there are voices that online gambling should be significantly restricted. i believe this is a step in the right direction, aimed at introducing clear and uniform rules, including the principles of a secure internet. on the other hand, online gambling often extends beyond the territory of a single country. this has serious consequences, not only legally, but financially. the question of which legislation to apply and to what extent remains unanswered. i would argue that the european union, whose primary task is to ensure the safety of its citizens, should introduce regulations at european level and ensure that they are effectively enforced.
mr. chairman, please! i voted with great pleasure for this resolution and i voted for each of the amendments. what were the reasons for my decision? first, despite the crisis, we have managed to focus on employment and social solidarity. second, we were able to focus on the differences, because these were common amendments, both socialists and democrats, chadians and liberals. finally, thirdly, i would like to send a clear signal to all the member states to follow the example of the european parliament in this resolution.
in writing. − marriages between people from different countries and cultures are increasing. the issue of disputes arising from the dissolution of international marriages has been a frequent subject of petitions to the european parliament for years. in 1987, the european parliament, aware of the seriousness of the problems facing children in the context of family disputes arising in so-called international relations, created the position of ombudsman for parental adoption. the signature of the convention on the maintenance of children and other family members is another step forward by the community in ensuring the proper protection of its citizens, and in particular children. the convention is intended to strengthen existing community rules on the recognition and enforcement of maintenance decisions and administrative cooperation between central authorities by creating a harmonised set of rules in the community for third countries that become parties to the convention. the entry into force of the convention will therefore ensure that maintenance creditors receive comprehensive assistance in the recovery of maintenance abroad through a central unit designated in their country of residence. the convention also addresses many practical issues that may affect the way claims are handled, such as language requirements, standard forms, the exchange of information on national law and the use of new information technologies to reduce costs and delays.
in writing. - according to many meps, the council made a mistake bypassing the european parliament in the current negotiations on the agreement with the us. it was not helped by the speech of my group's leader, joseph daul, who, after a thorough debate, asked the members to postpone the vote until a later date. commissioner malmström insisted that the new commission be given more time to study the matter and further negotiations, and that parliament be given more time to discuss it. i realize the enormous importance of protecting personal data, but we must also remember that the united states is our most important partner. we need to build on mutual trust, and the fight against terrorism and the safety of our citizens is our common task. i voted in line with our group's line for a postponement. unfortunately, we were voted down by 15. i know that 35 members of my group were absent from the vote. it's further proof that every vote counts in this case. then, following the line of the ppe, i voted for the agreement. the agreement was ultimately rejected by parliament by a vote of 378 to 196, with 31 abstentions. i'm not happy with the outcome, but i'm sure we'll be back to this very important issue soon.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. it is here in the european parliament that we should be talking today about what is happening in venezuela, where the dictator is breaking the law, fighting the opposition, closing independent television stations, especially businessmen, closing down all kinds of institutions. this is the place. this is a clear violation of human rights. but there are other things, because his governments are not only destabilizing the situation in their own country, but they are destabilizing the situation in the region. provocative actions against colombia, supporting farc guerrillas are facts that can really lead to a real conflict in the region. colombia is our strategic partner, let's support him and be with him at this moment when he is being so strongly attacked by chavez and insidiously or provocatively provoked to escalate the conflict in the region. it is our duty and if these attacks, these provocations intensify, it is the duty of the european union, the european parliament to stand by colombia, to be with colombia and to support colombia in the conflict with venezuela, which i fear may soon occur.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it's the same every time. in the name of a better tomorrow, of eliminating inequality, of freeing the people from the oppression of oppressors, tyrants, of eliminating poverty and misery, of using the wealth for the good of the nation, power is gained. this is the goal of every revolution, or even those who, using the mechanisms of democracy, reach their dream office, such as the presidency, only to throw away their freedom-democracy-social slogans the next day. from that moment on, they had only one motto: "once we have power, we will not give it up". dictators achieve this goal by different methods, but always by the same methods: censorship, secret police, jailing dissidents, breaking up and dividing the opposition, and completely subjugating the media. one of the founding acts, the symbol of this logic in the 20th century, was lenin's suppression of the kronstadt mutiny of the heroic sailors. this diagnosis is also valid for venezuela. freedom of the media is essential for democracy and respect for fundamental values. the european commission should take appropriate action.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to support the view put forward here by mrs de keyser on behalf of my group. there is no doubt that there can be no tolerance for the violation of media freedom. there are certainly some disturbing developments in venezuela. but i think you have to be very careful about making any such definite, categorical, final judgments. i think we should get an answer to the fundamental question: were all these stations that were closed down there closed down for political reasons, or did some of them really not meet the legal requirements? i think that answer, capturing what is so pure politics and what is a legal fact, would have a very big impact on the position of this chamber.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the announcement of the first election in 20 years in any country usually makes us feel optimistic. it's the hope for change and democratization. unfortunately, i think that few of us, and few of the burmese people, believe that the elections that are going to be held in this country later this year will be democratic, fair and will bring about real change. the burmese regime is a problem we've been dealing with for years. in our resolution we condemn the many violations of human rights and civil liberties that are taking place in burma every day. we still can't tell the people of burma how to stop the regime's ruthless actions. i believe that only joint action can bring results. common, which is who? who would take it? the neighboring countries? the countries that trade and have a lot of trade and indirectly finance this regime, namely russia and china? the european union, of course, the united states and the un in this group of partners can bring about change.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. indeed, the international community's appeals to respect human rights in burma have so far produced no results. thousands of political prisoners remain in burmese prisons, and the military continues to commit murders, torture and arrests. myanmar's opposition leader and nobel peace prize winner aung san suu kyi has been under house arrest for the past dozen years, and has been sentenced to three years in prison. this is how the junta wants to stop her from running in the upcoming elections. burma is also one of the most notorious countries in the world for the persecution of religious minorities, including christians. the junta has decided to wipe out the karen christians from their lands. last year, the karens fled repression and took refuge in thailand. today, despite international protests, the thai government is preparing to forcibly relocate and mass deport more than 4,000 karen, who will be subjected to further humiliation. it is our duty to speak out here in the european parliament for the rights of religious minorities, including christians, all over the world.
mr. chairman, please! if burma decides to hold parliamentary elections for the first time in 20 years, it could be a step forward in the democratization process, if the elections scheduled for this autumn are fair. first, universal, where every adult citizen will be able to vote or stand for election, including the imprisoned nobel laureate aung san suu kyi and 2,000 other opposition activists in prison for political reasons. secondly, the elections must also include the several million burmese who fled to thailand, bangladesh and india for fear of torture and death. they should be allowed to vote at their original place of residence. third, members of the burmese military should not be guaranteed 25% of the seats in parliament, because this undermines the basic democratic mechanism and distorts the outcome of the election from the outset. finally, the burmese government must respect the rule of secrecy of the elections by allowing international observers and burmese media to monitor the elections. should the government of burma ignore these demands, i consider it necessary to maintain the restrictive measures against the regime in accordance with paragraph 16 of this resolution.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 11 february 2010.
let me welcome the president of the european council, mr herman van rompuy, to the plenary session of the european parliament for the first time. we welcome you and congratulate you once again, mr president. (applause)i would also like to welcome president barroso. over the last five years it has been quite usual for you to sit here; it is not the first time for you at all!
i would now like to extend a warm welcome to the belarusian guests present: ms. andzelika borys, president of the union of poles in belarus, and mr. aleksander milinkiewicz, winner of our 2006 sakharov prize, leader of the democratic opposition in belarus. (laughter) belarus has unfortunately made headlines again for its persecution of ngos. the european parliament defends and will defend the universal values that are dear to us and in which we believe. we will condemn authoritarian regimes that use force and persecute democratic organizations just because they do not share their views.
i hereby inform you that written declaration no 54/2009 on the transport of horses for slaughter in the european union, by elizabeth lynne, sidonia jędrzejewska and karel schlyter, was signed today, 24 february 2010, by a majority of members of parliament. it will therefore be circulated to the addressees and published, together with the names of the signatories, in the texts adopted at the meeting of 25 february 2010, in accordance with rule 124 (4). thank you to the authors for making this statement!
i would like to inform you that i did not have the possibility of signing this declaration, and i am ready to do it immediately.
the final draft agenda, drawn up in accordance with rule 137 of the rules of procedure, was distributed by the conference of presidents at its meeting on wednesday, 10 february 2010. in agreement with the political groups, i would like to propose the following amendments: thursday: with regard to the meeting on thursday, the socialist and democrats group in the european parliament has requested that the vote on the report by ms lehne on the annual accounts of certain types of companies with regard to micro-entities be postponed.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the council and commission statement: eu 2020 - action following the informal european council of 11 february 2010.
van rompuy, as this is your first speech in the plenary session of the european parliament, we agreed that it could be slightly longer. president van rompuy would like to present to this house his points of view on other issues, on institutional issues, at the beginning of his term of office. perhaps 15 to 20 minutes will be enough for you?
as you said, mr chair, you would not like to be rude. i prefer to go ahead. mr chair, will you take a blue-card question?
as i said to mr farage two months ago, and as i say again today, this kind of speech, which attacks individuals personally, is unacceptable in the european parliament. i brought this to mr farage's attention when i was talking to him about it. i wanted to say, mr president, that this is the way i am acting and the way i am proceeding.
mr farage, i am sorry but it was not a personal statement. we must keep order and all the regulations of our parliament.
in writing. europe 2020 must not repeat the failures of its predecessor, the lisbon strategy. the new strategy is to a large extent shaped by the economic crisis, the effects of which will have to be faced. at the same time, we must make up for our negligence. how did the eu's strict rules under the stability and growth pact lead to a deficit of 7% and debt of 80% of gdp? who's responsible for this? the most desirable prospect for the union is a return to a path of rapid growth, and this is what the strategy should be primarily about. the current strategy does not show how to achieve this. how to reconcile europe's social achievements with demographic problems, poor healthcare efficiency, inefficient pension systems and working hours. finally, what about the establishment of a system of supervision and monitoring of banks and other financial institutions? or how do we want to increase productivity? we need a new approach to the challenges of today.
in writing. the new euro 2020 strategy will prioritise a more intelligent and green, knowledge-based market economy. to achieve this, we should focus primarily on deepening the common market and increasing the free movement of services. the european community should promote entrepreneurship and facilitate the registration of economic activities by removing legal and economic barriers. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. the european union is still behind the united states in entrepreneurial mindsets, according to eurobarometer surveys, but at the same time more than half of young eu citizens would like to become entrepreneurs in the next 5 years. i also believe it is important to focus on creating knowledge-based growth and creating a competitive, cohesive and more environmentally friendly economy. so we need to pay attention and increase funding to develop and prepare young people to meet long-term challenges. the eu should implement the digital agenda for europe as soon as possible to contribute to the creation of a genuine single market for online commerce, so that consumers can benefit from competitive pricing in other member states and smes can operate in the european market without obstacles.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the goldstone report is extremely unbalanced and unfair. it comes from the united nations commission on human rights, which includes countries such as iran, nicaragua, somalia, and libya. what rights do these countries, whose human rights record has been reduced to zero, have to judge the only democracy in the middle east, israel? the report comes from a very suspicious source who is obsessively hostile to the state of israel. of the 25 human rights resolutions that this committee has adopted, 20 are about israel. none of them are about the countries that sit on this committee, which, i stress, from women's rights to voting rights, have a dismal record in respect of human rights. i want to emphasize that this report is completely unbalanced. he is trying to exonerate hamas' terrorist activities. what we don't have in this report is the basic fact that for eight years before israel took action in the gaza strip in self-defense, which it had the right to do, thousands of rockets were fired at innocent israeli citizens. every country has the right to defend itself against terrorists. that's israel's right, too. it should also be said that 150 criminal cases explaining the conduct of individual israeli soldiers are being held in israel. in israel, we have a free parliament, we have a free press, which often criticizes its own government and its own armed forces. none of these aspects are unfortunately on the side of the terrorists. that is why i believe that this unbalanced and unfair report, which attacks in a shameless way, in my opinion, our main ally in the middle east, should not be taken seriously.
in writing. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the goldstone report is presented to the international community as an objective document of the gaza operation in the winter of 2009. however, according to various sources, it has not been prepared in such a way that we can invoke it with a clear conscience. i would like to mention a few of the elements that ambassador dore gold presented at brandeis university during the debate with richard goldston, and which were emphasized by the israeli foreign ministry. allegedly, the members of the mission had already expressed their views on the conflict before the mission began, when they were accompanied by hamas representatives in the gaza strip, and the witnesses were questioned in their presence. judge goldstone did not show sufficient diligence in examining the evidence. it also seems unfair that the words of the israeli authorities quoted in the report are considered unreliable, while the positions of the gaza authorities, such as hamas, are not considered questionable by the members of the mission. in the light of the above objections to the goldstone report, i call on the commission and the european parliament to provide the european public with the conditions to read the arguments of both sides on the situation in the gaza strip. the european union is committed to the best possible economic relations with israel. so it's all the more important that we can build our relationships on mutual trust. relying solely on judge goldstone's report is not going to help.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the council and the european commission on the situation of civil society in belarus.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. no decision is a decision. the european parliament's resolution on belarus adopted in march will be needed, but it was even more needed now. the persecution of poles there is not just a polish issue, as my predecessors have emphasised, but it is a manifestation of the attitude towards european standards, including those concerning national minorities. europe should take belarus out of russia's sphere of influence, but at the same time demand respect for the values that are at the heart of the union, such as civil liberties, freedom of the media, the rights of national and religious minorities, the right to associate. if lukashenko does not understand the language of european values, he will surely understand the language of sanctions, but not sanctions that hit the belarusian society - we do not want such - but make life difficult for politicians and officials responsible for discriminating against poles and the democratic opposition. there is an asymmetry in the relationship between the union and belarus: the union opens the door to minsk without receiving anything in return. this one-way street leads nowhere. it is time for political sanctions, even temporary ones, such as the absence of representatives of the belarusian parliament from the euronest parliamentary assembly and the reinstatement of the blacklist of officials of the regime in minsk who will not be allowed into the territory of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! i thank the council and the commission for their swift response. in our european standards, this is a very good example indeed. first of all, let me say that there is no ethnic conflict here. this is not a polish-belarusian or a belarusian-polish conflict. it is simply a violation of human rights, the principles of freedom of expression, and finally the rights of national minorities. it could have affected any other minority. why did it affect the polish minority? because it is numerous, organised and democratic, and because it has milinkiewicz, the winner of the european parliament prize, amongst other things. this is where we started. the question is, what should we do? i've had the opportunity to speak with mr milinkiewicz and mrs borys twice. they declared: we are loyal citizens of belarus and we don't want any economic sanctions, we don't want political sanctions, we want closer relations between belarus and the european union, we want balance. cooperation conditional on progress in the democratization process of the country. we should do the same. hence the need to open up to belarusian citizens, as well as visa facilitation. are visa fees and visa policies necessary at all? it's good that our fact-finding mission is leaving for belarus tomorrow. let's wait for her report and then decide what to do.
mr. chairman, please! with the lisbon treaty, we were promised, all of us, a much more effective european union foreign policy. it soon became clear that our role in haiti had been delayed and invisible, the eu-us summit had failed, and the establishment of the diplomatic corps was being conducted in an atmosphere of conflict between the institutions of the union, to the detriment of the quality of the corps. today we had another chance to show that the union can work. unfortunately, the council has postponed its decisions and parliament is unable to react to the obvious human rights situation in a country whose role in eu policy was to grow. i'm not going to let you down. the open door policy and the student exchange with belarus has failed, it just failed today, so please don't repeat the same thing about the student exchange for five years. this is a failure that has affected the credibility of the union. the european union is a weak and indecisive player today. washington knows this, moscow knows this, and with the vague response to the belarusian crisis, so does minsk.
mr. chairman, please! as head of the european parliament's delegation for relations with belarus, i have frequent contacts not only with representatives of the opposition, civil society and ngos, but also with representatives of the official authorities. i hear from them the argument that belarus has the right to its own pace of achieving certain standards in the world. theoretically, the european union cannot put pressure on this responsible, sovereign country, because the responsibility for the internal situation in this country lies with its authorities. in theory, one could agree with such a line of action, but for the fact that in these international standards, which belarus itself accepted when joining the osce, human rights are not an internal matter. as happened recently in a small town in central belarus, in ivinci, when the authorities used, and i would say abused, police force against a group of elderly people, pensioners led by mrs. tereza sobol, who had raised substantial funds on her own initiative, mainly abroad. it used the funds to rebuild a dilapidated building in the center of the city. subsequently, she turned this building into a center full of cultural and social life of the polish minority. these people are being raided by the police before the court has ruled on the legal status of the building. then the witnesses called by these activists are not allowed to appear in court to testify in order to have a fair trial. this is not a pace that meets international standards. this is a departure from the international standards to which belarus has committed itself and which it has promised to respect in the framework of its dialogue with the european union. so i'd like to say one thing. we can talk about sanctions, the time will come, but first of all the economic aid that is being considered should be conditional on the abandonment of such practices and real, real liberalization and democratization in this country.
mr. chairman, please! the liberal mp from the socialist group began by praising the eu authorities for their reaction. we are not adopting a resolution today through your group, so perhaps you are pleased, but if the commissioner, who is really in charge of development on a daily basis, informs us today of what has been proposed to us, i do not know who will be pleased, perhaps you, perhaps your group, but certainly not the belarusians and certainly not those who wish the belarusians well. if even the commissioner, who has five minutes at his disposal, takes two minutes of that precious time, it means that not only is what you said unsatisfactory, but you didn't take the opportunity to speak out loud. that is why i call on you, and on the european union authorities, to use the tools to counter human rights violations. it's not just about violating the rights of citizens of polish descent, it's about violating human rights.
mr. chairman, please! i listened very carefully to what you said, as the representative of the european commission, and i would like to say that i would expect a little more vigorous behaviour. i suspect your statement would have been the same two weeks ago, before these events. that is certainly not acceptable. but i agree with one thing, i just expect to see some tangible effects, show some of the other accents. it is true that today those who advocate sanctions sometimes forget that these sanctions already existed and that this policy was exactly the same despite the sanctions. we cannot say today that we will support civil society in belarus, because someone who was there knows that civil society in belarus may actually be sprouting. i would expect from the european institutions that the duties that the state has towards its citizens, which are not fulfilled in belarus, are not fulfilled, we will fulfil them for the state, i would expect that we will help create independent media there, that we will support the first television that exists, which is free television and which is financed so far by perhaps two european governments. i expect that we will be able to create real opportunities on a mass scale for belarusian citizens to study in europe, because they will create civil society.
mr. chairman, please! during the last term of office, the european parliament adopted several resolutions on belarus, in which, in a well-chosen diagnosis of the situation, it called on the lukashenka regime to stop its human rights violations. the european union has shown goodwill by partially lifting visa sanctions against belarusian officials. we are surprised and concerned by the recent aggressive policy of the belarusian authorities towards national minorities, especially the polish minority, which must be seen in the context of preparations for next year's elections in that country. the illegal seizure of the property of the polish minority and the blatant repression of opposition leaders, who have been awarded the sakharov prize by the european parliament, are a clear provocation against our institution. our house should not just respond in the traditional way with a resolution, but take concrete action to discipline the belarusian authorities and appeal to catherine ashton to appoint a special representative to monitor human rights violations in the country, based on article 33 of the lisbon treaty.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. it is very good that we are talking about belarus here in the european parliament, but talking is not enough. today, the european union, and i would expect the european commission to do so, should prepare a strategic plan to support the democratic opposition, to support civil society, to support ngos, to support the free media as well. today we are talking about issues like democracy, human rights, which are natural to us, and on which europe is based. belarusian society is made up of people who, for the most part, can only dream of such values. we therefore expect the european commission to present a strategic plan to help civil society.
acting president of the council. - mr president, after these speeches i cannot but agree with the complaints made by the honourable members about the human rights violations in belarus, which in this particular case affect a minority such as the polish minority there and which therefore affect the european union, not only because it is a minority of a number of people who have a national reference in a country of the european union, but also because we are faced with a serious violation of the human rights of minorities and therefore our attitude would be exactly the same, whether it is a polish minority or another minority. we are dealing with a violation of human rights, we have said that they are universal rights, and therefore we are not dealing with a question that is strictly a matter of a reaction from the european union because it is the polish minority in this case. we would have to say exactly the same thing if it were another minority, because all human rights are indivisible and universal. i mean that the fact that mistakes are made, human rights violations by a regime, should not lead to punishing its citizens. for that reason, we believe it is important that belarus should be in the eastern partnership. what commissioner georgieva has said about people-to-people contacts is important. all this is important, as is, of course, the need, as many of your honourable members have said, for a constant, clear and direct communication to the belarusian authorities of our attitude, which is absolutely critical and condemning of human rights violations. that is what the high representative, mrs ashton, is prepared to do, by the way, by following this matter closely with president buzek, who is currently chairing us, and by taking advantage of mrs ashton's attendance at the inauguration of yanukovych in kiev, which lukashenko is supposed to attend, to address this issue, which will certainly be dealt with, will continue to be dealt with in the future by the foreign affairs council of the european union, because it is a matter of relevant importance. that is why i am very glad that it has been possible to discuss it immediately in this house today.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me first thank members for the discussion in this house, and make four points. my first point is that respect for human rights is categorically a cornerstone of external relations of the european union, and it is the foundation on which engagement with any country, including belarus, is built. second, the deterioration of democracy in belarus had a very unfortunate low point recently, but it did not start last week. it started around mid-2009, and this led the eu council of ministers in november 2009 to request that the commission formulate a proposal for the so-called ‘joint interim plan’ in support of reforms to be implemented with belarus. the commission’s services have prepared a draft of this joint interim plan for reforms. it is now with the high representative, and the high representative certainly would gladly take into account the recommendations coming out of the fact-finding mission that parliament is starting tomorrow. my third point is that it would be with this last event in mind, when the high representative turns back to the services with feedback on this joint interim plan, that it would be finalised. let me make my fourth and last point. in the second half of the 1980s, perestroika started in the former soviet union, and it led to, for the first time in the lives of many – mine included – an opportunity to compete for student and professional exchanges. in my case, it led me to the london school of economics. it dramatically changed my professional life. it certainly made me much more helpful, more useful, to my own country. it is with this strong belief that it is by opening up the democratic channels for countries under oppressive regimes that we as europeans can help these countries that i made – and again would repeat – my point on the importance and usefulness of people-to-people contacts, the usefulness of support for businesses, the usefulness – despite the great difficulties, the very unfortunate disrespect for minorities, which we condemn – of remaining engaged in a way that would lift up the chances of the belarusian people to take the road to a free world and to be connected with the union, and i would repeat the call for us to remain engaged in that way.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place at the next part-session. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. the repression that has recently affected activists of the polish minority in belarus is part of a much wider problem. the belarusian authorities do not tolerate any independence. they don't want and don't accept the idea of civil society. any manifestation of independence is treated as political opposition activity. so it's not an internal conflict within an ngo, nor is it a polish-belarusian conflict. this is rather a manifestation of the consistent attitude of the belarusian authorities, who are trying to prevent liberalization and democratization. it is sad that there are political forces in poland who are trying to exploit the situation for their own particular goals and use the events in belarus to undermine the policies of the polish government. politicians who do this don't realize that they are doing exactly what lukashenko expects. it is in his interest to polarize and conflict polish and european public opinion. the dismantling of polish and european policy towards belarus is an abuse and undermines the effectiveness of joint efforts to promote freedom and democracy in that country. thank you very much. thank you.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on: oral question to the council: fifteen years after beijing un platform for action on gender equality, by eva-britt svensson, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and equality (o-0006/2010 b7-0007/2010) and oral question to the commission: fifteen years after beijing un platform for action on gender equality, by eva-britt svensson, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and equality (o-0007/2010 b7-0008/2010).
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! we are now in the 15th anniversary of the famous world conference on women's equal rights, organized by the united nations in beijing. during this time, the 189 signatory states of the un platform for action on gender equality have managed to make some progress in all 12 areas identified in the document. however, most of the diagnoses of that time are still valid, especially those related to domestic violence against women or the participation of women in armed conflicts. these issues do not need to be brought up in the european parliament we discuss them in debates on human rights violations at almost every plenary session. i would therefore like to commend the un initiative which, every five years, carries out a detailed review of the platform for action in several hundred countries (the last one was in 2005) and identifies the most pressing issues. five years ago, at a conference in new york, the signatory states drew attention to the high rate of rape against women, the increase in hiv/aids infections among women and the discrimination against women in employment. unfortunately, the same observations could be made today. a very concrete action plan is needed, with the real support of all the signatories of the platform and the involvement of the european union, so that the next review of the programme, five years from now, will already show clear progress.
in writing. one of the twelve strategic areas defined in the beijing platform for action is women's rights as an inalienable, integral and indivisible part of universal human rights. the aim is to fully implement international instruments for the protection of these rights, including the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. one form of discrimination is the violation of women's reproductive rights. the report on the observance of reproductive rights in poland in 2007 and the recommendations of the un human rights committee based on it clearly show that polish women have difficulty in accessing reimbursed contraception, medical care during pregnancy, prenatal examinations and even painless childbirth. they are virtually denied legal abortion even in cases where the law allows it. as a result, between 200 and 400 legal abortions are performed in poland each year, compared with 100,000 illegal ones. i propose that the legal abortion rate, calculated as the number of legal abortions per 1000 live births in a given year, be adopted as a measure of women's equality in the eu member states. in countries where women have the right to choose whether to have an abortion, the rate hovers around 200. in poland, it is 1. it is an objective measure of the violation of women's reproductive rights in poland. i call for more effective eu-un cooperation in monitoring women's rights and for the introduction of metrics to objectify violations of women's rights.
in writing. i fully share ms svensson's commitment to gender equality and agree that the issues she raises have a significant impact on the process of gender equality. at the same time, i would like to point out that many women consciously and voluntarily choose to work at home for the sake of their family. they may be forced to abandon their careers for unforeseen reasons (for example, because they have to take care of a sick or disabled child). the main problem in this case is the lack of adequate pension provision for these women. in many countries, such facilities are lacking or are unable to provide women with a decent living. it is therefore necessary to include the issue of benefits for women in household and childcare in the gender equality debate.
mr. chairman, please! i express my deep concern about the rapidly deteriorating situation of my compatriots in lithuania. lithuania is a member of the european union. nevertheless, the fundamental rights of the polish national minority are being violated in this country. almost 300,000 poles in lithuania, in areas where they make up 60-80% of the population, do not have the right to use their native language as an auxiliary in public. there's a court order to remove bilingual street signs. the bailiffs are on duty. polish names are lithuanian. they're discriminated against when the earth turns. the right of polish children to receive education in polish is curtailed. their parents' voting rights are restricted. the future of the union is at stake. do we still want to live in a europe of illusory values or of real values? it is up to us, among other things, to decide in which direction the union will go, whether we will turn a blind eye to the blatant discrimination against minorities or whether we will actually build a safe europe in the spirit of respect for human rights.
mr. chairman, please! unfortunately, once again i have to speak about the situation of the polish minority in the european union member state of lithuania. it would seem that if a country is part of the european union, it should follow all european standards. but vilnius does not. there is still no permission in this country for bilingual signs in places inhabited by the polish not so much minority as the majority. there are significant problems with the functioning of polish education. as a result of the lithuanian education authorities' actions, about 100 polish school classes will be deprived. recently, significant restrictions have been introduced for artistic groups promoting polish culture. it's a strange asymmetry, because lithuanians in poland are guaranteed all rights and a lot of funding from the polish state budget. it's time for a basic human revenge. it is time for international organisations, including our european parliament, to address the issue of discrimination against poles in lithuania.
although many economists and politicians have declared the end of the crisis in europe, we are still dealing with its negative consequences. monthly data on the unemployment rate in the union are becoming more and more depressing. more than 23 million people are now unemployed in europe. this means that the crisis has destroyed the efforts to promote employment that have been made for many years. the ever-increasing number of young people who are unemployed is a particularly damaging phenomenon. one in five young europeans is now unemployed. this situation is likely to lead to particularly harmful social consequences, such as an increase in crime, alcoholism, drug abuse and family pathologies. as regards possible ways of getting out of the recession quickly, i believe we should use our greatest asset, the community's internal market. more coordination at european level is needed to take full advantage of the potential of the common economic area. the rules of operation must be further simplified and a genuine economic union developed.
mr president, i would like to express the sorrow felt by all members of the committee on regional development at the terrible loss of life in madeira and our intention to do all we can to assist madeira in its hour of need. of course, the national and regional authorities are already doing their utmost to relieve the difficulties encountered by the people and especially those who have been left homeless and we urgently await their request for european assistance through the european solidarity fund. i am sure it will be treated with the utmost expediency by all concerned. we ask the european commission to mobilise all its resources and review with the portuguese authorities how the ongoing european programmes can be adjusted to assist the region. let me emphasise that the existing solidarity fund continues to have well-known limitations. back in april 2005 the commission adopted a proposal for the revision of the regulation, which was then adopted by the parliament at first reading in may 2006. despite the undeniable usefulness of a more flexible solidarity fund, despite the necessity of extending its ambit of operations to cover unforeseen man-made disasters and criminal acts as well as natural ones, the council has been unable to reach a common position on the review of the fund since may 2006. in the light of the terrible events in madeira we see more clearly than ever that we need a solidarity fund which could effectively meet the challenges and allow the union to deliver prompt and effective assistance when member states suffer a disaster. i would therefore call on the spanish presidency to relaunch the process of amending the solidarity fund, proving in this way that the spirit of real european solidarity remains at the heart of the european project.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a position on the proposal for a directive. i thank you for the opportunity to speak to you here in parliament about the flood disaster in madeira. they have made an impressive appeal to the commission to help madeira in its present situation and to show european solidarity. the commission is prepared to do so. how exactly this can be done will have to be worked out in the next few days and weeks in close cooperation with the portuguese authorities. we must and will respect the rules of the fund. where they offer a margin of manoeuvre, the commission will use it in favour of madeira. first, the damage must be assessed, then a request for assistance must be prepared and submitted. this is the order. the regional policy dg and my colleague, commissioner hahn, will be providing advice and support. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fund's rules and regulations are properly applied. the commission made a proposal for this over four years ago, parliament gave it its support, and it is still before the council. but i would say, in a restrictive way, that the proposals we made then would not offer a better way of helping in this particular case. it is true that prevention must remain a priority of our policy. cohesion policy is the right instrument for this. i would like to reassure you that the commission will do everything in its power to help the people and the administration in madeira to cope with this terrible event.
in writing. please accept my condolences to the families of those who have died as a result of floods and landslides caused by heavy rains in madeira. nature is not to be tricked, and since we cannot prevent natural disasters, we should do everything we can to prevent their devastating effects and to help their victims. in the face of natural disasters and other crises, the european union should be able to respond quickly and efficiently, using appropriate resources. in this context, as i have already stressed in the amendments submitted to the draft report by mr danjean on the implementation of the european security strategy and the common security and defence policy, it is necessary to ensure the smooth functioning of the instruments for responding to crisis situations through well-organised command centres, respectively for pillar i and pillar ii actions. good planning and efficient management of these centres will enable successful activities to be undertaken in the member states of the european union and other countries in need. in particular, there is a need for better coordination of rescue, police, military and firefighting forces within the eu. the use of specialised trained units - such as the un-certified polish fire brigade's search and rescue (srs) team - should also be considered.
on behalf of the s&d group. european integration, security and energy solidarity require joint investment activities by all member states in energy infrastructure in the broad sense, and in particular in transmission infrastructure. optimal investment solutions in this area require objective information both on the state of infrastructure in the individual national systems and on the information necessary to carry out a central union study of their future integration. the point is that the competitiveness element in the common market for production and services, which is shaped mainly by the cost of energy in the member state concerned, and commercial secrecy should not obscure or distort integration processes. let's keep only the necessary military infrastructure secret. the main concern is that decisions on investments such as the construction of the northern and southern pipelines are not purely selfish actions in the interests of some member states of the european union. let us create a comprehensive, forward-looking energy infrastructure project for the whole union based on the principles of cooperation, trust and solidarity. unfortunately, the current regulation will only serve this purpose to a certain extent, and i believe that it should, for example, take account of the priorities of the member states.
energy and the energy grid are one of the key issues for the future of the european economy. the importance of energy security is repeated in various documents, debates and meetings. however, in order to ensure that the words and declarations are followed by concrete solutions and measurable results, it is essential to ensure that the planned investments are adequately financed. according to a report by exxon mobil, one of the world's largest oil companies, global energy demand will show a clear upward trend of 1.2% per year, increasing by about 35% by 2030. demand for gas, which will be the second most important energy source, will increase by 1.8% per year. the world now uses just over 3 trillion cubic meters . by 2030 it will need about 4.3 trillion cubic meters . the consequence of the old continent's growing demand for gas will be an increased dependence on imports of this raw material, from 45% in 2005 to 70% in 2030. in view of the above thresholds, the european community's financial support for the energy structure should be approached strategically. in the current economic and financial situation, it is particularly difficult to find investors for many projects. only with the appropriate support of the european union will it be possible to continue their implementation. priority should be given to those projects that focus on cross-border needs and contribute to the development of new technologies that are essential for europe's future energy needs. these projects will help to close the gaps in interconnections in the european union and will allow for the continued optimal exploitation of internal energy sources in the european union.
ensuring that energy supplies are uninterrupted and stable has become a priority for the governments of the member states of the union and for the community as a whole. the european commission has a particular responsibility in this respect and should, through its activities, seek to secure the energy supply of the community by developing and monitoring the proper functioning of the european energy market. one of the mechanisms of the commission's multi-dimensional energy policy should be to support efficient investment projects in the energy sector. the commission should carry out regular analyses and studies, based on information on the energy infrastructure investment projects of individual countries, with an emphasis not only on the projects currently in operation, but also on the analysis of investment projects aiming at greater diversification of both the sources of raw materials and the means of their transport and production. the commission has a coherent analysis of all the countries of the union, it will be able to choose the strategy that is most beneficial for the european energy market.
in writing. i would like to thank the rapporteur very much for producing such a balanced report. the consolidated actions of the member states and the european commission contained in it will ensure an integrated and improved energy security system for the union, while achieving better efficiency and energy savings. within the framework of the community energy policy, the commission should, together with the member states, identify the investments required to meet the eu's strategic needs for the demand and supply of natural gas and electricity. this regulation establishes a common framework under which data and information on investment projects in energy infrastructure in the oil, natural gas, electricity, biofuels and low-emission investment projects for urban heating and cooling sectors are reported to the european commission. the coal is undoubtedly an essential element for the stability of the energy system, which cannot be replaced by renewable energy sources, since they will not meet the needs of the ever-expanding and developing economic sectors of the new member states. in pointing out the advantages of coal as an energy source, it should be noted that, on the basis of the technologies developed, we can increase the reduction of pollution gradually by adapting to the set co2 emission limits.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by expressing my sincere thanks to mrs patrão neves for her contribution to the preparation of this report. it takes a lot of determination and a lot of compromise to create a coherent document like this. however, this report is only a basis for the future common fisheries policy, which requires a major restructuring and fundamental changes to reconcile environmental concerns with the preservation of the historical heritage of fisheries. the essence of this policy must be regionalization, which will be based on the conditions prevailing in the individual waters. this will allow for a proper assessment based on the views of the fishing and scientific communities, and the compromise reached will ensure that fisheries operate equally and fairly. the new common fisheries policy must provide a boost to the sector in a europe in crisis, but attention must be paid to the predatory industrial fishing, particularly in the baltic sea, where healthy and valuable fish are replaced by flour fed to poultry and cattle, and toxic panga from the far east is put on europeans' tables. this is a blow to europe's coastal fisheries, which are in harmony with nature and which must be given special attention. it is also necessary to create a rational and fair fishing system to replace the rigged quota system. it is about giving equal opportunities to all fishermen in all eu countries. the ecr group supports this report in the hope that it will change the current system.
mr. chairman, please! the fisheries sector is of fundamental importance as a source of livelihood in european coastal zones and as a source of food for europe's citizens. unfortunately, the common fisheries policy in its current form fails to meet the challenges posed by a number of problems, such as uncontrolled exploitation of fisheries and overcapacity. a fundamental transformation of maritime policy is needed. we are at the beginning of a process which should lead to a genuine change in the current ineffective european fisheries policy. i thank the member for patrão neves for the comprehensive report which determines the necessary actions on which this reform should be based. first, to reduce the excessive fishing potential. this is a fundamental problem which must be addressed by the introduction of appropriate market mechanisms and their control. i'm talking about the individual quota system, or the itq. i believe that it is an economic remedy to adapt the size of the fleet to the available resources and to ensure the profitability of the fishing sector. secondly, decentralisation and the wider involvement of stakeholders and advisory bodies in this process. the aim is to increase the involvement of fishermen, to develop specific rules, which will increase trust between fishing communities and fisheries management authorities. the green paper is a good assessment of the current fisheries policy, pointing out its deep flaws. the report by mrs patrão neves analyses the possibilities for resolving the disadvantageous situation of european fisheries. however, these proposals require further discussion. otherwise, our community risks voting on another version of the reform which will not solve the problems facing european fisheries.
the common fisheries policy must reconcile ecological and environmental objectives with the size of the fisheries, as well as with employment and the living standards of fishermen's families. the fishing capacity should be adapted to the state of the stocks, the stocks being determined in accordance with the latest scientific and expert knowledge. the achievement of sustainable fishing quotas must be combined with a process of support for the fishing environment in various areas, i.e. investment, modernisation, social, and this in a multiannual perspective. the common fisheries policy should take into account the specificities of the different regions and seas. the powers of the regional advisory committees should therefore be increased and they should work closely with the fisheries administrations of the member states and the european commission. finally, it is necessary to strengthen the organisation of fishermen and to improve the chain from catching to sale, ensuring the quality and high standards of fishery products.
in writing. the green paper on the common fisheries policy leaves no stone unturned for the european commission and the member states. it is clear that not all projects and reforms within the union are successful. we should therefore draw the appropriate conclusions both at the institutional and practical level. one of the fundamental flaws of the 2002 reform was excessive centralisation. the diversity and specificity of the regions of the european union should impose a requirement for regionalisation. it is not possible for the european commission to treat the baltic sea as if it were the same as the atlantic or the mediterranean. the regionalisation of fisheries policy should be accompanied by concrete solutions to social and economic issues. from the point of view of the population living in areas dependent on fisheries, the most important direction of action is economic and social diversification and restructuring, including the creation of new jobs outside the fisheries sector. the lack of opportunities to increase catches and employment in the baltic fisheries sector should give rise to the above actions. it is a solution that fits the expectations and needs of society. research shows that two thirds of europe's fish stocks are at risk, including very popular species such as sole, plaice and cod. wwf analyses are clear: if no concrete changes are made, the mediterranean tuna breeding stock and many other species will disappear by 2012.
mr. chairman, please! first of all, my condolences to the families of the victims. i'd like to say something that i think is very important and that hasn't been said here. you're making a fair case. i have my own very strong opinions on this matter. i think a liberalized market is much better than a market dominated by state-owned companies, but i want to say something important in the context of this discussion. it is not only a question of whether a firm is public or private, but also whether the market is a free market or a restricted, regulated market, often in many member states effectively a monopoly of a single public company. often the systems we're talking about, of which there are so many, and which are not only different in each country, but in many cases are different within the same country, are a protectionist administrative barrier created only to protect the company or the monopolist in the domestic market. in many cases, the only reason that equipment, locomotives are not allowed is to limit the entry of a foreign competitor or a private competitor. and the consequence of that is that there are so many different systems and security issues. if you look at the allocation of structural funds for infrastructure in the new member states, you will see that there is virtually no money for rail infrastructure. the administration, which should be writing applications for them, applying for money, is not interested in this at all. we are dealing with a model in which many member states are interested in keeping their railways unchanged, in keeping competition from other countries or from the private market uncomfortable. then security and competitiveness suffer.
mr. chairman, please! i'll make this very short. the whole idea is very sound. i especially like the emphasis on the ecological aspect. speaking of which, let's be consistent. it was ecological issues, environmental protection, that were the main arguments against the northern gas pipeline. these very valid, practical, scientifically sound arguments have been thrown out the window because political reasoning has prevailed. i think that in supporting this project we should be careful not to practice hypocrisy in politics. the northern gas pipeline was a project involving many eu countries and many political groups.
mr. chairman, please! the resolution on the situation in ukraine is balanced and objectively reflects reality, and it remains to wish ukraine the overcoming of its economic problems and a very deep division in society over the geopolitical future of ukraine. i would also like to draw attention to the decision of the outgoing president yushchenko to award the title of hero of ukraine to stefan bandera and the decree recognizing the nationalist organizations oun and upa as participants in the struggle for the independence of ukraine. and stefan bandera, and the organizations mentioned are responsible for the ethnic cleansing and crimes committed against the polish population in the 1940s in the areas of today's western ukraine. the nationalists murdered 120,000 poles. wishing ukraine all the best, i hope that the glorification of extreme, criminal nationalism will be condemned.
mr. chairman, please! i had the pleasure of being an observer for the european parliament in the first round of the presidential elections in ukraine. i must say that the ukrainian people have passed the test. the elections were very transparent and democratic, despite the last-minute changes to the electoral law. today ukraine needs political, economic and financial stability. therefore, while respecting the democratic choice of the ukrainian people, we should support and accelerate those actions that will help ukraine overcome its existing problems. the european union should send a clear signal that the door to the country's accession to the european union is open. if the european union really cares about ukraine, the first step should be to lift visas for ukrainians. i hope that the adoption of today's resolution will speed up the work on implementing these resolutions. that's why i voted to pass the resolution.
mr. chairman, please! i had the pleasure of being an observer of the presidential elections in ukraine, both in the first and second round (just like it was a few years ago). i would say that we should treat ukraine as a partner and not interfere with the sympathy of ukrainian voters. i think it was absolutely unnecessary for one of the leaders of alde, the liberals, to say yesterday in the european parliament that he believed that the new president would be a promoski. the new president of ukraine is making his first visit to brussels, and we should judge ukrainian politicians by their actions, not by their statements. ukraine should be our political partner and shorten the path of this grouping to the european union. i'm pleased to announce that the new president will rescind the decree that mr. kalinowski spoke of, the scandalous decree that recognized as a national hero of ukraine a man whose hands are the blood of many thousands of poles.
in writing. - i welcome the democratic conduct of the presidential elections in ukraine. in early 2010, ukrainian democracy proved its viability. particularly noteworthy is the high turnout. today, the very outcome of the elections in ukraine no longer raises any objections that could result in their judicial challenge. the european union cannot, however, confine itself to expressing its appreciation for the conduct of the elections. it is necessary to offer ukraine a multi-level european perspective. the first stage should be participation in the eastern partnership and the last stage membership of the european communities. the european union must pursue an open door policy towards ukraine. the degree of integration with the communities that ukraine decides to pursue should be a matter for the sovereign decision of the ukrainian people alone. the european union has a vital interest in improving ukrainian-russian relations. the consequences of ukraine-russia bilateral relations also affect eu member states. i welcome the announcement of an improvement in relations.
in writing. − during this plenary session we voted on the european parliament's resolution on the situation in ukraine. i voted in favour of this resolution because it is a very important declaration by our institution, which shows that we are closely following the development of democracy in ukraine. the resolution generally welcomes the presidential elections and calls for political and economic stability in the country. the key point is the need to strengthen cooperation between ukraine and the eu, especially in the energy field. there were two amendments that were controversial from my point of view. the first was on linguistic minorities - i voted against this amendment because it reinforced the use of russian instead of ukrainian. the second amendment concerned the nord stream pipeline. i voted in favour of this because i wanted to express my opposition to the construction of this pipeline.
in writing. − the eu's human rights policy is one of the most important values we put into practice. the community's human rights policy shall include the protection of civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights. it attaches great importance to promoting the rights of women and children and of national minorities, and in particular to combating racism, xenophobia and other forms of discrimination. it is very dangerous to apply discriminatory laws to minorities that infringe their right to freedom of religion or restrict their access to education, employment. so restricting their right to work, and therefore their right to a basic standard of living. the union's activities to date give us the right to demand that others respect all standards in the area of democracy and human rights.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 25 february 2010.
a few remarks to start with. opening the plenary session of the european parliament, i am once again obliged to inform the member states of the tragic natural disasters of the past few days. an earthquake struck turkey today, killing at least 57 people. last week, an earthquake in chile killed nearly 300 people, and a storm in europe killed more than 60, mostly french citizens. we also do not forget haiti, where the latest death toll from the january earthquake has exceeded 300,000 people. in all these cases, i have offered my condolences and sympathy on behalf of the european parliament to the families of the deceased. each unexpected and premature death is a tragedy for them, but the deaths of tens or hundreds of thousands are also a tragedy for entire nations and the world. we join in solidarity with the families and send our condolences to the countries affected by this tragedy. march 11 is the 20th anniversary of lithuania's regaining its independence. it was the first country in the communist bloc to declare its independence from the soviet union. among our lithuanian colleagues in the european parliament are four signatories to the 1990 declaration of independence. congratulations to all the colleagues. (laughter) (applause) also on march 11, 1990, the estonian congress (the democratic interim parliament) adopted a declaration on the rebirth of the state after 50 years of soviet occupation. we also congratulate our estonian colleagues. (laughter) (applause) march 10th is the 51st anniversary of the tibetan uprising. as a result, the dalai lama and 80,000 tibetans were forced to flee their country. we hope and regularly appeal to the authorities of the people's republic of china to change their attitude towards the tibetan people and to enter into a fruitful dialogue with their representatives. (laughter) (applause) in view of the comments made by mr nigel farage during the last mini-plenary session and in accordance with rule 153 (3) of the rules of procedure, i have had a meeting with mr farage and have subsequently decided to impose a penalty of a deduction from his 10-day diet. (applause) at the same time, i would like to inform you of another event, namely, that there has been another theft. a colleague of ours was robbed very close to the european parliament buildings. i have been in contact with the authorities in brussels and the belgian authorities for some time. our colleague, isabelle durant, is the mediator in these talks, because she is well aware of the situation on the ground in brussels and in belgium. today, together with the commission and the european council, we want to create a special zone near these three institutions, where security will be provided not only by the authorities in brussels but also by the belgian government and the central authorities of belgium. there are intense discussions going on, with meetings taking place last week immediately after the theft, and more to come in the coming days. the official police meeting has been set for march 22. i just want to tell you that we are working very hard to improve security around the european parliament buildings and other european institutions, not just the parliament. we're treating this as a joint issue.
the final draft agenda, drawn up in accordance with rule 137 of the rules of procedure, was distributed by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 4 march 2010. the following changes are proposed: monday: unchanged tuesday: the same. wednesday: the greens/efa and gue/ngl groups have requested that a commission statement on the genetically modified potato variety 'amflora' be included on the agenda.
please follow the rules. according to the rules, these are one-minute speeches, both in support of the motion and those against the motion. please do not extend this time, as it is against the rules of procedure and the rules of procedure. i'm asking you to. i have received a request from the united left, as well as from mrs. rebecca harms, for a roll call vote. we're going to vote on it now. (parliament rejected the request) (the order of business has been set)
the next item is the statement by the president on international women's day. women's day in europe today is a different celebration than the one we remember, at least in the countries of central and eastern europe. we don't just give flowers to our friends on march 8th anymore. today, it is also an opportunity for important debates: on equal rights, support for mothers in large families and the fight against violence against women. the european parliament is actively involved in these debates. the committee on women's rights and gender equality is a very important committee in this house. in november 2009, we adopted a resolution on the elimination of violence against women, calling on the european commission and the member states to develop coherent action programmes against this form of violence. we have ambitions to set an example for the rest of the world in this respect. women deserve more today, because we want to save europe from demographic collapse, but it cannot be at the expense of women. mothers of three or four children must be able to work, to advance in their careers, to enjoy the same rights as men. publicly available nurseries and kindergartens, as well as workplaces, are just one way to achieve this. but mothers who want to stay at home with their children should also be given the opportunity to do so, for example through a proper tax system that pays for the whole family, not just for the two spouses. our aim is full equality wherever possible and wherever necessary - that is, everywhere. discrimination in employment and society must become a thing of the past. in the european union, women and men are equal in dignity and equal in rights, and defending these rights is also a task for us, for the european parliament. i wish all the ladies present in the european parliament that every day is their day, that they never feel discriminated against, and that you - our ladies - are increasingly in the european parliament.
we welcome commissioner john dalli to our ranks, and welcome him warmly! the commissioner will now speak on behalf of the commission.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am very pleased that my first attendance at the plenary session of the european parliament takes place on this important day – 8 march, international women’s day. it is also an honour for me to represent the commission, and in particular vice-president reding, who will lead the commission’s efforts to protect fundamental rights. this is a unique opportunity to collectively celebrate the economic, political and social achievements of women, past, present and future. in 1957, gender equality was enshrined in the european treaties. since then, an impressive number of legal instruments, followed by a great number of decisions by the european court of justice, have created a legal arsenal at eu level. i would like to remind you that gender equality is not only a fundamental value enshrined in the treaty, but also that gender equality policies have proven to be a driver for economic growth. last friday, the president of the european commission and vice-president reding renewed the commission’s commitment to the values of gender equality by presenting a women’s charter. the women’s charter represents the political commitment of the commission to advance equality between women and men in five areas: equal economic independence; equal pay for equal work and work of equal value; equality in decision-making; dignity, integrity and an end to gender-based violence; and gender equality beyond the union. the women’s charter will be followed, in september 2010, by a new comprehensive strategy for equality between women and men. this strategy will translate the principles of the women’s charter into concrete actions to be implemented in the next five years. these are ambitious projects and objectives that the commission will not be able to achieve alone. it will need to work in close cooperation with its main partners at eu level and, in particular, with you, the european parliament and the femm committee. international women’s day is an excellent opportunity to remind us all of this commitment.
we're ending speeches that are not only about international women's day, but also about our ongoing commitment to women's equality and to ending violence.
the next item on the agenda is a one-minute speech on a major political issue.
mr president, here in the european parliament we recently adopted a resolution on ukraine, in which we questioned the granting by the former president of ukraine of a high state award to stepan bandera, a leader of the struggle for the country’s independence. this paragraph in our resolution has attracted much criticism in western ukraine. i would like to say that this resolution did not question bandera’s goal of an independent ukraine. indeed, the resolution supported the cause of a strong, united and free ukraine, which has the full backing of the european union and my native poland, but the resolution did suggest regret that the award was given with little regard to the tragic circumstances of the wartime struggle for an independent ukraine. this saw ethnic cleansing carried out also in the name of bandera. my view is that what was missing from the award given to bandera was an expression of regret for innocent victims of the struggle. only then could it have fully served the goal of an independent ukraine in peace with its neighbours. the award should have been accompanied by an effort for reconciliation with the families. (the president cut off the speaker.)
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the eu directive on package holidays that we are discussing today dates back to 1990, 20 years ago, when the most popular type of holiday was a two-week package, usually booked at a travel agency and selected from the offers left in a brochure. this directive provides for basic consumer protection measures for such packages, covering in particular transparent information on offers, the right to cancel a trip, compensation for services of a lower standard and insolvency issues of travel agencies. the problem is that over the last 20 years, both the business model and the consumer behavior model have changed completely. i myself book most of my holidays online, as do many of my countrymen, and in the european union as a whole, the percentage of people who book their holidays online is already 23%. we have countries like ireland and sweden where it's as high as 40 percent, and yet almost two-thirds of those who buy their holidays this way don't realize that the protection of their interests is much lower than for people who still buy their holidays the traditional way. we should fight it. i am glad that the european commission has finally raised this issue. i think 20 years is definitely too long. i hope that we will hear from the commission today exactly when this directive will be amended and in what direction these amendments will go. it cannot be that in the european parliament or in other eu institutions we encourage eu citizens to use e-commerce services, to buy services also in cross-border trade, and at the same time we do not offer the same protection to those who do so.
i support the revision of the package travel directive, which is 20 years old and does not correspond to the current realities. today, more than half of consumers are making their own travel arrangements, often using the internet and low-cost airlines. my predecessors have spoken of it. however, not all have pointed out that the scope of the directive should be clearly defined. it can't be that you don't know what it's about. this is not good for consumers or good for business. i think it is unnecessary to extend the scope of the directive to individual products or packages purchased from different suppliers. the extension of the requirements of the directive to dynamic affiliate sales packages would ultimately be paid for by the consumer in the form of a more expensive ticket. i cannot imagine, for example, that a hotel purchased by clicking on wizz hotels immediately after the purchase of a wizzair ticket would constitute a package subject to the requirements of the directive. the consumer needs to know whether and to what extent he is protected by eu law in the case of a particular journey. everything else is a free market thing. it would be a good idea to designate the journeys covered by the directive with a special pan-european logo.
member of the commission. - mr president, i would first of all like to thank and commend the work done by the two rapporteurs, mr lehne, who has just spoken, and mr sterckx. as president lehne has said, i would like to point out that this commission proposal for a directive is in response to a request from the european parliament. the parliament's resolution is dated 18 december 2008. it had called on the commission to submit a legislative proposal to enable member states to exclude micro-entities from the scope of the accounting directives. at the same time, the high level group on reducing administrative burdens, chaired by mr stoiber - as you have just said, mr lehne - has clearly expressed its support for this proposal. finally, the european economic and social committee has supported this proposal for simplification of accounting. so here we are. why is this measure important? the proposal is intended to enable member states to harmonise, to make more consistent, the reporting requirements of all micro-entities by creating a single reporting system. this new approach should lead to significant cost reductions for these entities. mr. lehne, you said several billion. i have the figures from my services, which, in the upper range, estimate these savings at 6.3 billion euros. even if this figure were less, i think it would justify the end of the debate on this subject, in order to encourage the activity of european micro-entities. that is also why i am calling for the proposal on these micro-entities to be adopted quickly. if this proposal were to be included in a more general framework, that of the revision of the accounting directives, as was desired - i have noted this - by the committee on economic and monetary affairs, it would certainly take more time, or even several years, before the provisions would be applicable. at the moment, ladies and gentlemen, i am hearing criticisms, remarks and proposals from both sides and i would like to try to answer or reassure on three particular points. firstly, what the proposal does is to give member states an option which they can choose to exercise or not exercise, i.e. member states which wish to do so can maintain the current rules without having to amend their own national regulations. secondly, i would like to stress that this proposal is in the direction of simplification and subsidiarity. in order for citizens and businesses to understand the internal market, to take ownership of it, we must not impose rules at european level when they are not really necessary. i think that in the specific context of micro-entities, the current rules may seem excessive. thirdly, contrary to what has been said, this proposal does not necessarily mean that accounting requirements for micro-entities should be abolished. i know that was a fear expressed in some states. the compromise proposed by the committee on legal affairs is quite clear on this point. these companies will have to keep supporting documents which give a concrete picture of the transactions carried out and their own financial situation. in conclusion to these few introductory words and before i listen to you, i want to personally encourage parliament to support this proposal. the parties involved are waiting for this decision and i think a strong signal from parliament is needed to move this matter forward now. we are all in favour of simplification. i think that this proposal which president lehne is very keenly supporting is an example of this simplification and i hope that micro-entities will soon be able to benefit from the savings which are expected from this proposal.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we are well aware of the differences between microenterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises, let alone between microenterprises and large economic bodies. i would therefore like to draw attention to the negative environmental factors for the activities of these companies. these are both macro factors, such as legislation, taxes and red tape, and micro factors, such as difficulties with excess, low liquidity. what is the cause of this situation? well, it's causing the first-year survival rate of micro-enterprises to hover around 60 percent for the last few years. this means that more than one third of newly created micro-enterprises did not survive their first year on the market. if we also consider that in many member states micro-enterprises represent more than 90% of all economic operators, the discussion on reducing administrative barriers and burdens of various kinds, especially those related to accounting, becomes absolutely necessary. it is also important that discussions focus not only on simplification but also on the significance of financial reporting requirements for such small operators. the debate on simplification is generally focused on costs, while the debate on the meaning of requirements is about the benefits of financial reporting and the individual users and their needs. there are several features that distinguish microenterprises from large enterprises that make it advisable to introduce simplified regulations for microenterprises. first, the benefits of implementing global standards are certainly less than for large companies. this leads to a mismatch between the benefits and costs of applying standards. the appropriate cost-benefit relationship requires cost containment. secondly, financial reporting does not play a significant role in meeting the information needs of micro-enterprise owners these are usually family members. when we talk about the need for change in the wake of the financial crisis, let's remember that it wasn't micro-enterprises that caused the crisis.
in writing. i am very pleased that we are reducing the bureaucratic burden on companies by adopting new reporting rules for micro-enterprises. the fact that dozens of regulations are hampering people's entrepreneurship is one reason why the lisbon strategy has not been able to achieve its objectives. in particular, bureaucratic constraints affect small and medium-sized enterprises, for which accounting and legal costs are disproportionate to their revenues. how can the eu be the most competitive economy in the world if companies are subject to so many regulations? it is a shame to say that too many regulations that are embarrassing to businesses are authored by brussels, thus contributing to further restrictions on economic freedom. the commission's initiative was therefore fully deserving of support, even if the legal affairs committee's amendments were adopted. it is not useful to maintain complex reporting rules for small enterprises. if the eu is to develop at the pace we all want, we must take further steps to remove unnecessary obstacles. i therefore call on the european commission to complement the eu 2020 strategy with a clear objective of reducing the number of eu rules that hinder entrepreneurship. it is urgent to identify areas that are unnecessarily regulated and to eliminate such regulation. otherwise, europe will remain the region that develops more slowly than the other advanced economies in the world.
the rapporteur. - i am pleased to present the 19th internal market scoreboard presented last july. this document shows that member states are doing better at implementing eu law. once again, the objective set by the heads of state or government of keeping the average implementation deficit below 1% has been achieved. but the number of directives that have not yet been implemented in one or more member states, i.e. the fragmentation of the market, is still too high. this is over 100 internal market directives. in addition, as many as 22 directives have not been implemented for another 2 years after the deadline for transposition. member states must do even more to make the internal market a source of benefit for all europeans. as i present this report to you, i have another scoreboard in my hands, the 20th anniversary edition, which shows further progress in the implementation of eu legislation. the transposition deficit is falling to 0.7%, well below the target. that's the best score in history. it is clear that the work of the european commission, which has resulted in this publication, has a mobilizing effect on the member states. the commission can be congratulated on this good, hard work. the other good news is that market fragmentation is going down from 6% to 5%. however, 74 directives remain unimplemented in one or more eu countries, which keeps barriers, very harmful barriers, within the internal market for citizens and businesses. we have to break down these barriers together. to this end, the report by the internal market committee proposes closer cooperation between all those who share responsibility for implementing eu legislation and those who benefit from the common market. we propose to organise an annual single market forum simfo, which would bring together the european institutions, but also the member states, national parliamentarians and business and consumer representatives. the forum will provide an opportunity to exchange experience and best practice in the implementation of union law and to prepare strategies to meet the challenges that still lie ahead. to remove these harmful barriers, we call on the european commission to apply the internal market test to any new eu legislation to ensure that it does not adversely affect the freedoms that the european union has developed. it is also very important to provide citizens with clear information on how the internal market works, bearing in mind that 20 years ago the internal market was created for them. in order to present a more complete picture of the development of the internal market, the committee on the internal market and consumer protection calls for the simultaneous publication of the internal market scoreboard, the solvit report, the citizens signpost service and the consumer markets scoreboard. finally, i would like to thank all those who worked on this report and ask you to vote, because i am sure that in the future this will lead to a faster and more effective implementation of eu legislation in the legal systems of the member states, which will help europeans to face fewer barriers in the internal market, which is essential for the development of our european economy, but also for our european identity.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the process of building a common market based on the four freedoms of movement of persons, goods, capital and services is still an unfinished process, especially as regards the fourth freedom of movement of services. and this is a process that is extremely important, especially in times of economic slowdown or economic crisis that we are facing on our continent. it is precisely at a time of economic slowdown that we should be talking about the benefits of the common market, and perhaps then the political will will emerge, as mr rochefort has called for. i would therefore like to congratulate the bureau of the european parliament for recognising the importance of the problem and for deciding to make the debate on these three reports a priority debate in this part-session of parliament. i thank and congratulate the chairman of the committee on the internal market, mr harbour, for his efforts in this regard. i also congratulate all three rapporteurs on these three very important reports. but i cannot help but see the absurdity of it. well, today in the plenary we are discussing mrs thun's report (a very good report, i should like to say), but it is a report on the 2008 internal market scoreboard. the commission has already published a table of the results of the internal market for 2009. i think this is another argument for the commission to publish all four important internal market monitoring reports at the same time in the future. the internal market scoreboard, the consumer markets scoreboard, the solvit report and the citizens advice bureau report all deal with the same subject and we should all be receiving them at the same time. finally, i would like to express my support for the two main points in the report by mrs thun. i fully support both the demand for an annual internal market forum and, very importantly, the demand for a mandatory test, the so-called internal market test, which should be added to any future proposal from the european commission.
it is good that parliament has prepared a report on solvit, with suggestions for the european commission and the member states. as co-rapporteur for the european conservatives and reformists group, i have already stressed at committee level the importance of promoting solvit among the citizens of the european union, especially the possibility of citizens, and in particular businesses, exercising their rights. i think we can all agree that there is a need for an information campaign to promote solvit as an alternative dispute resolution mechanism. the idea is to make sure that the people who are interested in solvit know about it. the internet is key here, so it would be good if the commission took parliament's suggestion and initiated the creation of a common web address for all national solvit centres under the solvit.eu domain, and member states that have not yet done so, created websites in national domains linked to the european solvit portal. of course, promotion is not everything. it is also important to increase the effectiveness of the national solvit centres by providing them with competent officials and to co-finance solvit at european level.
i would like to congratulate all the rapporteurs responsible for these reports because they have two very important features. firstly, they are indeed very consistent in defending the internal market, pointing out weaknesses in its implementation, and at the same time they are very consistent in defending it. the second great value of these reports is that they are widely accepted. this means that we are facing a situation in which the whole of the european parliament, including those of you who are more sceptical of the free market, is generally defending the internal market and this value is the great value of these reports. i would like to draw your attention to a few specific matters. as far as solvit is concerned, we are faced with the paradoxical situation (mr kurski spoke about this) that the instrument which is supposed to compensate for these differences operates at different levels in different countries and in my view this requires some coordination, it must be a coherent system that not only works well, but also works the same everywhere. and what is very important in the report by mrs thun the means that the commission should find to develop a model so that any legislation we create is not contrary to the free internal market, seem to be key in this report. if we can build such a mechanism, we can also be confident about the future of the new market.
mr. chairman, please! i congratulate the rapporteurs on their very good reports. we have been talking a lot lately about the need to revive the internal market. the commissioner also spoke about this during his interview with the imco committee. this will also be the subject of professor monti's report, which we are awaiting. in my view, a little too little of the internal market itself has been included in the eu 2020 strategy. we need a single market, but we need a single market that is not just a name, but a functioning one. that's not the situation we're dealing with right now. the potential of free movement is hampered by too many barriers to free movement and protectionist policies in the member states are contrary to the rules of the internal market. on the one hand, we need the correct implementation of the law by the member states, we need well-functioning support instruments such as solvit, but we also need a deeper one (...). (the president declared the common position adopted as amended)
member of the commission. - mr president, mrs schaldemose has just emphasized the quality of this debate, particularly on the specific point of the consumer agency, which, unless i am mistaken, already exists in canada, john dalli will tell us what the situation is today. i agree with this assessment on the quality of the debate and the quality of all the constructive criticisms or proposals that have been made on the implementation and evaluation, on the follow-up of these 1 500 - i repeat this to all those who are listening to us - 1 500 directives or texts that organise this great european market. i do not know whether i would not prefer to speak of the single european market rather than the single market, it would be clearer for citizens and consumers. i would like to remind you, under the supervision of mr malcom harbour, who heard me say this in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, and in the words of mr triantaphyllides, what the blueprint is for what i will be doing in the commission for the next five years. ladies and gentlemen, my intention, day after day, legislation after legislation, is to put the european market back at the service of the men and women who live on our continent. my second intention is to put markets back in their place - since i also have this responsibility for regulation and supervision - to put financial markets, which we have been talking about a lot in the last few months, back in the service of the real economy, in the service of men and women. i want citizens, consumers, small businesses to take back this market. this will guide the action i will have the honour of leading in the college. it is a matter of trust, to use the word used earlier by mr rochefort and mrs rhüle, of mutual trust. and that is why i thank róża von thun und hohenstein again for the quality of her report on the bulletin board published by the european commission. there are many ideas in this report and in all that i have heard which are worth taking up or studying. mr bielan supported the idea of the rule-enforcement indicators in mrs von thun's report. mrs gebhardt also referred to the economic and social evaluation of the directives and the impact studies. perhaps, at this point, i can echo the constructive criticism of president malcolm harbour about strategy 2020. and i also heard mrs handzlik say that we were not talking enough about the internal market. frankly, when you read precisely the 2020 strategy that the commission published last week, the internal market is at the heart of this approach and it is everywhere: smart growth with patents and other tools, green growth with the right use of public procurement, inclusive or fair or just growth. the internal market is everywhere, it must be everywhere, but, mr president, the 2020 text is not intended to cover everything. for example, he does not speak of foreign and defence policy, nor does he intend to relieve the commission of its task, which is the proper application, vigilance and monitoring of the proper implementation of all the texts. i hope you will believe that i do not feel exempt from checking and acting, sometimes even through infringement proceedings, to ensure the proper application of the internal market. but i will always, and i repeat, always prefer the contract, the trust, the explanation, to the compulsion. there are other good ideas in mrs von thun and hohenstein's report: partnership with the member states and the creation of this internal market forum which i support. perhaps we could, on that day, bring together other initiatives around the same subjects that we are dealing with with john dalli, such as the implementation or the highlighting, the promotion of the solvit network, and do things at the same time. i said, "i'm going to put as much emphasis on the follow-up effect as i do on the advert effect". this is my way of doing politics and, from this point of view, i think that the scoreboard, the evaluation, should enable us to make not only a quantitative evaluation of how many directives are transposed but also a qualitative one. i think that mr hoang ngoc spoke very clearly about the quality of the implementation of the laws, the quality of transposition and, as you said, also the quality of the laws themselves, which is a good exercise in lucidity for a legislator or a commissioner. in any case, all these ideas are useful, as mr schwab and mrs roithová have argued. on solvit, to conclude with some telegraphic appreciation, i would like to take up the idea that has been mentioned from a solvit.eu website, which is a good idea. it will disseminate the information or link to the national sites. we will be working with my services very soon on this solvit.eu site in conjunction with another project concerning the your europe site. but as seán kelly said, at least the word solvit is a clear and simple word, you said, and i stand by that positive assessment. solvit works well; it could work better. there are too many citizens and businesses who are still unaware of their rights and how to enforce them, and i agree with mrs werthmann's observation that there should be more transparency. i also think that several of you, mrs vergnaud, mr rossi, mrs stihler, mrs rapti, have mentioned the inadequacy of the resources available for solvit, not only in france, although i have heard your question. it is not a french minister who is speaking to you, even if he is a former french minister, and i ask you to believe that i will be watching very closely what is happening in this country which is still mine so that it works well, as in all other countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i hope that the council will take them up. once again, these tools are necessary to verify properly how the internal market works, which, i repeat, is not yet complete. we must revive it, deepen it - as has been said by several speakers, mr stolojan, mrs gebhardt, mr karas, mr kožušník - at the cross-border level or even within each country. we must remove the obstacles and that is why, mr president harbour, it is important to identify the missing links, which are perhaps not sufficiently highlighted, but which are nevertheless set out in the 2020 strategy. i will be doing this with my 12 or 15 colleagues in the college who are responsible, in one way or another, for the application of the directives on the internal market. i would like to conclude, mr president, on three points. yes to close cooperation, mr busuttil was the one who raised this issue between solvit, the ombudsman and the work of the committee on petitions. i'm going that way. i thank mrs rühle and the other members of the committee on budgets for their willingness to support the solvit budget. i am thinking of mrs gruny's idea of holding consultations and seminars. we already have one or two per year, but i will check that this is enough between all the staff in the member states, sometimes even in the regions, who are in charge of the solvit project. finally, on the question which has been criticised by several members of the socialist group on the internal market test, i would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that any legislative proposal must respect the treaty. that is what the rapporteur means, that is to say, to pass a test of compatibility with the principles of the internal market. that is one thing, and i will also ensure, as i have promised, that any legislation is assessed beforehand against a number of social, environmental and economic criteria. these are the commitments upstream and downstream of all legislation to try to build the best body of legislation to serve the citizens, consumers and businesses who work and live in european territory.
member of the commission. − mr president, like my colleague, michel barnier, i find it very heartening to be part of such a lively debate and to hear such expert views relating to consumer issues. this augurs well for our working together in a true spirit of partnership and achieving our objective to put consumers first. if i may, i will repeat one point i made in my initial address. in addition to the economic arguments for a strong, effective and properly enforced consumer policy, we should keep our sights firmly on the central role this can play in reconnecting europe with its citizens – perhaps the biggest prize of all. i know that one of my main tasks is to coordinate this effort in the commission, and your vigilance will be most welcome and comforting. the consumer scoreboard is a tool which enables us to detect failures in the market and allows us to move to a further study on how to address such failures. i believe that it is a crucial mechanism that serves a very real purpose, and we can usefully benefit from its further development and strengthening. the scoreboard will be our eyes and ears alerting us to problem hotspots. a better reflection of the consumer angle across eu policies and our joint commitment to effective enforcement will result in a stronger eu consumer, and the economic benefits that will follow. following a public consultation last year, the commission is evaluating the comments about collective redress and intends to find a solution that meets european consumers’ needs without importing us practices. alternative dispute resolution is going to be our key mover in this regard. my friend, michel barnier, has already explained the central position that the internal market has in the eu 2020 strategy. if you look closely at the text, there is a clear understanding also that consumers must remain at the heart of the single market. consumers are positioned as drivers of the single market and we intend to continue to consolidate the centrality of consumers. i see the issue of consumer education as a key issue for consumer empowerment. we are indeed looking at how our dolcetta programme can be further enhanced to cover new areas. on the last point raised about a european consumer agency, it must be emphasised that enforcement is the exclusive obligation of the member states and they need to provide adequate resources for its proper functioning. however, the treaty does provide a legal basis for the union to support and complement their efforts. it has to be carefully evaluated in what areas the eu can complement national public enforcement and what is the right institutional structure for that. the commission will carefully evaluate the different options. i very much look forward to making serious and sustained progress with you over the time i am responsible for this sector.
the rapporteur. - first of all, i would like to thank you very much for this fascinating debate, for the lively reactions, for the serious reflections, and the presence and speeches of both commissioners and the numerous commission staff gathered show that this new parliament and this new commission will work well and closely together to further develop the common market. the single market is one of the greatest achievements of the european union and i thank you very much for the positive response to the proposals i made in my report. and to my socialist colleagues who are afraid of paragraph 10 - the single market test - i would like to remind them that first of all this is nothing new, this proposal was already adopted by the imco committee in 2003 and is part of the internal market strategy. let's not be afraid of him. this test does not destroy anything the european union has achieved in terms of social progress. we have heard the commissioner say that the european commission is evaluating new directives in terms of social, economic and environmental criteria, so do not panic. we all want the common market to continue to develop and we also want protectionism to stop creeping into the european commission. european integration will only develop if citizens are aware, active, and public institutions competent, efficient and citizen-friendly. in this report, i propose a number of solutions to enable your country, ladies and gentlemen, to engage its electorate effectively and efficiently in the process of european integration, and in this case, to increase its share in the single market, the great achievement of the european union, by strengthening the single market. we must continue to develop instruments to help develop the common market. the joint publication of the four reports is a very important element, better coordination, better implementation of legislation. let's not be allergic to the word "market". in my part of the world, we haven't been able to access this market for many decades, and we know what that has led to. in conclusion, we remind citizens that the four freedoms are at the heart of the common market, and this is what we emphasize in my report, and it is extremely important not to restrict the freedoms of this market, to help citizens to use them more fully, to develop, not to destroy anything that has been achieved.
in writing. a society that is free to exploit the opportunities offered by the single market is the key to the success of the european integration process. we cannot build a true, united union without convincing people that all of europe is their home. and that is what solvit can do first and foremost. it is safe to say that the creation of solvit in 2002 was one of those events in the history of a united europe that may seem unremarkable on the surface, but over time brings unexpected consequences. the idea of this system goes straight to the roots of european integration, namely that it is meant to serve the citizens of the union first and foremost, not individual countries or governments. what could be better than giving ordinary people a simple tool to solve problems that limit their freedom to function within the single market? however, experience gained over the last decade has shown that there are many barriers to taking full advantage of the opportunities offered by the system. the report prepared by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection should therefore be endorsed. the main focus should be on promoting solvit among the citizens of the member states, as knowledge of it is limited. the allocation of more financial and human resources, additional training of staff or the creation of a liaison officer institution will not make sense if people do not know that they have such an instrument at their disposal. i think that this is the starting point for all action, without abandoning the others.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to thank mr. coelho very much. my opinion is included in this regulation. i also had the opportunity to work on the content. i would like to say that mr coelho's report is not only urgent and important but also symbolic. today, as a representative of a new country, i am proud to say that we can change the rules that facilitate free movement in the schengen area, where until recently some of the current countries of the european union faced similar difficulties. i think the symbolic nature of these changes is invaluable today, and i hope that this consensus reached in the chamber will be a great success for all of us. secondly, i would like to say that the abolition of c+d visas today and the fact that member states are no longer able to issue residence permits is forcing us to act with great urgency. i'm just going to give you a few examples that were passed around this room today. a couple of ukrainian students who were travelling from wrocław to berlin were detained last year while crossing the border, mainly due to the ignorance of young people who wanted to use their intellectual achievements. i think today's vote is going to be very important and very important for all of us. i just wanted to point out the last element of the safety issue. today we should be exchanging the information gathered in schengen well, today we should certainly be working on sis ii and vis and, above all, perhaps even more frequent reviews and reports. here i make a heartfelt appeal to the commissioner to ensure that the coordination between member states on security is as good as it has been so far and i thank mr coehlo very much once again for his excellent report.
mr. chairman, please! the proposal in question concerns one of the fundamental principles of the functioning of the european union, namely the abolition of internal borders and the free movement of persons. for this reason, it deserves special attention. it is incomprehensible and therefore unacceptable that long-stay visa holders have less freedom of movement within the schengen area than short-stay visa holders. that is why i am in favour of the european commission's proposal. however, i believe that the design should be amended to ensure safety. i therefore support the proposal of the committee on civil liberties that there should be a flow of information on undesirable persons between member states within the schengen information system. the european commission should also be required to submit a report on the application of the regulation by 5 april 2012 at the latest. the amendments that have been prepared deserve serious reflection and, in the majority, support.
mr. chairman, please! it is not just the citizens of third countries who want to see the movement of people within the schengen area facilitated, but also we - the people of the european union. today, there is a paradox that a holder of a short-stay visa has more freedom of movement than a holder of a long-stay visa, and a third-country national who has a legal long-stay permit, for example in poland, cannot go to germany or france. freedom of movement should not be limited to eu citizens. researchers, students, students and entrepreneurs from third countries should be able to move freely, visit friends and learn about the traditions, customs and culture of other countries. they will be good ambassadors for the idea of the european union, and we, the people of the european union, will take a step towards the realisation of the idea of 'a union without borders'.
madam president! i would like to justify my vote on mrs de brún's report. thank you very much for preparing this document. the requirements for the transport of animals are not only for their protection, but above all for the safety and health of humans. i would like to express my support for the efforts to extend the expiry date of the transitional procedures and, as a result, to eliminate the rabies problem in the european union. of course, we should exercise caution and discretion in the free movement of pet animals within the union, while taking into account the expert opinion of research institutions.
madam president! first of all, i would like to thank my colleague for producing this report, which is so important for economic growth. i fully agree with the author's observations and comments on the introduction and enforcement of community law in the member states. a well-functioning internal market is an essential element of a stable economy, which is so necessary in times of crisis. the effective use of the potential of this market depends on effective cooperation between institutions at national and european level. reduced administrative burden, efficient communication between competent authorities, simplified procedures and harmonised rules will result in the rapid and effective implementation of directives in the member states. the publication of up-to-date data and the effective provision of information to citizens and businesses about their rights and the situation on the market will improve the functioning of the market and improve the transparency of the rules, ensuring a level playing field.
in writing. - consumer protection is a very important issue for the commission to address. of course, effective action alone will not be enough if consumers do not get involved. consumers must be aware of their rights. making the most of the opportunities offered by the single european market is a major challenge for the commission. to meet this challenge, effective consumer protection must be one of the eu's priorities. i believe that the use of scoreboards for consumer markets, as one of the tools for monitoring markets, is most beneficial from the consumer's point of view. these tables clearly indicate which markets do not sufficiently respond to consumer needs. analysis of these indicators shows, inter alia, that consumers face particular problems in the services market and that cross-border online trade between member states is largely organised by cross-border barriers. i'm pleased to say that there are plans for more boards. i also hope that they will provide even more detailed information than the previous ones. such tools make it much easier to understand consumer problems and respond to their needs. there is no doubt that the introduction of eu consumer protection legislation in individual eu countries is beneficial for our citizens.
in writing. − competition policy is one of the main and earliest agreed community policies. the justification and necessity of such a procedure is directly linked to one of the main objectives of the european communities, namely the creation of a common market for the member states. competition policy is designed to ensure that barriers to internal trade within the common market are not replaced by other actions by firms or governments that distort competition. competition policy is primarily concerned with the interests of consumers and seeks to ensure that they have easy access to goods and services offered in the single market at prices that are as close as possible to each other. i would simply like to draw your attention to the serious crisis that has struck europe and to say that a well-functioning internal market is the key to a healthy economy and certainly to the recovery that awaits us in the near future.
in writing. − europe, hit by the economic crisis, was able to react quickly and mitigate the effects of the crisis thanks to a common currency, a strong internal market and a stable social protection system. it's not that there aren't any repercussions, but there are signs of improvement. unfortunately, consumers still face problems in taking advantage of competition. their rights must be protected and their awareness and knowledge increased. the proper functioning and competitiveness of the european market gives consumers the opportunity to benefit from the competitive system through the choice of products, services and lower prices. however, insufficient competition is a current phenomenon, particularly in the pharmaceutical and telecommunications sectors. the lack of competition is directly harmful to consumers as well as to the economy. there is also a need to monitor competitive behaviour on the union fuel markets. in order to ensure the effective enforcement of competition law, the commission should be able to impose fines on undertakings that infringe competition law. above all, however, the crisis has exposed the weaknesses of the european economy and highlighted areas that need to be strengthened. furthermore, all economic policy strategies must be subject to democratic control and implemented with due regard for the well-being and respect for the rights of european citizens.
in writing. − the internal market scoreboard is a very important tool for informing the member states on the state of implementation of european legislation. despite their obligations, member states are either late in implementing the law in time or are introducing the rules incorrectly. the table shows that member states are improving their implementation, but a large group of countries still fall short of the target. we need a clear commitment from the member states to improve these indicators. we have been talking a lot lately in the european parliament about the need to deepen the internal market. however, the internal market will not function properly if the rules that are the basis for a well-functioning internal market are not implemented correctly and in a timely manner. the internal market must also be supported by our citizens. i therefore support the rapporteur's initiative to organise an annual internal market forum and the 'internal market test', which is an initiative to test legislation against the four freedoms of the internal market: the movement of capital, goods, services and people.
the next item on the agenda is a question-and-answer session with the president of the european commission.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. - mr president, as you know, the creation of the common external service is a very important innovation of the lisbon treaty. this service will be essential in supporting the high representative in her responsibility to ensure the coherence of our common foreign and security policy. the aim is to strengthen the union by enabling member states to participate more and to pool more and more what they are currently doing separately in cfsp. it is not a question of placing community powers in an intergovernmental framework, quite the contrary. as you know, the commission must give its consent to the council's decision to set up the service. we have a special board meeting on this next thursday. i am in favour of a strong service, a genuine european service which can be an instrument of strategic coordination and a useful interface between member states and european institutions in the field of foreign policy. to fulfil its mission, the service needs to find its proper place in the architecture of the european union, under the responsibility of the high representative who, as vice-president of the commission, is fully accountable to this parliament and who has the responsibility of coordinating, within the commission, the other aspects of the union's external action.
president of the commission. − mr schulz, it is precisely because we had doubts regarding the greek figures –commissioner almunia handled this file over the last five years with great competence, great impartiality and great objectivity – that we not only raised the point several times with the greek authorities, but we did in fact put forward a regulation in the council to propose that eurostat be given audit powers. unfortunately this was rejected by the member states. they did not want to give eurostat and the european commission more powers to examine in depth the greek national accounts. i am very pleased to tell you that the first decision of the new commission was to put that regulation forward again, and my information is that at least some of the countries that voted against that regulation have already told me that they will vote this time for more transparency.
president of the commission. − first of all, if you ask me about blame – i do not use that word – it lies first of all with the greek authorities who did not respect the stability and growth pact. it is because of this that we have a huge problem. regarding the commission, commissioner almunia, with my full support and the support of the college, performed his job in an exceptionally competent way. this issue of the greek accounts was addressed several times in euro-area meetings. regarding the list of member states that voted against this matter, i cannot tell you off the top of my head exactly which, but i know, for instance, that germany voted against and it was also germany that told me they are going to vote in favour this time.
president of the commission. − first of all, regarding the proposal to have an emf, this idea was put forward by the german finance minister without giving any details of such an institution. it seems, however, an interesting contribution to the current debate about the euro area. the emf is, however, a longer term proposal which may well require a change in the treaty. what we are working on is preparing some initiatives on reinforcing economic policy coordination and country surveillance. we cannot at this stage tell you what exactly will be the format of this. of course, generally speaking, as you said, we support everything that moves towards increased economic governance, but we have to see the exact details and make the proposal at the right time. that said, the question of the emf could not solve the urgent issue of greece. it is a separate issue that requires more analysis, and that is for a longer term.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. - it is precisely to avoid what is happening now - everyone is proposing a different idea, sometimes two different ideas within the same government - that we do not want to rush. we want to prepare ourselves and, as commissioner olli rehn has already publicly announced, we are preparing a communication on enhanced economic policy coordination and country-specific surveillance at the level of the euro area and perhaps even at the level of the european union as a whole. this is what we are preparing and we cannot put forward a new proposal every day. we are working on this with objectivity and responsibility, and that is the way to achieve the best results.
i'd like to thank my colleagues, too. we saw your protest. thank you very much.
president of the commission. − i already said this, but i can repeat it. commissioner barnier will present some legislative proposals regarding the directive on derivatives before the summer and will also present a legislative proposal before the end of the year concerning the market abuse directive. we believe these proposals will increase market transparency and limit the risks. we intend to put the issue of credit default swaps to the g20 in june.
president of the commission. − i am somewhat surprised by this kind of comment. in fact the so-called representation expenses are expenses incurred in the service of the european union, namely travel by myself and the other members of the commission. in fact, if you compare these amounts with what is spent by governments or heads of state and government, you will find that these amounts are very small in comparison. the budget for the college is fixed annually by the budgetary authority. you are part of that, and this budget has remained the same for five years, only adapted for inflation. regarding this expenditure, we believe that it is reasonable and proportionate to the public good it tries to serve. we are, of course, using full transparency. we give the budgetary authority and the court of auditors all the information they request from us.
president of the commission. − in a system of law we respect the rule of law, and to analyse the intentions of people is at the least unfair. you cannot attribute to me or to the commission any intention behind respecting the rule of law. once again, i think we have to make a distinction between the obligations of the european commission – or any public body – regarding the rule of law, and giving in to demagogic attacks on the european institutions. the european commission, the european parliament and the european institutions in general have the highest standards in terms of transparency. so i do not accept this kind of easy criticism that is populist and demagogical.
we have completed the first round of questions, which was of a general nature. we will now focus on the implementation of the new treaty and fundamental rights.
president of the commission. − thank you for recognising that the commission defends fundamental rights. of course we defend them, not only in the european union but also in our external relations. this does not mean that we can only have relations with countries that respect fundamental rights. unfortunately, there are many countries in the world that do not respect fundamental rights and we have to keep relations with those countries. the case of eritrea raises concerns in terms of respect for fundamental rights in that country and also because of the extremely difficult situation in which that state exists. according to some commentators, it can be considered a failed state – a state where there is no rule of law, because of civilian conflict and widespread violence. there are many areas of that country where even the authorities cannot exercise legitimate democratic power. we are in fact following the situation very closely in all countries that can pose a problem for the respect of fundamental rights.
in the context of today's debate, i would like to draw attention to the issue of scanners at european airports. one of the clear objectives of european policy is to protect the life, health and fundamental freedoms of the citizens of the european union. it cannot therefore be that in return for an illusory sense of security, the dignity, privacy and protection of personal data of community citizens are so easily sacrificed. i feel like the situation with the scanners is very similar to what we were dealing with during the swine flu epidemic. under pressure, they invested huge sums in vaccines, which we now know was irrational and unjustified. scanners, in my opinion, are a low-grade drug that you're trying to find a disease to match. mr. president, i would like to hear your views on this matter. are you for or against the scanners?
president of the commission. − i will be in favour of it if member states agree, because i think it should be possible to harmonise the security and safety rules at our airports. what happens now is that some of our member states are introducing body scanners at their airports. others are not. as you know, the commission presented a proposal for body scanners some time ago that was refused. this does of course raise some concerns but we should try to find, if possible, a harmonised position regarding the utilisation of any security device at european airports. if not, we will have a kind of discrimination in the evaluation of security at our airports.
president of the commission. − this is not a question of fundamental rights, but of course we will discuss these issues with local and regional authorities. you know how important social and economic and territorial cohesion is for us. this is now recognised also by the lisbon treaty as one of the goals of the european union. in the new 2020 strategy that i presented some time ago, we made it clear that cohesion will remain a central feature of our proposals, and we want cohesion to be considered all the time in future policies. this is part of our dialogue with the regional and policy authorities. i also mentioned the need to consult the committee of the regions, for instance, in the document i have just referred to.
president of the commission. − i am sorry, but i do not know about this specific case in scotland. i would like to make a general point. in these political debates you cannot expect the president of the commission, even if he is a relatively hardworking person, to know about all the cases – which are extremely sensitive and extremely serious – that happen in europe. of course i can assure you of our concern and express our solidarity to any person who sees his or her human rights violated but, as regards that specific case, i do not have enough information here. however, i will be more than happy to react in writing to the question that you have just put.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. - madam president, i would like to ask you again not to ask me to go into domestic policy. the commission has fundamental rights responsibilities when it comes to the implementation of community law either by the european institutions or by the member states. it seems that in the case you have mentioned, it is not the application of community law that is at issue. this is typically, from what i understand from your presentation, a problem of internal political debate, perhaps with a legal or rule of law dimension, but the european commission does not have to intervene in the conflicts between the different political forces or political personalities in each of our member states.
president of the commission. − there are two questions there. i do not know if i can respond to them in one minute. first of all, regarding discrimination on sexual orientation, you know that the previous commission has proposed a directive against any form of discrimination, including that based on sexual orientation in areas outside of employment. we are committed to ensuring that european legislation, and member states’ implementation measures, fully respect the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation. these principles of non-discrimination, as you know and said, are enshrined in the european union charter of fundamental rights. regarding poland and the united kingdom, the protocol clarifies the application of the charter in relation to the laws and initiative action of poland and of the united kingdom and its judiciability within these member states. it states in particular that the charter does not extend the competence of the eu court of justice or any court or tribunal of poland or of the united kingdom to find that the laws and regulations or initiative provisions, practices or actions by these member states are inconsistent with the fundamental rights, freedoms and principles that it reaffirms. so we still have to see how the european court of justice will interpret the protocol of those two member states. §
president of the commission. − i partly already answered the question while answering the previous question. the united kingdom and other countries have a protocol regarding the charter of fundamental rights. it has that right. it was negotiated and we have an intergovernmental treaty that recognises this. having said this, i would of course prefer all member states to accept the charter of fundamental rights because i believe this charter is a basic compass for all european union policies. we are also now ready to accede to the european convention on human rights. this will complete the european union system of protection of fundamental rights. certainly, i very much respect the united kingdom as a democracy and a country of the rule of law. in fact it is one the countries that has, over the centuries, made a most important contribution to democracy. that is why i really regret that the united kingdom does not want to be with all its partners in the front line to have human rights not only at national level but also as a european project.
president of the commission. - last friday, i presented with commissioner reading a charter of women's rights which reaffirms the commission's commitment to gender equality and also reaffirms our willingness to work and go further in this area. in september, this charter we have just announced will be followed by a new strategy for equality between men and women. this will give us a very comprehensive overview of the commission's action in terms of progress on equality between men and women in the areas that the honourable member has just mentioned, from work to other ways in which it is important to ensure and guarantee equality. the letter didn't just come out of nowhere. the charter also commemorates the 15th anniversary of the beijing declaration, and it comes after many consultations i myself have had, particularly with the group of members of the european parliament who are devoted to the cause of women. i'm actually having another meeting first thing in the morning. every year i have had at least one meeting with members who have made this one of their first priorities.
mr bufton, our topic is implementation of the new treaty and respect of fundamental rights, so please keep to this topic. president barroso, are you prepared to give an answer?
president of the commission. − mr president, i try always to be ready for the requests of members of this parliament. your question, distinguished member of parliament, comes from an assumption that is not correct, namely that it is because greece is in the euro area that it is having some problems. in fact we have countries outside the euro area that have similar problems – in some cases, even more serious ones – both in the european union and outside the european union. may i remind you, for instance, of the grave situation of iceland, which is now asking to join the european union precisely because iceland hopes one day to join the euro as well. so in fact it is a complete mistake to think that the problems in greece are a result of greece being in the euro. it is precisely because greece has not respected the rules of the stability and growth pact that it is now facing difficulties. it will of course have to pay some costs for the difficult adjustment it has to make.
president of the commission. − the protection of personal data is a fundamental right explicitly recognised by article 8 of the european union charter of fundamental rights. thanks to the lisbon treaty, we can now establish a comprehensive and coherent framework for the protection of personal data. this is essential to protect the privacy of our citizens, to ensure a common approach to all data-processing activities within the european union, and parliament will of course be fully involved in the reform of the current legal framework since the codecision procedure also applies to the former third-pillar areas. we must also ensure that the fundamental rights of european citizens continue to be protected when personal data leave the union. in this context, a european union-united states agreement on personal data protection for persons could be important and, we are working towards this. currently we are taking consultations to ensure transparency and collect the views of stakeholders and citizens. the commission plans to table a draft recommendation to authorise negotiations with the united states.
president of the commission. − i am proud of the european union for being the first, as far as i remember, to raise the issue with a united states president – a former president – of the need to respect fundamental rights and the rule of law, also when dealing with terrorism, namely regarding the issue of guantánamo. it was myself and the then president of the european council, mr schüssel – then prime minister of austria – who raised the issue. that matter has always been an issue of dialogue with our american partners. you may be sure that this is going to be very high on the agenda. regarding data protection, we believe that we should also work with the united states on attaining a framework. i mentioned that in a previous response. at the same time we need to have a framework to combat terrorism together. so the issue is to find the right way of responding to two important needs: the need for freedom and respect of data protection, but also the need for security, because without security there is no possibility of freedom.
mr president, one of the key issues in the new lisbon treaty is the increased role of the european union in the world. with this new strengthened foreign policy, we as a union must be more active in the promotion and defence of human rights and fundamental rights in third countries. what are you and mrs ashton planning to do to strengthen the eu’s policy on the promotion of democracy? secondly, will you be supporting greater funding for the european instrument for democracy and human rights in the next budget? human rights always seem to take second and third place in our dialogues. i think we need to spend more time and money on the promotion of democracy and build a true european endowment for democracy. i would like to hear your opinion on these issues.
president of the commission. − we are very concerned with this case. commissioner malmström has already said that the suspension by libya of visas for citizens from the schengen area is a disproportionate measure. in addition, this situation is not coherent with the positive trend of relations between libya and the european union. intense diplomatic efforts are ongoing to find a solution to the crisis. already, one of the two swiss citizens has left libya. this is a positive step. the european union’s foreign and justice ministers discussed the issue on 22 february and 25 february respectively and supported the continuation of diplomatic efforts. i believe that it is essential to keep dialogue open and make the effort of understanding each party’s positions with a view to finding a solution as soon as possible.
president of the commission. − when these rulings were made public, we expressed our position very clearly. i myself, and commissioner špidla, who was responsible for employment and social affairs, made it clear that, in our understanding, those rulings could not call into question fundamental rights such as the right to strike, the right to trade unions and the specificities of some-labour relations mechanisms in our countries. we are working on some proposals to address this issue. i am afraid that i cannot give you a concrete date now as i was not expecting this question. however, i can tell you that, as i have said before, with the election of this commission – and the commissioner responsible has also said this – this is an issue that we will address shortly.
mr. chairman, please! i'd like to ask you about fundamental rights, the new treaty, including foreign policy. according to the budget control commission's research, 43% of financial transactions were wrong. how will the new treaty, the new amendment, the new approach in the context of our commitment to respect fundamental rights in the world radically reduce the level of error in budgeting and budget implementation and reporting? i'm emphasizing that the 43% is an estimate of the financial error rate.
president of the commission. − i would not say ‘in existence’, frankly speaking. turkey has made progress in terms of rule of law. however, we do not believe that it is yet compatible – in its standard of respect of fundamental rights and the rule of law – with european standards. this is precisely part of the work we have been developing with turkey over the years. each year, because turkey is a candidate country to the european union, the commission assesses in very objective terms the reforms made by turkey in the rule of law and all matters related to fundamental rights. there has been progress in some areas, to be fair. there are others areas where we are requesting more efforts from the turkish authorities. i believe that keeping up this dialogue – and in fact these negotiations – for turkey’s accession is indeed the right way to make progress in the matter of respect of fundamental rights, and generally speaking, the rule of law and democratic reforms in turkey.
president barroso, thank you very much for a very interesting debate. this has been the fourth question hour in plenary. the next will be in one month’s time at the next part-session in strasbourg. that concludes the item.
in writing. what the european commission and its president have been lobbying so hard for years on ambitious climate and energy policy is a simple attempt to destroy eu industry. this policy is either the result of ignorance exacerbated by the ipcc, or sheer stupidity, or it is the result of excessive cynicism leading to economic sabotage. it's a pity the left didn't figure out that this is just a trap for them, because the most amateur emissions traders are recruited from those who have already caused the crisis. but this time, the financial burden will be much greater. even now the damage caused by this suicidal policy is enormous, especially for my country poland. there's no need for war. it's easier to ruin a country than to rebuild it. i call on the commission to come to its senses, because what you are doing is not only anti-european but anti-humanitarian. we need an immediate review of the climate and energy package. that's what you should be doing, not encouraging others to commit economic suicide. green economy yes, but it's recycling of materials and energy, cogeneration, thermal modernization, renewable energy where there is no other, waste disposal, nuclear energy, greater energy saving and greater energy efficiency and others. so is co2 emissions also linked to such a green economy? yes, but paradoxically, when the emissions increase... but that's good...
in writing. madam president, commissioner, the copenhagen summit that we went to as leaders on climate change was a failure and showed that only europe is interested in reducing co2 emissions. the commissioner said that despite its failure to tackle global warming, it would remain at the centre of european policy. now, we're building a new strategy for the mexico summit, so we need to ask ourselves where we went wrong and to re-evaluate our position and our expectations, because the world is not ready to meet the constraints that are so great today. so i have three questions to ask the commissioner: firstly, how will we negotiate and what are the objectives we will set ourselves so that the summit in mexico does not end up like the summit in copenhagen? secondly, has the european commission verified the information on global warming and glacier melting against the background of erroneous or false information given by some scientists? and thirdly, would the commissioner agree with my statement that without the united states, china, russia and india agreeing to significant reductions in emissions, the european union's efforts and the costs we incur will be in vain?
in writing. the key challenge for the european union after copenhagen is to develop the necessary common roadmap as soon as possible before the cop 16 in mexico. copenhagen has taught us that good intentions are not enough. the european union will not be fully effective if it sets out a framework for action alone. europe should give developing countries real support by encouraging ambitious community emission targets. secondly, the european union must re-engage with the united states in a transatlantic leadership with other leading world powers. third, the eu should adopt a more rational approach to its co2 reduction strategy, with a view to reducing emissions while avoiding high adaptation costs. fourth, the european union should step up its efforts to build a functioning low-carbon economy. commissioner, the question is simple: is europe in a climate for such change?
mr president, the summit in córdoba will be a test for all of us, european institutions and member states. it should demonstrate clear european commitment to considering a fully fledged political and operational strategy that would, in addressing roma issues, go beyond obvious human rights perspectives, fundamental as they are, towards real economic and social inclusion. we need an integrated strategy policy and an action plan cutting across all areas relevant to economic and social belonging. much has been done and achieved but, without any doubt, there is still a long journey ahead of us. we need the commission, parliament, the member states but also, as minister lópez garrido said, local and regional authorities working hand in hand. we expect from the commission a clear allocation of the responsibilities for this matter and effective coordination between all relevant services. we expect the eur 5 million pilot project currently implemented by the commission to pave the way for efficient and effective solutions in the areas that matter most: early childhood education and economic inclusion, and provide progress on policy learning and evaluation. we appreciate the commission’ efforts, especially those by the regional policy dg, and we encourage the commission to further enhance local and regional involvement in practical action strengthening the economic inclusion of roma society. in parliament, many colleagues across the political groups have already demonstrated their involvement, but our duty is to put much greater political power into this issue. roma inclusion would give us a chance to move forward towards making the european labour market truly inclusive. it would give us a chance to move forward in addressing european demographic challenges. so let me conclude by saying that we must treat the córdoba summit as a last call for real inclusion of the roma.
member of the commission. - madam member, i myself referred to one of the major challenges, beyond mobility, in the first sentence of my speech just now, which was quite short as the rule requires, namely demography. i think we would all be well served by a debate and comparisons, even if the question of family or demographic policy is not one of the main european responsibilities, on this subject which affects all european countries with varying degrees of intensity. our continent is probably one of the few continents in the world that will see its population decline if birth rates do not recover, compared to other continents. it is in this extremely serious context that we have to work on the question of pensions and the management of dependence, madam member, beyond the question of pensions themselves. that is why i believe that this green paper is a good tool at the right time. you won't have to wait long. we are working on it and we will be putting the finishing touches to all these questions, taking into account what is the national responsibility in terms of pension schemes and what can be done at european level, particularly with regard to all these private pension funds and their multiplication on european markets. in any case, all these questions - none of them will be left out - will be part of the questions we will be asking, proposing a number of ways or directions, in the green paper i have indicated to you and which will be published in a few months.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr séan kelly is asking a question which relates to a tragic event, the one which has affected madeira and the atlantic coast, my country in particular, with several dozen deaths. i would naturally like to express our solidarity with all the victims, and my colleague, commissioner hahn, has visited the two places i have just mentioned. here again, we are faced with a global challenge which is climate change, and we will see more and more of these natural disasters, just as we will continue to see disasters which are not natural and which can have serious consequences for the lives of men and women, for nature and for the economy. i think of industrial disasters, fires, maritime disasters, for example. it is a subject on which i have been personally engaged for a very long time. here in this house, in 1999, as a newly appointed commissioner for regional policy, i had to answer to greek colleagues who were concerned about the consequences of the earthquakes that had just occurred in their country. i proposed at the time, firstly, the creation of a solidarity fund and, secondly, the creation of a european civil protection force. it was not until 2002 and the major floods in germany, austria and slovakia that the commission, with the support of parliament and the council, was able to set up the solidarity fund in three months to provide aid in madeira and on the atlantic coast, as it has done in several major disasters since 2002. my colleague georgieva is working with mrs ashton on the establishment of the european civil protection force, and i hope that we will not have to wait for another disaster to pool our responses and our aid under the same european flag in disasters such as those in haiti or the tsunami. the question raised concerns insurance, because not everything is linked to uninsurable public assets as the solidarity fund can cover. i think there's progress to be made on the risks that can be covered by insurance. the 2009 white paper on adaptation to climate change suggests, in the absence of insurance, publicly supported insurance schemes. in the follow-up to this white paper i want to examine the role of insurance products in complementing these measures. i intend to start with a benchmarking exercise: i have asked my services to look at what exists in the various member states. in situations where the impact could be cross-border it might even be appropriate to promote insurance schemes with a european rather than a national scope. i am well aware, mr kelly, of the complexity of this subject. i will be doing this work in consultation with all the stakeholders, with the insurance companies, with the member states, with the experts, to exchange best practice and set priorities at the right level. i am convinced that we can do more to protect european citizens in the face of the increase in these natural disasters. that is why i want to do this extremely operational work of screening, of benchmarking the different insurance systems existing in the 27 member states against natural disasters.
member of the commission. - this 'floods' directive dates from 2007. there was also a commission communication in 2009 on the prevention of natural and man-made disasters in general. mr kelly, you speak of fairly recent directives, but these directives are like all the others, from the moment they are operational: the commission must check - and it will do so - how the member states are applying or not applying these directives. when we talk about floods, we have seen it in france and we can see it in your country, the consequences, in terms of land use, of the lack of precautions, of building in flood-prone areas are obvious. the commission will act in this area as in all others, by looking at what the member states are doing or not doing, and by taking appropriate measures, including infringements, to ensure that these directives are applied.
i'm not going to let you do this. i would like to ask you something else. we are talking about insurance, and i think that when disasters occur, two different types of action are needed. i would like to ask you in this connection the following question: should not a crisis response centre be set up in europe more quickly? we don't have a single center that responds to disaster situations. secondly, should we not make a greater effort to develop greater civilian capabilities (for example, we do not have transport planes)? so, in addition to insurance, you need a single center and you need more capacity to help.
member of the commission. - i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in a position to do so. what i am saying is that cultural monuments such as the acropolis and other monuments in greece and other member states are a source of inspiration and intercultural richness, and just today the european commission has adopted a new system for marking the major cultural monuments of the european union, including the acropolis. i think that speaks for itself in terms of how europe thinks about these monuments.
member of the commission. − the commission fully acknowledges the important role of grass-root sport within european society. the 2007 white paper on sport therefore focused on the societal aspects of sport and proposed a number of actions, including the promotion of health-enhancing physical activity or sport’s educational role of social inclusion in and through sport and of volunteering in sport, which have been or are currently being implemented. similarly the new eu competence for sport enshrined in article 165 highlights the sector’s specific nature, its social and educational function and its structures based on voluntary activity. it thereby provides the framework for future eu action and gives direction for promoting sport across the eu and for developing the european dimension in sport. the commission intends to propose initiatives for implementing the lisbon treaty in the field of sport later this year. that will take account of the need to strengthen the grass-root sports sector. the honourable member also rightly points out that grass-root sports organisations face challenges in the current economic climate. the ongoing eu study on internal market barriers to sports funding, which was announced in the white paper and which focuses on grass-root sports funding, addresses such challenges. the study aims to describe the key sources of financing, identify financing models in different member states and for different sports disciplines and to analyse the eu regulatory environment and national policies that have an impact on sports funding. finally, the study should outline efficient business models that are also able to meet future challenges, such as the impact of the economic crisis on public sector budgets or on sponsorship, and identify means of strengthening the development of grass-root sport across the european union. the consultations on funding for grass-root sport referred to by the honourable member were carried out within the framework of this study. the initial results of these consultations were presented to interested stakeholders at a conference on sustainable funding models for grass-root sport in the internal market, organised by the study contractor on 16 february in brussels. the outcomes of the conference will soon be published on the website of the internal market and services directorate-general.
member of the commission. − indeed, we intend to promote communication on sport this summer. so, we will have the communication before the summer recess. that should provide the framework for enhanced cooperation, a new agenda for sport at eu level and also a draft decision for a two-year eu sport programme for 2012 and 2013. of course, in the mean time, as you very well know, we have the ongoing sport actions in 2009, 2010 and 2011, focusing on grass-root sport and the social aspect of sport. actions for 2009 have already been approved and they are to be enforced this year. we are about to approve the action for 2010, which will also be ready in a couple of months. of course, as you very well know, unfortunately the budget for 2010 has been cut from eur 6 million to eur 3 million. according to the budget that we have for 2011, we have new actions and new testing material in order to formulate our programme for 2012 and 2013.
mr. chairman, please! i'm not going to let you get away with this. i would like to thank you very much for the declaration on the creation of a new strategy in the field of sport, but i also wanted to put forward an idea related to what is also being discussed by the committee on culture, which is related to the new key competences, which today can include sports skills, knowledge of culture, knowledge of the european union. the question is, does the commissioner envisage including this new very important aspect of the key skills of young people across the european union, to also highlight and emphasise the sports issues and the issues of knowledge about europe and knowledge about culture, which are so important in building a european identity?
vice-president of the commission. − firstly, on the operators and social questions. we can look at this in depth and analyse the situation because, of course, if we have more competition and more intensive traffic, we should address very seriously these social aspects as well. we have various regulations already in place concerning, for instance, pilots in aviation. you will know of the driving time directive in road transport, and some similar control over the driving time should be applied to all drivers, including locomotive drivers. so i think that we should look very seriously at this issue. there is always national legislation as well, and these are primarily questions for national legislation also, but that is a question we should certainly look at. i said that in 2008 the commission had communicated a reasoned opinion to belgium on the lack of safeguards to guarantee the independence of the infrastructure manager from rail undertakings in the exercise of essential functions, track allocation and charging. the belgian authorities have replied to this and the commission services are analysing this reply with a view to proposing a follow-up. but, returning to the rail accident, this was a tragic event which should have been avoided, but never in the world will there be absolutely zero accidents. this is a very complex question. i suppose the investigation will give us concrete answers as to what the causes of the accident were and in many cases this is a tragic combination of several factors, including human factors. from the 19th century onwards, it has been clear that a red light is a signal to stop. so it does not mean that we can find one very simple answer as to why this accident happened.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. i think we should learn from this tragedy. of course, a very detailed procedure will explain whether it was a human factor, or maybe a hardware issue, or maybe a lack of system. what is the time horizon for the rtms to come into force and do you think that, with the liberalisation of rail transport (both passenger and freight), a system of very clear verification of the quality of services and equipment should not be excluded from national systems?
vice-president of the commission. − the plan is to deploy the ertms system on main european railway networks before 2015, so there is a date where we think that this deployment plan will be implemented, but this does not mean that every line, especially regional lines, will be equipped with such high-level equipment, so there must always be other systems as well. this deployment plan exists, but it is a costly operation and a big investment. a european system of measuring quality is a good idea. when i express the idea of developing transport as a whole as an entity for europe, under the possible name of the european single transport area, then of course this means that we must also harmonise quality requirements and the quality of services must be maintained at a very high level.
vice-president of the commission. − of course, we have had a directive since january 2001, when the council and parliament adopted the current directive on summer time in the european union. this directive harmonises the calendar of the application of summer time in the eu. this is the ninth directive on the issue since 1980 when the first summer time directive was adopted. in accordance with the above directives, in 2007 the commission presented a report on the impact of the current summer time regime. the report concluded that, on the basis of the information placed at the disposal of the commission, the summer time regime has no negative impact and generated some energy savings. the current arrangements do not constitute any subject of concern in the member states of the european union. no member state has required or has, since the report was published, ever required a modification of the current arrangements. the honourable member could hardly find a more suitable person to answer this question, not because i am responsible for transport but because i was in the estonian government which did exactly what is behind your question. first, in 1999, from 2000 we abolished turning the clock. we changed this regime and maintained one time regime. in 2002 we turned back and again introduced summer time. so, i have very personal experience of this. two unpleasant things happened, which is why this step made in 2000 became extremely unpopular. one thing was that the daylight disappears in the evening. morning will be bright but you have nothing to do with this sunlight in the morning. in the evening it will get dark too soon and, if you come home from work and want to have some exercise or go out with children, it is already evening. people did not like this at all. secondly, of course, there was a total confusion about timetables and schedule – as you can imagine – relating to all travel arrangements to other countries. so we restored the present summer time regime, turning the clock twice a year. people are happy and this question has not been raised again.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i have a doubt about this because some countries in europe, like england, use different times than continental europe, and that lack of change doesn't bother them. but would not the standardization of time across europe to one zone be beneficial for transport only?
in my country, there's a saying, a saying that if one person tells you that you're drunk, you can ignore it, but if five people tell you that you're drunk, you better go to bed, go to sleep. if only one or two countries had not introduced this first package, we could be imposing sanctions and thunder in this room today, but if twenty or so countries have not introduced this package, then perhaps this package - to put it mildly - is not the best. maybe that's the reason, that's the problem. if i hear a few words of serious criticism from our british colleague, and it is this country that has introduced this package, then one can ask whether its application is really all right. of course there is another side to the coin - in the context of the recent accidents, which were also discussed here two hours ago, during the questions to the commission - the issue is one of safety. in this respect, safety is indeed enhanced. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railways are not used as a means of transport. such a country is my own country, poland, for example, which has suffered a kind of collapse in railway financing in the last two years, with all its consequences. in conclusion, i think that very easy definitions, very easy recipes are by definition suspect.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i wish to thank the honourable members for their remarks. we will have ample opportunity to discuss the recasting of the first railway package. i just want to reply to some remarks. first, information about the 21 member states and the concrete reasons why the reasoned opinion was sent is public information, so anybody who wants can get that information. this first railway package has very good intentions: to remove barriers and to improve the conditions for better functioning of transport. we will pursue the same goal with the recasting of the package. the problem is not that the package was bad, but that implementation that was insufficient. barriers still exist and resistance to removing barriers is still very strong. we must change the old system of state-owned monopolies with great privileges and no interoperability. we must change that system and improve interoperability. that is the purpose of developing this railway reform. the problem is precisely that this has not been completed. we must, of course, always balance all the steps taken with quality control. that is also where the railway package has ideas, such as on how to strengthen the role of regulatory agencies. the problem is that the regulatory agencies remain very mixed in with the interests of state-owned companies. you cannot then expect a high level of quality control. these issues must and will be addressed in the recasting of the railway package, and perhaps in other strategic documents as well. adequate financing remains a very big problem, and we need to find innovative ways to finance the bottlenecks. many members mentioned the need for investment. we must combine all possible tools and find new tools to pinpoint resources for investment in railways, including modern traffic management systems, booking systems for buying tickets in the same way as for air transport, and also better connect eastern europe to western europe, which is another substantial problem. the detailed list of all the elements in the process of preparing this recast railway package is very long. i would be very happy to come back to you with concrete proposals once we have the concrete legislative documents.
in writing. the problem of the proper functioning of the railway market in the new member states, and thus a factor limiting market liberalisation, is the inadequate financing of the railways, i.e. the lack of sufficient funds to maintain the railway infrastructure (resulting in high rates of access to it and consequently limiting the competitiveness of this transport sector due to the high transport costs), and the under-financing of public service activities, which results in the indebtedness of the passenger transport companies providing these services while limiting investment possibilities, for example, for new rolling stock. in the context of proper regulation of the european railway market, there is a need to strengthen national market regulators. by empowerment i mean increasing their independence, efficiency, staffing levels, etc. it also seems essential to establish a european market regulator to monitor the proper performance of the functions assigned to national regulators and to report on irregularities directly to the european commission.
in writing. dear members, the acta (anti-counterfeiting trade agreement) currently being negotiated by the european commission goes beyond the principle of proportionality, which states that the union's action does not go beyond what is necessary to achieve the objectives of the treaty. the chapter on the internet is particularly worrying. the agreement reportedly contains provisions that could restrict freedom of expression on the one hand and commercial activity on the internet on the other. this would reportedly include the introduction of liability for content uploaded by internet providers and criminal penalties for downloading files for private use. i use the word 'similarly' because the information on the contract is not from official sources but only from rumours and leaks, and the commission does not keep parliament informed of the progress of the negotiations. the treaty of lisbon already provides for such a procedure. moreover, parliament's consent, expressed by a majority of its votes, is necessary for the council to reach an agreement. the new treaty also introduces a competence to take measures in the field of intellectual property, which falls equally to the parliament and the council. i therefore join the voice of meps who are calling for more transparency in the negotiations and believe that interinstitutional cooperation on acta should confirm that all the institutions are taking the new treaty seriously. not yet, it's not.
madam president, please! a high-ranking russian military official has stated that if russia had the mistral, the invasion of georgia would take only a few minutes. at the same time, france is selling the mistral to russia, even though sarkozy's plan has not been implemented. at the same time, france is supporting the nord pipeline. it is difficult to talk about european security if we shy away from discussing the situation on the eastern border of the european union, and that is what happened - and i say this with great regret to the chairman of the subcommittee on defence - during the whole of the report's work. they tried to avoid talking about things like the "west 2009" maneuvers, they tried not to talk about it as if the security and defence policy, the common policy of the european union that we are supposed to create, was the policy of only a few big countries. there was a lot of talk about what was happening far away on the antipodes, about what was happening in almost every corner of the globe, while at all costs (and this was the attitude of many members) there was an attempt to escape from the real problems on the eastern border of the union. it was a unique blend of a kind of european megalomania with the disregard of the interests of some member states. that is why we will not support this report, but that is also my request to the president. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i welcome the high representative, vice-president, and chair of the foreign affairs council under those three hats. she has three hats. our reports refer to the old times. your office, baroness ashton, was meant to be a new era, so i will refer to the new era. you are representing a newborn office, an institution just born, which is having a difficult childhood. it is a hybrid with an electric engine of community method and a diesel engine of intergovernmental method. it is an orphan, whose supposed parents, member states, council, commission, look at it with a certain suspicion and distance. parliament is ready to fill the gap of parenthood. at this early stage there are risks that this service being torn apart by diverging institutional rivalries and interests. our parliament was and is the strong proponent of strong eu foreign policy. you can count on us. please look at parliament as your ally, maybe also as an honest broker among those who would be tempted to see only one hat on your head and not all three of them. parliament would expect the new institution like others to be linked with us by an interinstitutional agreement clearly setting out the rules of cooperation. we intend to codecide, as the treaty provides for, on financial and staff regulations in the spirit of the integral eeas, not torn-apart eas. please consider strengthening your office in terms of competence and political weight by installing deputies to your office – kind of ‘vice-ministers’, including parliamentary ones. that would solve the problem that the day only has 24 hours, the problem which cannot be otherwise solved. you are needed everywhere and we would like you to multiply your possibilities to act on our behalf and on behalf of the union.
mr. chairman, please! the draft resolution on the common security and defence policy proposed by parliament aims, among other things, at the creation of military structures within the european union. i call for the establishment of a special defence council and a military operations centre of the union. these instruments are designed to make the union a global player in the field of military affairs. it should be noted that of the 27 member countries of the european union, 21 are members of nato, only 6 are not, and most of them are neutral. the fundamental question therefore arises: is the proposed project aimed at developing several eu countries, or is it a serious step towards building a separate military bloc to compete with the north atlantic treaty? even in the medium term, dual membership of both organisations cannot be maintained. the vote on this report today will therefore de facto destroy the civilian character of the union, will be a red card to nato and the beginning of the construction of an alternative military bloc.
mr. president, madam president, i have to go. i would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that we can debate with you today the common foreign and security policy and the common defence policy. despite a few voices, i am sure that the majority of this house wishes you well and wishes you to build a common foreign policy and a professional external action service, a service in which you will be able to use the best diplomats from all the member states of the european union. we are discussing the common security and defence policy today, based on a very good report by my chief of staff in the security and defence subcommittee, mr danjean. the union must of course build the foundations of a common security and defence policy. we have many challenges to face, not just conflicts, but also natural disasters, terrorist threats and so on. so we need to strengthen our operational capabilities. the union must look after its own security, but also be proactive in the face of global challenges. and we can't do that without working well with our allies on the other side of the atlantic. i think that not only because most of the countries of the union are members of nato, but because of these challenges, everyone expects you to be able to establish a good dialogue and build a coherent cooperation between the european union and nato. to end on a humorous note, i would like to express the hope that you, baroness, have already sent your phone number not only to henry kissinger, but also to hillary clinton.
mr. president, madam president, i have to go. i think i can express the view of everyone in this chamber that foreign policy is one of the most important challenges facing the european union and we would like to see the european union, under your presidency, become the de facto regulator of foreign policy in the world. i'm going to focus on two elements. the first is the political situation in the middle east. we expect you to be clear on your counterterrorism strategy. we are particularly looking forward to the situation, particularly in afghanistan, as a way out. here i would like to point out the use of all instruments, including mainly civilian elements of the operation in the form of the modernization of this country, which is today destroyed by a permanent 30-year war. i also think that political commitment to the reconstruction of afghanistan is one of the key elements of stabilizing that country. the other element is iran, which today plays a key role in the foreign policy of that region. i think that the commitment to the fight against nuclear proliferation is one of the key tasks that you also have to face. we wish you great success here and good correlation with american politics. i think the political situation in afghanistan, pakistan, india and iran is critical from the standpoint of global security policy. that's why your role in this is invaluable.
the main message of the report by mr albertinis, whom i congratulate on this report, and mr danjean, is that of a coherent and effective policy. i would like to point out that the execution of these tasks is of course also a personal side. the european external action service, which appears in the report, although it is for 2008 - it is a pity that it is not for 2009 - is here the marker that will test how we really want to accomplish the tasks that mrs ashton's office faces. i think that the geographical balance that we are seeking and the role of the european parliament and the national parliaments in this process are very important here. clear criteria for recruitment, the role of the european parliament in shaping this service - this is a task that will be particularly evaluated in this house. we would like to appeal to make this process of creation clear, to make it understandable also for us, as representatives of the individual voters who make up this european union.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! i have to say that i suspect that the 2008 annual report on the cfsp will not generate the same excitement as our debate on this subject next year. i hope that next year we will know what the european external action service looks like. and this new service will in turn have a major impact on the shape of european foreign policy. the european union has ambitions to be a global player. that's good, but these ambitions won't be easy to achieve. we've got a lot of work to do. the european institutions must agree on the echr. it's not going to be an easy task, but without it, we can't improve our foreign policy. we should return to the basic values of the european union. and build our foreign policy on them. we must always remember solidarity, equality, uniform standards, human and civil rights. we must remember the internal balance, that we must defend the interests of all the members of the union, which are not mutually exclusive. one of the key issues is to improve coordination between the community institutions and the member states significantly. particular national interests should not affect our cohesion, our community. paradoxically, even those states that claim to be the driving force behind european integration sometimes act against the collective interests of the union. let's change that.
in writing. the world situation presents new challenges for the eu's foreign policy and requires a broader understanding of security issues. new powers are emerging that are coming into play in global politics in a variety of areas. this calls for a global dialogue and new rules for cooperation and division of roles. the enormous role that nato and the usa will play in world security must be complemented by the creation of special mobile forces with the union to fight all kinds of natural disasters, cataclysms. the union will be seen not only as an institution that fights for democracy and human rights, but also as an institution that comes to the rescue in times of need. other forms of threats are clearly increasing, and energy and food security are becoming important. it seems necessary to develop a concept for the functioning of the eu's external service, defining the areas of the community and the rules for its establishment, division of roles and cooperation with the diplomacy of the member states. what is the role of the various eu institutions? the lack of an early definition of the division of roles and responsibilities can cause misunderstandings between the various institutions and leaders within the union and between the eu and the member states. the first experience of the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy and the widespread expectation of his activity, his presence in various places, make it necessary to consider the creation of the function of his deputies, or to include more other commissioners, of whom we have such a wide range, in these areas of activity.
in writing. i would like to make a few comments on the european security strategy and the common security and defence policy. the european parliament's draft resolution correctly defines the main threats and challenges facing europe. the problem is that we can't answer them well enough, or at least not always quickly enough. there are three main weaknesses, the overcoming of which would radically improve the effectiveness of the common security and defence policy. the first weakness is the lack of determination on the part of all the countries making up the european union to pursue a common policy, rather than merely declaring its need. secondly, there is a lack of coordination between the various european institutions. there is no crisis response centre at union level. finally, and thirdly, the military and civilian capabilities of the union, and not just those of individual states, are too small. air transport problems, for example, are already commonplace, and this is essential for rapid response in emergency situations. only progress in these three areas would improve the effectiveness of the common security and defence policy.
the european union clearly needs a new strategy to help and shape our response to the economic and financial crisis. an important element of the strategy should be to strengthen the free movement of people, and this applies to all groups: workers, entrepreneurs, scientists, students and even pensioners, and this is enshrined in our resolution. it is also good to put more emphasis on supporting small and medium-sized enterprises. without the development of such companies, the situation in the union will not improve. some people think that the strategy does not mention cohesion policy enough. i do not know if that is the case, because we do have a record of this fundamental importance of cohesion policy for the future of the union. but i know that if it's not implemented, then no strategy will make it better.
the new eu strategy is in fact the younger brother of the lisbon strategy. if he follows the example of his older brother, he will fail the exam and even fail to finish his university studies. at the same time that the leaders of the european union were talking about the need to adopt the lisbon strategy, in reality the member states were restricting the free movement of workers and services. the new strategy is obviously a little bit better than the version of a few months ago, where there was no mention of consistency at all. but it's more of a wish concert for now. we will review this strategy in the seven-year budget of the european union from 2014. i hope that this will be a strategy that does not serve the domination of the new european union by the countries of the old union.
surely judge goldstone cannot be the sèvres of objectivity. i voted against this report because i have the impression that it tries to present the situation in the middle east as a black and white film, where israel is the black character and the black hero. it's definitely more complicated than that. i think we should avoid such one-sided, one-sided judgments. i myself, and i believe the president, have been to the town of sderot, which was hit by several hundred shells, as mr takkula said recently, by hamas fighters. i think that this report is not something that the european parliament will particularly boast about in the future.
i thank my colleagues very much for the preparation of this resolution and its adoption by the european parliament. by voting in favour of this resolution, we have expressed our support for and defence of fundamental civil rights and freedoms, including the rights of national minorities. it is also an initiative to defend the basic principles of democracy and tolerance that are the foundation of europe. i welcome the official position of parliament on this matter, which supports the polish minority in belarus. i would also like to point out that the member states of the european union should set an example for other countries, our neighbours, and ensure that the rights of national minorities in our member states are fully respected.
i voted for the belarus resolution. we demand the legalization of the union of poles in belarus led by angelica borys. we express our solidarity with all belarusian citizens who cannot fully enjoy their civil rights. yesterday i received a letter from the belarusian ambassador to poland. he expressed concern at the intentions of the members of the european parliament who wanted to adopt this resolution. in his opinion, these intentions were the result of an unobjective presentation of the situation in the polish media. that's not true. the intentions behind this resolution go much deeper. it is respect for basic civil rights, respect for minority rights and ensuring minimum standards, and consequently the good of both belarus and the belarusians.
i voted for this resolution because as the representative of my constituents i cannot agree to anything being agreed behind their backs and against their will. the treaty of lisbon has given the european parliament new powers, and the european parliament should therefore be able to stand guard over the rights of citizens. i agree with the authors of the resolution who criticise the secrecy of the commission's negotiations on the acta agreement and the lack of cooperation with the european parliament in this respect. these are actions targeting the law in force in the union on public access to information on the activities of public authorities and also restricting the right to privacy. it is therefore right that the european parliament has taken up the issue of transparency in the european commission's negotiations and the fight against counterfeiting.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? over the past two decades, the european union (eu) has been successful on many fronts, from three ambitious enlargements to the introduction of the single currency, the euro. eu citizens work less than americans and japanese (10% of hours per year), and retire earlier. in times of crisis, maintaining these gains at the current level is not easy, and i welcome the strong action of the european council (ec) and the european commission (ec) to establish a comprehensive economic strategy 'europe 2020'. at the same time, ahead of the erc summits in march and june this year, which will give the strategy its final shape, there are a number of doubts about the ec document presented on 3 march this year. first, what data will be used to determine the national targets for each eu-27 country? what are the penalties or rewards for countries that successively fail or fail to meet the obligations imposed by the strategy? and finally, what role is reserved for the european parliament in the whole process, since the europe 2020 strategy has so far been a pilot project of the ec and the ec alone? we need to find answers to these questions before the june summit. otherwise, to quote president barroso, the union will miss its moment of truth.
in writing. − i would like to draw attention to the contradiction between the objectives of the 2020 strategy and the effects that will result from the proposed changes in priorities in the budget for the years 2014 to 2020. one of the objectives is to improve the environment. the change in budget priorities suggests a reduction in cap spending this means that agriculture in 2020 will have to be highly productive or even industrial, i.e. environmentally friendly, and this means that the eu would have to move away from the european model of agriculture, which is particularly concerned with the environment, landscape, biodiversity, animal welfare, sustainable development and the socio-cultural values of the rural environment. the old wisdom of life is that the best is the enemy of the good. let's make sure that we're taking care of the environment, and not damaging it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint resolution rc-b7-0151/2010 of the european parliament. the eu 2020 strategy aims to set new goals not only in policy action but also in thinking. to overcome the crisis with a strong hand, we must create common instruments and mechanisms that not only mitigate the effects of the current economic situation, but also allow us to respond to them in the future and even prevent them. the commission, parliament and all the eu institutions should remember that their priority is to pursue the common good of the citizens of europe. it is their problems that are most important to us, and it is to them that we should give advice, help and action. in the context of the crisis, problems such as unemployment, poverty and social exclusion are commonplace. if we are to build a modern, innovative, growth-oriented and cohesive europe today, we must guarantee our citizens a sense of security in the future. i am disappointed that agriculture was left out of the original proposals for the eu 2020 strategy. economic recovery and environmental policy objectives are part of the agricultural policy. without this policy in this strategy, and every strategy that follows, we have no chance of achieving our goals, not only in these areas but in many others as well.
in writing. - human rights must be respected by all parties to the middle east conflict. any suspicion of human rights violations by either side should be verified. but there must be a symmetrical approach to all sides of the conflict. the goldstone report is an emotional and controversial document. he faced numerous allegations of bias. it was also pointed out that it does not treat all the factors that led to the conflict equally. but the international community cannot turn its back on this conflict. goldstone's recommendations include the need for international investigations into alleged crimes committed by all parties to the conflict. the realities of the middle east conflict call into question the possibility of this requirement. there is a serious danger that the european parliament will not be able to monitor the actions of hamas, but only those of the israeli side. in view of these circumstances, i have decided to vote against the adoption of the joint resolution in the final vote.
in writing. - i believe that the joint resolution on the implementation of the goldstone recommendations on israel and palestine does not fully reflect the views expressed by meps during the debate in brussels on 24 february. the resolution does not adequately reflect the position of the majority of the political groups which co-authored the document. the goldstone report, to which the resolution refers, is biased and does not treat all the factors that led to the conflict equally. moreover, the joint resolution does not mention the circumstances that led to it, nor does it mention the 8,000 attacks on israeli civilians by hamas and other armed groups. there is also no information on hamas's disregard for the ceasefire. article 7 of the said document clearly states that the european parliament will not be able to monitor the actions taken by hamas, but only those carried out by the israeli side. such a position undermines the credibility of the israeli judicial system as well as the israeli institutions, by undermining their ability to conduct investigations. that is why i voted against the joint resolution in the final vote.
in writing. - the european union, as a global player, must not only look to the well-being of its citizens, but also to the world. for this reason, the decisions taken by members of the european parliament should be embedded in a wider reality than the european one. voting on a resolution to implement the recommendations of judge goldstone's report before the report was adopted by the un is a mistake. apart from the fact that there was no time for debate on the report, there was no in-depth presentation of the report, taking into account the opposing arguments. in a situation where eu member states do not show the will to take coherent action on israel and palestine, the adoption of any resolution by the ep does not benefit the middle east peace process. for these reasons i abstained from voting on the european people's party resolution and voted against the joint resolution tabled by the other parties. my particular reservations were raised by paragraphs j and 10 of the joint resolution, which, while highlighting the tragedy of the people of gaza, fail to explain that this is an indirect effect of the governments of hamas, which is recognised by the international community as a terrorist organisation. furthermore, i cannot agree with paragraphs 2 and 4 of the resolution which call for the implementation of the goldstone recommendations, even though not all of them are correct.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint resolution rc-b7-0134/2010 of the european parliament. several months ago, the european parliament adopted a resolution calling on the belarusian authorities to end the use of the death penalty against their own citizens. today we are once again taking the floor on belarus, the violation of human rights and the principles of civil society. the european union has opened up to belarus. we have taken appropriate measures, such as joining the eastern partnership. the trust we placed in belarus was intended to initiate a transition to democracy and respect for citizens' rights. unfortunately, that's not what happened. the european union must therefore take a stronger stance in its relations with belarus and take effective action to ensure that minorities' rights are respected. i hope that the resolution will start the change towards what we want. otherwise, i hope the european union will review its approach to belarus and impose appropriate sanctions. any failure to do so will be evidence of our weakness.
in writing. − lack of freedom of speech, problems with registering political or even social organisations, use of state media for propaganda purposes are manifestations of the overly authoritarian functioning of the state. the union has reached out to belarus in the framework of the eastern partnership, which aims to strengthen democracy and the rule of law. the actions of the belarusian authorities do not comply with international standards on the treatment of opposition, non-governmental organisations and the protection of national minorities. it is important to be able to deal with a situation where the eu has to show its disapproval through concrete actions such as sanctions or visa restrictions, but at the same time it is impossible to isolate belarus from the rest of europe because it will hurt the public and not the authorities condemned by the union. it is necessary to show belarus how much it can benefit from cooperation with the eu and to make the provision that the degree to which belarus will comply with eu requirements will be reflected in the support that belarus can count on.
in writing. - i welcome the results of today's vote. we have adopted a resolution condemning the recent repression of the polish minority in belarus. acceptance of a document by acclamation has a special ring to it. it is the voice of the whole parliament, of all the political groups, of the representatives of the 27 member states of the european union. i cannot imagine belarus enjoying the benefits of the eastern partnership without first re-legalizing the union of poles in belarus and returning its property to it, and without releasing political prisoners such as andrei bandarenko, ivan mikhailov and artyom dubski. we sent a clear signal to belarus today. now we're waiting for an answer.
in writing. − the single euro payments area (sepa) is a concept whose introduction will make life easier for millions of europeans. no matter which member state you are a national of, you will be able to make payments to a person or company from another member state easily, quickly and cheaply, at the same cost as within your own country. this will increase competition between banks in the online banking era, which will benefit customers. the introduction of sepa is another step towards the realisation of one of the four fundamental freedoms of the single market, namely the free movement of capital. most importantly, sepa will bring the euro area countries closer economically to the countries that are members of the european union but not of the euro area and to the rest of the european economic area. i therefore fully support the european parliament's resolution on the implementation of the single euro payments area (sepa). at the same time, i call on the european commission to give priority to the interests of retail customers of the banking system and to the security of the system when monitoring the work on the introduction of the sepa.
in writing. - in a resolution adopted, the european parliament explicitly called for greater transparency in the european commission's negotiations on the acta agreement. piracy and counterfeiting are a growing problem for the european economy and other economies around the world. developing economies are increasingly knowledge-based economies. we therefore need clear and effective rules to protect intellectual property rights that do not distort innovation and competition, do not unreasonably burden legitimate trade, and protect our privacy and fundamental rights such as freedom of expression. that is why the resolution adopted today does not call into question the very substance of the agreement. however, the negotiations conducted by the european commission are not open to the public. the european parliament, like the european citizens, is not kept informed of the progress of the negotiations. this lack of information is a cause for concern. we want more transparency from the european commission, we want to know now what commitments the european commission's negotiators are making on behalf of 500 million european union citizens.
mr. chairman, please! as the modern world develops, policies towards the arctic, which have been associated with extreme climatic conditions, polar bears, and endless ice fields, are beginning to take on a new dimension. the development of international trade and the increase in demand for natural resources have led to increased interest in this region. the rapid retreat of the arctic ice cap is opening up new opportunities for exploitation in the region. the arctic on the periphery is becoming a focus for countries looking for new shipping routes, inexhaustible natural resources and fish stocks. but we know all that. the question is how the eu should react to the nervous preparations for a sort of invasion of the arctic that have been going on for a long time in russia, the us, canada or norway? the first thing to do is to address the unregulated legal status of the arctic region. the diplomatic policy pursued so far should lead to a global agreement guaranteeing the fair distribution of potential territorial gains. the lack of regulation could cause a flashpoint of global proportions. systematic and coordinated action is therefore needed to respond to the rapidly emerging challenges. research infrastructure, the development of multilateral arctic management based on the un convention and the involvement of the local arctic population are just some of the elements that must be included in a future european arctic strategy aimed at maintaining a balance between the protection of the natural environment and the sustainable use of its resources.
madam president! who's gonna take control of the arctic? that's one of the headlines i found when i was looking through this. it's a very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, in this respect, the question posed by the vice-president seems very well put. how can the european union be a responsible player in the arctic? i stress to those responsible. i therefore believe that this debate in the european parliament is useful and good, because it is being held here for the second time as a result of the first and present communication from the council to the parliament, from the commission to the council and from the european parliament. the arctic is a region that is not governed by international law, and the great interest in the arctic is, on the one hand (as already emphasised), the result of climate change, but on the other hand also the increasingly recognised and eagerly exploited potential for raw materials, especially energy resources, gas, but also natural resources such as fish. of course, there are risks involved: for the environment, from the exploitation of resources and fisheries, but also for the indigenous population, which we must also take into account in particular. and also the opening of this seaway, because of the changes in this area, has a huge impact on how people look at the arctic. so are attempts to divide fact by facts, even symbolically by the flag. i would like to say that it should be noted that the five arctic countries are not particularly interested in legal regulation, but the union should be an important actor in this part of the world, not just by its presence but above all by its activity and knowledge. we need to build mutual trust, and we can also build that mutual trust through a regulatory initiative, like the arctic charter.
in writing. the specter is circling over the arctic. the specter of global warming. melting ice has a crucial impact not only on nature but also on social relations, economics and politics. this ice shelf, larger than germany, italy and france combined, is home to such resources as oil and gas, in addition to those already exploited. each year, the thinner ice caps lose their ability to protect the deposits from drilling. it's going to be a race. madness on the scale of the 19th century gold rush. the european union must take a clear position on this issue. a common eu arctic policy is needed, particularly with regard to the exploitation of new resources, environmental risks and new shipping opportunities. the arctic is part of the territory of three eu countries: denmark, finland and sweden, and the applicant iceland. we must remember that this is a new situation for the people of the far north, and for the fauna and flora as well. arctic people are aware of the growing influence of external social, economic and political factors on their lives. our task is to help local communities to adapt to their new environment, and to protect their culture and languages. just as citizens are at the heart of the union's policies, so too must the arctic be governed by people.
in writing. – the arctic has been long absent from our agenda, but now it is once again drawing attention of politicians and academics. the growing concern over the region is a consequence of climate change causing the melting of the arctic ice cap. not getting involved in the dispute over the speed and extend of this process, it is widely assumed that it will eventually open up new possibility for natural resources exploration and new maritime routes. we all agree that environmental consequences of this process will be profound, what i would like to draw attention of this house and the eu as whole to though, is its political and indeed security dimension. the cold war showed us how strategically important the arctic is. we have witnessed economic, political, even military rivalry in this region. for its positive future there is a clear need for a joint international effort, in which eu should play an active role. there is a need to find a balance between economic exploitation of the region and its ecosystem, but there is also a need to inter alia protect the existing legal regime governing the arctic, to name just this one issue.
the tragic death of cuban prisoner of conscience orlando zapata is further proof that the castro brothers' regime is ignoring the international community's calls to stop human rights violations by quietly purging those who demand freedom and democracy. today, this tragedy, this tragic death, has a symbolic meaning it is a desperate cry for help and effective action, especially by international politicians and decision-makers who, in building relations with the cuban authorities, do not want to talk to the opposition and silence the voice of representatives of civil society in cuba. we must act together as soon as possible to send and put pressure on the castro regime and demand the immediate release of those who are serving long prison sentences for their views. in recent years, the european union has sought to soften its stance, even lifting diplomatic sanctions against cuba in the hope that this would encourage the authorities to respect democratic standards. unfortunately, the tragic death of orlando zapatta shows that such a policy is naive, ineffective and clearly should not be continued. tomorrow we will vote on the resolution that concludes today's debate. this should be a clear signal of our opposition to the violation of human rights, the inhumane treatment of political prisoners and the lack of respect for basic civil liberties in cuba. we have to show solidarity with the cubans. we have to be the voice of those who don't have a voice in cuba right now. (laughter)
i think we can all agree in this room that the corrupt communist dictatorship is making it impossible for any positive change to take place in cuba. the castro brothers' police state is ruining the island's economy, destroying the freedom of its citizens, and robbing many cubans of the hope of a decent life. the future of cuba is, of course, in the hands of the cuban people themselves, but the european union can play an active role in this. we must demand the release of all political prisoners. in fact, this should be the first condition of any dialogue with cuba. we need to support the work of ngos, promote respect for human rights and promote access to independent media, including the internet. promoting democratic change is an area where transatlantic ties can also play a very important role. that's why we should work closely with washington. together, we can develop a long-term strategy for cuba that does not start with blind acceptance of the status quo, but with a far-reaching vision of democratic and economic reconstruction. (laughter)
madam president! we remember fidel castro's famous cry, "socialism or death". today, we can safely say that the only thing left of that code is death. proof of this is the bringing of the cuban prisoner and patriot orlando zapata. castro's dictatorial rule is a compromise of the idea of democratic socialism. what is happening in cuba is a disgrace to all those who carry out political activities under these leftist banners. i was also ashamed of the european union when former commissioner michel visited cuba with a proposal for development cooperation, carefully avoiding contact with the democratic opposition. we must stop this policy, the blindness to the reality of a country where there have never been free elections and where prisoners of conscience are serving long sentences in scandalous conditions. the spanish presidency is today proposing an open policy towards havana, but the unquestionable precondition for this policy must be the democratization of the cuban regime, the release of political prisoners, the opening of dialogue with society, the abolition of censorship, the restoration of civil liberties. we need to make this clear, open and hard to the cuban government. it's in their best interest. we know all the ways to break free of the people oppressed by dictators. there is the path that poland and south africa have taken - the path of dialogue and agreement. but there is also the path that romania took in the bloody overthrow of the regime. it's in everyone's interest to avoid that scenario. what path will havana take? the key to this solution lies in cuba. the european union's policy should actively contribute to the establishment of an area of freedom and democracy in cuba. this should be the position of the european parliament.
freedom in cuba will win. there will be democracy, there will be a free market economy. the european union cannot and probably does not want to help overthrow this regime, but it should be willing and able to help the cubans once this regime is changed. the experience of countries like poland, the czech republic, slovakia, hungary, shows that this can be done, that it can be done. we are serving with our experience and after castro's overthrow the european union should be serving with its experience and its money so that the situation described by one of the polish publicists, marek magierowski, does not happen, so that in the future the descendants of orlando zapata, who was so often mentioned here, will serve rum on the sidewalks and on the boulevards of havana to the descendants of castro.
acting president of the council. - madam president, i believe that the debate on the situation of prisoners of conscience in cuba, following the death of one of them, orlando zapata, shows that there is a very high degree of agreement between the members, between the political groups, as will be shown tomorrow - i am convinced of this - in the vote on the resolutions resulting from this debate, in a line which i believe also basically coincides with that maintained by the council, that maintained by the commission, and that maintained by all the institutions of the european union, which without a doubt strengthens the european union in this necessary dialogue with cuba and in the objective of advancing and improving the situation of the cuban people. i think we can agree that it is necessary to go out immediately and raise our voices wherever human rights are being violated. i think this is a fundamental principle that has been emphasized and that there should be no different standards for measuring it. the european union must come out clearly, immediately, when human rights are violated, because it is part of its own personality. in this case we are doing so with regard to cuba, saying and demanding that all prisoners of conscience who are still in cuba be released and that human rights be respected there. but not only that, we must work effectively, be effective, achieve results that improve welfare, living conditions, or that may even make possible the release of prisoners of conscience. in some cases it has been achieved, in some cases progress has been made, and progress has been made, among other things, because there is a fundamental element of the european union's policy towards cuba, which is the political dialogue with cuba, which has been resumed very recently - i think fortunately - and which has allowed, by ending the sanctions which were part of the european union's position and which made no sense whatsoever, and by resuming, as i say, that political dialogue, that at this moment we can do what we could not do since 2003: talk to the cuban authorities about prisoners of conscience. naturally, the evaluation to which some of the honourable members referred, the evaluation of the outcome of this dialogue, will have to be made periodically, an evaluation of this process will have to be made this year. many honourable members - i am referring, for example, to the speeches of mario mauro, luis yáñez and louis michel - have stressed the importance of this dialogue, this cooperation and the european union's capacity and moral authority to be able to have cuba as an interlocutor and to be able to make progress, which is what it is all about in the end. that is why we welcome the majority agreement reached in this house on the human rights situation in cuba, which i think can be summed up in one message: while we remain open to dialogue with cuba, the european union will continue to call for the release of all political prisoners there and for the respect of the civil and political rights of cuban citizens.
member of the commission. − madam president, i believe that this debate again has proven that, on issues of human rights and democracy, parliament is a lighthouse. the commission, too, will never tolerate the violation of human rights and democracy. so that means that it will stay a cornerstone of our policy, not only because of its strength, but we also believe that if you have strong views, you should make them known. as you know also, our basis for our work with cuba will lie in continuing the common position from 1996. this provides the basis and it is very clear that there should be some basic changes in human rights in cuba. at the same time, constructive dialogues that started in 2008 are giving also positive signs. i would not say that we have achieved major breakthroughs, but on a lot of issues there has been progress. i believe this is the way we need to continue. and we should also continue meeting civil society. the commission will follow the council conclusion that says that, when appropriate, meetings with the democratic opposition will form part of high level visits and we will seek for them actively.
in writing. orlando zapata tamayo, arrested in 2003 during a trial of opposition groups by the authorities, along with a group of seventy-five other dissidents, died after a two-month hunger strike in a cuban prison. i hope that the tragic death of one of cuba's most prominent political prisoners has reminded everyone that the human rights issue in cuba is unsolved. i fully agree with the demands of the epp and many human rights organisations that the governments of european countries should press the cuban authorities to release the political prisoners unconditionally, under the condition that they stop any attempts to improve eu-cuba relations. i believe that the european union's complete lifting of sanctions against cuba, without negotiating the actual release of all political prisoners, was premature. at the same time, i want to emphasize that the cuban people should not have to pay for the mistakes of the decision-makers. it is high time that this country took concrete steps towards democratization, the building of a civil society and respect for human rights, in particular freedom of expression and association. like the former spanish prime minister josé maría aznar, i believe that it is not acceptable that european politicians refuse to meet opposition representatives during their visits to cuba. we must find the means to support the development of a democratic system in cuba and to transmit the universal values of democracy and democratic society to the cuban people.
acting president of the council. - madam president, mr president-in-office, as you know, one of the union's key strategic priorities or objectives is energy security. in the european union - especially since many countries in the european union suffered very directly from the gas crisis that occurred between russia and ukraine at the beginning of 2009 - we place a high value on energy security and we certainly consider it one of the major objectives we have as the european union, an objective linked, of course, to the great objective of combating climate change. the strategy of the council and the presidency of the council of the union on energy and energy security is the need to go further towards differentiating suppliers and sources of energy and the distribution of that energy. there must therefore be a widening of the field of possibilities, avoiding oligopolies or excessive dependencies. some european countries have a clearly excessive energy dependence on russia, which also has to do with the fact that europe was divided for a long time in the 20th century and that interconnections between european countries in some cases directly do not exist. when that crisis happened, we saw how some countries that we were not affected by it could not exercise solidarity with countries that were affected, because there were no such interconnections. the energy objectives in europe are therefore of extraordinary importance, medium and long-term, and that is why we are in favour of diversifying these energy sources and of projects such as the nabucco project or the nord stream or south stream projects, which have to do with russia, being strengthened and even reaching something which does not exist in europe at the moment: a common energy market. for these objectives, facilitated by the treaty of lisbon, which introduces this energy competition which did not exist before, it is fundamental, essential, to establish a strategic relationship with russia on energy issues and other matters. we also have other instruments in the treaty of lisbon which have to do with foreign policy. the treaty of lisbon gives european foreign policy a new impetus: there is a president of the european council, there is a high representative, there is going to be a european external action service. in other words, there is a strengthening of the european union's external vision which will strengthen us in negotiations with other countries in all areas, including economic and energy. that is, therefore, the view i can give you on relations with russia. we are negotiating an agreement in which the energy issue is a key issue; that negotiation is beginning and we have the best prospects in that respect, but, of course, like any agreement, it is a matter that depends on very complex negotiations which are in turn part of a set of negotiations on that cooperation agreement which we want to update - as i say - after a lot has happened in europe in the last fifteen or twenty years. one of them is the special relationship we must have with russia, which is a country which, as everyone knows, has undergone one of the most profound changes in recent years.
madam president! with regard to question no 9, which i was asked to put on behalf of mrs morkūnaitė-mikulėnienė, and which relates to the previous question, russia, like belarus, intends to locate a nuclear power station on the eastern border of the european union, in the kaliningrad region. given the experience of chernobyl, this raises concerns about safety. does the council not intend to take up the issue of environmental security in its forthcoming talks with russia? that's pretty significant from our point of view.
i would like to return to questions 7 and 8, namely the relationship between the european union and russia. the minister was right to say that these relations should be based on values, but if so, the union has a special duty to human rights defenders in russia. my question is therefore: should we not make it a policy of the member states, of the union as a whole, to create special rules for obtaining visas for human rights defenders in russia? the idea is to make it possible for these people to obtain visas relatively quickly.
madam president! the resolution presented here illustrates very well the superiority of climate policy over energy security in the european union. it also reflects well the anti-nuclear prejudices of some in this room. nuclear energy, as it happens, is the only commercially proven low-carbon energy source, yet it is subjected to very strong criticism in this resolution. the european union's limited financial resources are to be invested in selected energy sources, simply because they are renewable, interfering very strongly with the market. such a policy will certainly reduce the expenditure needed today for strategic major infrastructure projects or support for interconnectors. that money will simply not be enough for energy security. that is why we cannot support this resolution today.
the debate on investing in low-carbon technologies is a debate on how member states' economies can adapt to the conditions of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. although the climatic and weather conditions of the last few months on our continent not only give arguments to those scientists who question the human influence on climate change through co2 emissions, when we talk about low-carbon technologies, the question must be asked in this context: how to provide the necessary resources for the development of clean technologies to achieve maximum effects in the shortest possible time? i believe that the system of support for research and development should be as flexible as possible in order to allow the management of resources in line with the dynamics of scientific research. the question is whether and how appropriate mechanisms are to be set up to support investment in low-carbon technologies. finally, i would also like to add that while there are some strong arguments for investing in the development of low-carbon technologies, this should not be at the expense of cohesion policy.
madam president! the commission communication of 23 january 2008 entitled 'supporting early demonstration activities in the field of sustainable energy from fossil fuels' as part of the climate and energy package stated that the european union would support the construction of 10 to 12 ccs demonstration units. at the end of 2008, the european parliament also addressed this issue in a resolution. point 11 of that document stated that the measures presented by the commission were insufficient to provide the desired incentives to set up at least 12 demonstration plants by 2015. however, in paragraph 18 it was considered absolutely necessary that at least 12 demonstration installations for which support is envisaged should include possible combinations of 3 ccs technologies. the financing should instead come from the sale of 300 million co2 allowances under the new entrants reserve, the so-called ner300. the amount of support for the construction of demonstration plants will therefore depend on the market price of the allowances. it is estimated to be between 7 and 12 billion euros. the proposed commission decision on this project shows that the ner300 support will cover 6 ccs projects in the energy sector and 2 in industry. does the council, in agreement with the commission, intend to support the construction of a further 2 to 4 units, and if so, how?
one of the key priorities of the european union's long-term strategy should be to create an innovative economy, including by transforming the current energy system, based on a low-carbon model, in particular on clean coal technologies. the eu's primary energy supply is still about 80% fossil fuel. in the last decades, networks, supply chains have been improved to supply society with energy from these sources. economic growth and prosperity have been built on oil, coal and gas, so it's hard to change that overnight. the european strategic energy technology plan, which is a pillar of the european union's energy and climate policy, is a good step towards making the european union an innovation economy, provided, of course, that it takes into account the financing of clean coal technologies. if europe is to achieve ambitious reduction targets in a cost-effective way, it is essential to increase research expenditure on clean, sustainable and efficient energy technologies, and to coordinate the pooling of public and private sector strengths, potential and resources. industrial revolutions in the past have shown that technology can permanently change the way we live. we now have a unique and real opportunity to change the patterns of energy production. however, investment in the development and promotion of clean, renewable energy sources can only be realised if the community provides the appropriate level of funding and includes such investment in the list of strategic objectives of the european union.
in writing. global warming caused by human activity is a fact. countering this process and its negative effects is the need of the hour. the way to deal with these problems is clean, renewable energy. however, in order for them to play a significant role in the european energy system, two conditions must be met. first, to increase funding for research into their development. secondly, increase funding for investments implementing cutting-edge low-emission technologies. investing in the development of low-carbon technologies as part of the epste plan is important from an eu-wide perspective. however, it is particularly important for countries whose energy sector for historical reasons emits large amounts of co2. one such country is poland. the improvement and development of carbon capture and storage (css) technology is vital for the entire polish economy.
on behalf of the ecr group. the earthquake in chile has claimed several hundred lives and left more than half a million people homeless. but in solidarity with chile today, let us remember that the people still suffer from a lack of sanitation, lack of access to clean water, as well as food, medicine and blankets. in addition, citizens are persecuted by criminal groups that loot abandoned shops and homes. we must do everything we can as the european union to ensure that people who have lost all their possessions and often their families do not fall victim to looters who prey on their suffering. it is good that we have decided to allocate three million euros for the most urgently needed funds. however, it should be noted that there are still areas in chile where aid has not yet reached because of destroyed roads and bridges. recent events in chile and haiti show that in addition to eu financial support, the aid mechanisms for disaster-stricken countries need to be improved. solidarity with chile is a very beautiful thing and it is good that the european union is showing this solidarity. but let us remember that solidarity is not the only thing we can do, and that we must continue to support chile in the future.
mr. chairman, please! i voted for the resolution on cuba. i honestly cannot understand why fidel castro's european friends are so passionately arming the idea of a bankrupt and demoralized revolution. is it only the dead victims of a supposedly progressive regime that need to realize the need for change in cuba? sometimes individual sacrifices contribute to historical change. i hope that's what happens this time. at the same time, i would like to see no more victims of the principled nature of the authorities or their inability to self-analyze and transform. i cannot accept that many acp countries are uncritically evaluating the nature and significance of the social and political system built in cuba. i'm convinced that this is a misunderstood solidarity. it would be more honest to acknowledge what has worked in cuba, but at the same time to condemn what has not, what is antisocial, inhuman and harmful.
mr. chairman, please! by voting for the resolution, i wanted to express my support for investing in the development of low-carbon technologies. the epste plan can only be effective and credible if it is adequately funded, including from private sources. the main reasons for this are the current economic situation in europe, dangerous climate change and the threat to energy security. modern research and technology are providing the opportunity to overcome the crisis while supporting climate change action. it is also an opportunity for european agriculture, a way of creating new jobs in rural areas, in the non-agricultural sector, especially in the area of renewable energy.
i could not support this resolution, although it is extremely important for the european economy, but it should be noted that this resolution presupposes a huge concentration of money only in certain industries, only in certain energy sectors green energy sectors. this is at odds with the energy solidarity of countries that rely primarily on coal. poland is coal-based, so it's very important for us to have a smooth transition to a green economy. as a result of this action in poland, instead of creating jobs, we will have to eliminate them. in times of crisis, this is extremely difficult and harmful for poland.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation of political prisoners and prisoners of conscience in cuba. as the european parliament, we must unequivocally condemn the practices of the regime in havana and call for the rights of independent journalists, peaceful dissidents and human rights defenders. in the resolution adopted, we expressed our deep solidarity with all cubans and supported their aspirations for democracy and respect for and defence of fundamental freedoms. i come from a country where a social movement against the communist regime, the solidarity movement, was born. and while poland and other central and eastern european countries now part of the european union have the painful experience of communist rule behind them, we cannot forget those who are imprisoned and persecuted for wanting democracy, freedom and freedom of speech so much.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen! i voted in favour of the resolution on the major natural disaster in the autonomous region of madeira and the impact of hurricane xynthia in europe. we're focusing on madeira, because that's where the cataclysm has taken its toll. we also form a large and strong community to help each other in need. today, madera and other areas that were badly affected by the hurricane are in need. it is our duty to help those who need our help. i hope that the resolution will help to counteract the effects of this tragedy effectively. my deepest sympathy to all the victims and their families. thank you, sir.
in writing. - having regard to the report of the committee on budgetary control (a7-0210/2010), environmental and natural disasters are becoming more and more common in our lives. the threats of environmental change have increased in recent decades and we should do everything we can to prevent them. the european union, a group of 27 countries, half a billion citizens, must not only face the occurrence of climate and environmental change, but also take care of its citizens and provide them with the best possible conditions for survival in post-crisis situations. but our work cannot be focused on helping after the fact. one of the foundations of the european union is to give its citizens a sense of security. the relevant eu institutions therefore need to take concrete steps to control regions and their capacity for preventive action. in order to prevent the effects of hurricane xynthia as soon as possible, we should launch the european union solidarity fund and help all those who have suffered losses as a result of this disaster. negative and painful events affecting people are always a reason for effective, solidarity-based action. let's show that this time it's the same!
the resolution we are discussing today is not political in nature, we have no intention of resolving the middle east conflict. we just want an innocent son to be able to return to his father, to his family. i don't know if you're aware of an organization called the parent circle. it's an organization that brings together israeli and palestinian families who have lost loved ones in this conflict. we are talking about an individual case today precisely so that gilad shalit's father does not join those who lost their loved ones, those most important ones  their own children. we're asking for the hostage to be released because we don't subscribe to the philosophy that the end justifies the means. fighting for a just cause does not justify actions that are widely considered to be wrong, to be terrorist. organizations that want to earn our respect, our respect, can't hold hostages. (laughter)
the gilad shalit case has a personal dimension. this is a tragedy for a very young man, my son's age, and it's a tragedy for his family. but let's not hide that this case also has a wider political context in fact it reminds us that this black and white film, which is often very one-sidedly presented in this building as well, a film that talks about the victims only on the palestinian side is something that is not really objective. i think that today we should call for the release of this young man, but let us also remember that those who are firing missiles at sderot are responsible for his continued captivity.
the author. - the mexican authorities, including president felipe calderón, have been waging a bloody war against drug gangs for several years. they had over 40,000 soldiers in the war and had some successes. these successes have undoubtedly included the arrest of the bosses of the sinaloa and juarez cartels, the destruction of over 23,000 hectares of opium crops, 38,000 hectares of marijuana, the closure of over 50 illegal drug laboratories and the arrest of over 45,000 people involved in the process. we must be aware that the mexican drug cartels bring in billions of dollars a year, far more than the government spends on the drug problem. so gangs spend vast sums to bribe politicians, judges, and police officers. that's why the government is losing this war. since 2006, nearly 15,000 people have been killed, including more than 6,000 in october last year alone. journalists are particularly at risk, with more than 60 journalists killed, most recently jorge ochoa martínez. we have to realize that without international involvement, mexico will not win this war. (laughter)
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i just heard a call in this room not to sign an agreement with the mexican government. i don't understand this postulate. we are praising, and my predecessors just praised the mexican president for his decisive fight against the drug lords, the mafia. so the mexican authorities should be commended for this action, and of course, we should also point out that they should not throw the baby out with the bath, but that they should try to respect human rights in this fight. that's obvious. we have to understand the situation in a country that has been struggling for decades with big organized crime, with the mafia. if the president of this country is waging war on this, we absolutely must support him. but of course, there were journalists, there were other victims. it should be stressed that these people should not be discriminated against.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. at a time when a growing number of countries are moving away from the death penalty, the decision of the constitutional court of south korea should be received with surprise at the very least. the death penalty is a clear violation of human rights, because human life is a value that should be protected by law, and a legal system that allows the death penalty is fundamentally wrong and hypocritical. there are many arguments against this approach to justice. the most important thing to me is that it's irreversible. the death penalty is the ultimate punishment. it takes away the one, the greatest thing a person will ever have. moreover, the moral responsibility rests with the perpetrators of this act, because there is always the risk of executing an innocent person. the constitutional court's verdict is further disappointing because we know that no executions have been carried out in korea for years. i hope this decision doesn't affect the number of sentences. furthermore, i call for a complete end to the death penalty in this country.
on behalf of the s&d group. south korea is one of the european union's key trading partners. it is also the country with which the european commission has concluded negotiations for a free trade agreement, giving both parties very wide access to their markets. with such close economic ties, i am surprised that the eu and korea are so far apart in respect for human rights. all member states of the union are signatories to protocol no 13 to the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, which prohibits the use of the death penalty. moreover, the union has declared its intention to work towards the universal abolition of the death penalty at international level. the union should express its strong support for the movement to abolish the death penalty in korea, according to that declaration. we hope that a moratorium on its implementation will be introduced as a first step and that the korean government will actively participate in the work to abolish the death penalty, carried out in the un forum. as the european parliament, under the new powers in the field of trade policy, we have the right and the duty to demand the abolition of the death penalty in all the european union's partner countries.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. if the views on the death penalty as they are today had been held in europe during the time of the nuremberg trials, none of the nazi criminals who were tried by that tribunal and who were responsible for the cruel death of millions of innocent people would have been sentenced to death. i have not heard of anyone in europe who has criticized the unjust decisions of the nuremberg tribunal. europe is moving further and further away from the essence of just punishment, which is a response proportionate to the evil done by the perpetrator and the guilt he bears. when we talk about murder, the killing of many people, for example in a terrorist act, or the genocide of millions of people, which happened in europe as well, the question of proportional punishment arises. the fact is that in europe too, there is an ongoing debate in scientific circles about the effectiveness of this punishment in terms of its preventive effect and the protection of innocent human lives. but that's not the key argument here. europe has now abandoned the death penalty, it is a democratic choice, we want it to be respected. but we also have to respect the choices of others, and that's why i'm all for talking about this, including talking to people in south korea. this is a democratic state, a democratic country.
i think we should not comment on this matter, we should not interfere in this matter for at least two reasons. firstly, because south korea is a democratic country and the constitutional court's ruling is a ruling of the legal authority of the country. so there is no danger that this punishment will be imposed on political or non-essential issues it will be imposed on criminals and murderers. second, the death penalty is a deterrent. of course, there's no empirical way to prove this, but if we assume the syllogism is true, that the harshest punishment is the most deterrent, that means the harshest punishment is the most deterrent, and that means the death penalty is the most deterrent. so, by using the death penalty, we are actually saving the lives of innocent people. the european union and the european parliament should therefore not interfere with the south korean authorities in this matter.
mr. chairman, please! it is with sadness that we must accept the decision of the constitutional court of south korea on the constitutionality of the death penalty. the decision is a step backwards in the country's decade-long moratorium on the death penalty. the last execution was 13 years ago. there are currently 57 inmates on death row awaiting execution. we have to be critical of the south korean court's decision. as the economic leader of the region, it should set an example in respecting the right to life of every individual. the death penalty is not compatible with the modern criminal justice system and contrary to popular belief, it does not lead to a decrease in crime.
i would like to point out that the decision of the constitutional court in south korea is disappointing and disturbing. although the last execution in the country was in 1997, the tribunal ruled on february 25 that the death penalty is a form of punishment that does not violate the constitutional right to life. this is the second judgment of the tribunal on the same subject. the first ruling was in 1996, when the tribunal also found that there was no social climate for the abolition of the death penalty. so it can be concluded that this climate is still not there, and it is a pity, because the country that is the economic leader should be an example for other countries in respecting the basic human right, which is the right to life. (laughter)
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 11 march 2010.
the final draft agenda drawn up in accordance with rule 137 of the rules of procedure was distributed by the conference of presidents at its meeting on 11 march 2010. in agreement with the political groups, i would like to propose the following changes:***
sir, my friend! that is not a point of order as far as the plenary is concerned. please report such matters to the committee, and then the matter can be considered. but in the plenary, it has to be about how we act in the plenary, not how we act in the committees.
the vice-president of parliament, who was then in charge of the discussions, applied the procedure under rule 20 (2) of the rules of procedure correctly. i will reply to your letter in writing. ***thursdaythe ppe group asked for a vote to be postponed to the next part-session on the draft resolution tabled by the conference of presidents on the consequences of the entry into force of the lisbon treaty for the ongoing interinstitutional decision-making procedures. so it's about moving the vote.
i have some information for you in the emergency mode. i would like to extend a warm welcome to the delegation of the pan-african parliament, led by the honourable mary mugyenyi. they're in our session! please, please! (laughter) (applause) second vice-president of the pan-african parliament and chair of the delegation for relations with the european parliament. our parliaments work closely together and we are very pleased to have you here today. i would like to take this opportunity to thank you for inviting me to speak at the pan-african parliament's meeting in three weeks' time. i'm sorry i won't be able to be there, but i'll send you a letter to that effect. i'm sure we'll have a chance to meet again. once again, a very warm welcome!
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the council and the commission on the preparations for the european council (25-26 march 2010).
acting president of the council. - mr president, in these early months of 2010 we are witnessing an extraordinarily strong dynamic in the european union, in the midst of the most serious economic crisis we have known for 80 years and, at the same time, we are launching a new treaty, the treaty of lisbon, setting up new institutions and making a very extensive reorganisation of the regulation of our economic systems. it is occurring in a sometimes disorderly way, responding to major challenges on the move - for example, at the moment, the situation of the greek financial system - but europe is responding to this situation by creating new economic policy instruments in all dimensions. so sometimes trees don't let us see the forest, but a whole new way of approaching the very complex economy of the 21st century is being created and it is being done with a european approach. this has been done when the very serious crisis has been responded to and there has been an immediate reaction of injection of public money into the economies which has produced large deficits. this has been done by tackling - and we are here in the european parliament to decide on this - a whole reform of the supervision of the financial system. this is being done by addressing the coordination of economic policies, and the commission has indicated that it will present a proposal to that effect, for the coordination of economic policies, essentially within the euro area. and we are also seeing very determined, very clear action by the european union to support the financial stability of the euro area: a political commitment adopted on 11 february to consolidate and maintain the financial stability of the euro area. within this set of actions there is certainly one more: the commitment to a new strategy for growth and the creation of quality jobs, which is the central theme of this weekend's european council; a strategy which has been expressed and developed by the european commission in the document of 3 march and which will be studied mainly by the heads of state and government at the spring council, mainly from the perspective of the so-called 'strategic objectives', the strategic objectives which the european commission has identified in its document, such as the issues of employment, investment in research and development, climate change and energy, school dropout, education in general and poverty. the european council will also address the issue of governance, which we consider to be one of the shortcomings of the so-called lisbon strategy, a governance which is intended to be based on the presence of the political leadership of the european council and the action of the commission in monitoring the compliance of the states with the commitments they have themselves made, with the close cooperation and control of all this by the european parliament and all the institutions of the union, of course. that will be the main objective of the european council meetings this weekend, to which will be added an important section, the one on the fight against climate change, where the union's leadership is maintained. the european union maintains its global leadership in the fight against climate change; it must do so, it must continue to maintain that leadership. and there's a quantified commitment in the so-called "fast start". we hope, therefore, that the european council will quantify and reaffirm this commitment in the years ahead to help developing countries also tackle the fight against climate change; and a commitment by the developed countries in general to work with those that are not yet developed and to ensure that we all arrive in the best possible conditions at the all-important cancún conference, where the european union must maintain - i repeat - the leadership it has at present, without which the copenhagen agreements, which we consider insufficient, would certainly not have been achieved. the european union has reaffirmed, at 27, its full support for these objectives and its desire for clear progress towards legally binding commitments at the cancun conference in mexico. these are essentially the issues which the heads of state or government will be discussing. it is also possible, depending on what is happening at this very moment, when the whole of the european institutions are discussing how to deal with the crisis of the so-called greek case, that they will deal with the issue of the financial situation in greece and the refinancing of the public debt in greece. that issue will also undoubtedly be there, because it is part of a political commitment that the european union adopted at the level of heads of state and government on 11 february, a political commitment to support the financial stability of the euro area, in the sense that if it is necessary to take concrete measures to maintain that financial stability, those measures will be taken. that is, in any case, the principle which will be very much in evidence at this weekend's european council meeting.
president of the commission. − mr president, it is indeed a very good and timely opportunity for us to meet today – one day before the important spring european council. we have challenging tasks ahead of us. for those tasks, the fresh and forceful backing of the european parliament is of great importance. having said this, i want to thank and congratulate parliament for its resolution on europe 2020, which it adopted in strasbourg two weeks ago with broad party support. i also want to take the opportunity to thank the spanish presidency of the council for its support for the europe 2020 strategy. that support was clearly expressed at different formations of the council of ministers. but now to the european council: i believe every european council must do two things. it must show that it is responding to the needs of the moment, and it must work on europe’s long-term strategic framework and long-term strategic objectives. the crisis entails several pressing concerns for communities, workers and businesses across europe. and, as we know, public finances at national level are under unprecedented strain. the european union must of course tackle these issues, including financial stability. (i will come back to this again later.) europe must not make the mistake of neglecting the imperative of working now to bring about long-term change. that is why the european council will deal with two of our most obvious long-term challenges: our economic future, and climate change. we have already debated the europe 2020 strategy together in this parliament. your contribution and your commitment will be indispensible in carrying through our ambitions for smart, sustainable, inclusive growth. so, too, will be the contribution of the european council. our level of ambition must be set by the scale of the tasks ahead. we need to show that we have the vision and the coherence to act. and we must be able to communicate this, to show people that our actions will make a difference where it matters. this is why i believe it is so important that the european council agrees clear targets this week. the targets which the commission has put on the table were carefully chosen. they address the need to increase the level of employment, to invest more in research and innovation, to meet our 2020 climate and energy targets, to improve our educational performance and to combat poverty. these five headline targets pinpoint objectives which people can relate to, and show that the european union is leveraging reform in areas that everybody knows are important. this is also about the political will to tackle tough problems. of course the targets must be achievable. they should also require an extra effort compared to the status quo, a recognition by our member states that change is needed, and i will try to convey to the european council this sense of urgency for the economic situation of europe now and for the need of reforms for a more sustainable, more inclusive economy and society in europe. what is really important is the measures which each member state will take to boost its growth rate and address the shortcomings we all know are there. we need national measures to address national problems defined according to national circumstances and in full respect of subsidiarity, but set within a common european framework. (if there is a lesson from the financial crisis, it is that we are all interdependent in the world. so we cannot accept the principles of interdependence globally and reject them when discussed at european level.) a common framework, too, which is supported and should be stimulated by particular european union measures, what we call in our document ‘flagship initiatives’. these flagship proposals will show the european union level acting in critically important areas such as the digital agenda, innovation, resource efficiency and industrial policy – and of course in some cases, will also help targets to be achieved at a national level. what we are proposing here is a new departure. thanks to the lisbon treaty we can go for a new approach to economic coordination, a reinforced economic governance of europe – one which gives the freedom necessary to target at the national level, but which brings a strong european dimension, and using all the instruments at european level to kick-start the economy. accepting this approach will be the real test for the european council. i am encouraged by the results of the informal european council. i hope that the european leaders will be present and say ‘yes’ when it comes to responding to these challenges in a collective spirit. regarding climate change, i know that this parliament shares my conviction that climate change is not a subject that can be put on the back burner. we need to keep this top of our agenda. the european union has been in the lead, and we still are – we alone have the reduction commitments clearly backed up with the mechanisms to deliver; we are the number one donors of aid to developing countries on climate issues. so let us move on from soul-searching about copenhagen and take the initiative once again. we need a clear, unified and ambitious position. that is why the commission has put forward a communication setting out the steps needed to reinvigorate international negotiations. at the same time commissioner hedegaard has started a set of consultations with our key partners. so we should make a serious effort to advance at cancún – building on the very real substance of the copenhagen accord. we should keep kyoto on the agenda, but make clear that it can only be assessed in the light of a global agreement and not before. we should step up outreach activities and build trust, most obviously with developing countries – which is why respecting our pledges on fast-start finance is so important. and of course, at the same time, we will continue to implement our 20-20-20 package, showing in particular how it is compatible with the work of economic modernisation and reform set out in the 2020 strategy. these two areas show vividly how europeans are looking to the european union’s political leadership for action. i am convinced that, if we have the will to be bold, we can show europe as the decisive influence in building the right future for our citizens. it is in the same spirit that i will present to the european council some of the major challenges for the g20 that will take place in june in canada. in fact we should never forget that some of those issues are european but they should also be addressed at global level. financial stability and the economic and financial situation in greece are not on the formal agenda of this european council. however, frankly speaking, i cannot see how it is possible for heads of state and government, notably those in the euro area, not to discuss this issue. let me therefore state our position on this. greece is currently in the process of correcting its government excessive deficit. bringing the deficit down vigorously is crucial and greece has been taking measures to that effect. in particular, greece is taking measures leading to a reduction of its deficit this year by 4% of the gdp. such fiscal effort is in line with the course of action recommended by the commission and the council, as acknowledged by the council on 16 march. naturally, greece’s fiscal effort must be continued, it is the only way to secure a lasting reduction in the cost of debt financing.in response to the economic and financial situation in greece, the informal meeting of the heads of state or government on 11 february stated that, and i quote, ‘euro-area member states will take determined and coordinated action, if needed, to safeguard financial stability in the euro area as a whole’. the commission believes it is now appropriate to create, within the euro area, an instrument for coordinated action which could be used to provide assistance to greece in case of need. it should be clear that the creation of such a mechanism will not imply its automatic activation. creating such a mechanism is also a question of responsibility and solidarity. solidarity is a two-way street. greece is making an economic effort at this point and by supporting this effort, we not only help greece, but the stability of the eurozone as a whole. the framework for coordinated action should be understood as a safety net to be used only when all other means to avoid a crisis have been exhausted, including first and foremost exhausting the scope for policy action at domestic level. beyond technical aspects, any possible solution must reinforce and strengthen the unity and the coherence of the eurozone and its governance. the world economy needs stability. the eurozone is a pole of stability, and it is important that its capacity to provide stability is further enhanced. we may need to resort to intergovernmental instruments for some issues, but they need to be embedded into a joint european framework. it is my firm conviction that the response to the specific challenges will also be a test to european leaders and to their commitment to the european – and monetary – union. what is at stake is the essential principle of financial stability that is central to the euro; and the euro is one of the most important creations of the european project and the european construction process so far. i hope this issue will be solved in a spirit of responsibility and solidarity. that is the european way to do it. (applause)
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. today, in this room, we are not without a certain amount of talk about greece, even though it is unfortunately not formally on the agenda of this summit. i would like to hear from this room a word of appreciation for the greek government. this is a government that today is facing protests in its streets, perhaps from its own socialist electorate, but it is a government that, in the name of a rational economy and european solidarity, is taking tough decisions and not bowing to populism. it is sad to say that not all european leaders today are able to resist such populism. i think greece needs our solidarity, because europe is built on solidarity, but of course we cannot allow any politician in any country to treat economic policy like walking around the store with a credit card with no limit, because it ends up like greece. in future we should be very firm in our demands that the member states pursue a rational economic policy, because that is what happens when a policy is not based on a rational basis. unfortunately, i have to say that today we are also faced with the problem that is so often seen in europe, namely that ideology and politics are above economics. unfortunately, this is how it ends, and we had an example of this when the euro was introduced. today, you could say that greece may have entered the euro too soon, but because politics was put before economics, today we have this crisis and not another. i would like to say that i hope that the european commission, under the presidency of mr barroso, will stand guard over european solidarity and european economic sense, because we need this sense and solidarity. i would also like to point out that we should not be looking for remedies to the crisis we are in today that will only make things worse. i do not think that more bureaucratization, integration and regulation in europe can help what is and should be our main objective, namely to increase competitiveness. we should not rely on officials to decide for free enterprise how to make our continent better. we should also respect the differences in economic and social policies that divide european countries, which are the result of their different histories, cultures, different circumstances. we can and should appeal for european solidarity with greece and i hope that words of appreciation for the greek government will come from this chamber.
instead of discussing the implementation of the europe 2020 agenda, i propose that we focus on what we are really influencing. we certainly have the influence to protect the common market from protectionism. we are certainly making european law easier for businesses, so that it does not restrict the competitiveness of the european economy. better legislation is a particular responsibility of this house, this parliament. countries will reform if they are subjected to the pressures of the global economy. that is why it is so important that we leave the member states the maximum freedom in the competitiveness of their tax, social and economic systems. by harmonizing these areas, we are only preserving the pathology of the european social model. it is freedom, not another strategy, that is the right response to the crisis.
madam president! the european council, which is preparing to define the union's new economic strategy, must draw lessons from the failure of the lisbon strategy and look at all member states in a spirit of solidarity and fairness. to be able to compete on global markets, we need to be innovative, but diverting the bulk of budgetary resources to this purpose alone will de facto discriminate against many central and eastern european countries, including poland. there is a great deal of expectation that eu funding will help spain, portugal and other eu countries develop their airport, road, rail and internet infrastructure. the eastern border regions of the european union, such as the lublin region, should be given particular priority and a special budget line should be created for them under the 2020 strategy. the council summit cannot send the signal that it is the poor regions of the union that will finance ideas whose benefits will be maximised only in the old member states.
in writing. the european council meeting starting tomorrow will focus on the general framework of the eu's new europe 2020 strategy and on the recovery from the economic crisis, as well as on the situation in greece and other euro area countries. these are closely linked issues, as the eu's strategy for growth and jobs is linked to these issues. in assessing the current situation, we need to answer the questions: how are the principles of the stability and growth pact being respected in each country? where has the european commission been? it is to be expected that the europe 2020 strategy will be viewed differently by the heads of state or government of the member states. this is due to the fact that there are significant divergences of interests between countries, which in turn arise from differences in levels of development. for obvious reasons, the countries of the last two enlargements, but not only, will fight for a greater emphasis on cohesion policy, infrastructure development or agriculture. but let's not forget about innovation and new technologies. europe's successful development and return to growth over the next decade will depend equally on the achievement of the strategy objectives set out in the commission's proposal, but also on the continuation of more traditional policies. in order to meet the difficult challenges of the global arena, the union must first of all redress its internal imbalances, and this cannot be achieved without respecting the treaty principle of solidarity.
mr. chairman, please! the enhanced role of the european parliament under the lisbon treaty and the european initiative are a very important step towards strengthening european democracy. however, for the initiative to fulfil its role, there must be procedures which do not restrict its democratic nature in the first place. the european parliament currently plays virtually no role in the citizens' initiative process. the previous parliament voted that it is the commission which decides which notified initiatives will be accepted and which rejected. i think the european parliament should play a much greater role here. it should, together with the commission, assess and give an opinion on the initiatives submitted. in this way, decisions on the admissibility of proposed initiatives would also be in the hands of the representatives of the voters, and not only the executive. the european parliament is now the only institution of the european union elected in a free and democratic election, and the citizens' initiative is about people's problems and opinions. if an initiative is rejected by the commission - and therefore by the executive who is supposed to implement it - it can be incomprehensible to the citizens. it is also important that the organiser of the initiative a social organisation, ngo clearly and explicitly states the subject and purpose of the initiative, although it should not necessarily be the one submitting the legislative proposal. i also believe that the procedures for initiatives should be harmonised in the member states, because the diversity of the procedures will make it difficult for us to win broad support for these initiatives.
mr. chairman, please! the public consultation on the european citizens' initiative has now ended and only 323 respondents have participated. this result shows that all the institutions of the european union should now really get involved in promoting this new instrument, because it is clear that very few people are aware of its existence. however, the results of the consultation show the direction in which the commission should go when developing the appropriate implementing rules. first, it is necessary to establish common union-wide rules for collecting and authenticating signatures and to ensure that citizens are subject to the same requirements, for example as regards age. another important issue is the introduction of some form of ex ante admissibility check, assuming that the initiatives and the initiators of the initiatives will be aware that formal recognition of admissibility does not mean that the commission will come forward with a legislative proposal on the matter. i believe that the european citizens' initiative can be an important instrument for future debate, a broad debate on pan-european issues. i look forward to the commission's decision on this.
in writing. the treaty of lisbon gives citizens of the union the right to legislate on their own initiative. this is one of the most important steps in building civic democracy and directly involving citizens in the eu's decision-making process. a european citizens' initiative can help to bridge the gap between the institutions and citizens and support the development of european civil society. it is therefore necessary to adopt swiftly a regulation governing the course, conditions and procedures for the submission of such an initiative. the citizens of the union are looking forward to it. the european citizens' initiative is primarily about making citizens more involved in european law-making. that's why i wanted to bring up the issue of electronic signatures under the citizens' initiative as an additional channel to get people interested in european politics. now that we can vote online, we can do banking online, we can certainly develop a secure system that allows us to identify electronic signatures. transparency of procedures is also important. the organisers of the initiative must be publicly accountable for the transparency of the funding of the signature campaign. even if clear criteria are established for its conduct, this will not prevent the instrument from being abused by eurosceptics, for whom collecting a million signatures with a significant financial commitment, as the last campaign for the european parliament showed, may not be a big problem. the solution could be to require the initiators to maintain a website containing financial information such as sources of income, expenditure, financial statements.
in writing. today's debate is another step towards defining the final shape of the european citizens' initiative. the idea of creating a tool to enable citizens to participate more fully in the democratic life of the union was born in 2005, after the defeat of constitutional referendums in france and the netherlands. these votes reflected a marked lack of communication between the european union and its citizens. even the recently published results of the public consultation launched by the green paper on the european citizens' initiative show little interest from individual citizens. the commission received only 159 responses from individual residents. the citizens' initiative offers an opportunity to change this and to involve our citizens more, by giving them the right to come directly to the commission with proposals for new policy initiatives. to ensure that the initiative does not become a political game, the requirements for citizens must not be too stringent, but the safeguards against abuse must be respected. it is important that the eio is a genuine transnational instrument that is citizen-friendly and easy to use. it should be simple, understandable, and accessible. if the initiative does not meet the formal requirements, the idea should be retained and presented in the form of a petition, so that the work and effort put into preparing it is not wasted. the fulfilment of these conditions will allow europeans, for the first time in the history of an integrated europe, to have a real and direct influence on european policy-making.
madam president! the issue of tibet and tibetans is unfortunately still an important issue. it's not as bad as it was two years ago, when the anniversary of the tibetan uprising was accompanied by brutal persecution, murder and torture. on the other hand, we can't say it's okay. a few days ago, students were arrested for attempting to celebrate the anniversary of the uprising in gansu and kanlo. tibetans are forbidden to work to save their own culture, identity and religion. chinese authorities say the dalai lama is a private individual. it reminds me of the efforts of the polish communists who 25 years ago said the same thing about lech walesa. i hope that the tibetan struggle will end with the same success as the polish struggle and that the truth will prevail in this case as well. today in dharamsala, the 21st meeting of the tibetan armistice team for the tibet-china dialogue is beginning. it is an institution that operates under the auspices of the tibetan government-in-exile and is intended to help with this dialogue. i think the european union should also do something to make this dialogue real. sometimes we complain that there is not much we can do, but in this case we can do something, and we have already talked about this today. that's why this absence of the council is so important. our appeals are addressed to the council, which appoints special envoys. i too subscribe to this appeal because this demand has been repeatedly expressed in the european parliament's resolutions on tibet, to appoint a special envoy who can have a real impact on a real dialogue between tibetans and chinese. one more thing: i can't understand how it is that china is going to host another olympics in 2014 - this time it will be the youth olympics - and at the same time we can't force china to make progress on human rights. it's really sad.
madam president! i very much regret that this important and necessary debate is taking place in the presence of a "big absentee" or a "little absentee" like chairwoman ashton. she should be here today, not just to participate in theatrical performances like yesterday when she spoke to the members of the six committees about her plans for the european external action service. tibet is also a big challenge. we can judge them one way or another, but really chairwoman ashton should be here. and i think it shows that the european union wants to wash its hands of this because it's more convenient, because actually many of the countries that are sitting here would prefer to trade, would prefer to do business with beijing, and it would be uncomfortable to speak out in this context, to talk about china. today, mrs. ashton is like pontius pilate washing his hands. this is embarrassing!
madam president! i can understand why corporations, private entities, put profit before respect for human and civil rights. i can even understand why individual countries do this, but i cannot understand why the european union does this. because the european union was founded on the values we now call european. and what is the european union's reaction to these events that we are talking about right now? the absence of mrs ashton - we were talking about this - the exit, at the very moment when we are starting to talk about tibet, the council representatives, finally the commissioner's opening speech. i'm not going to let you do this. you said you were calling for dialogue between the two sides. was that a joke? do you really want to appeal to the tibetan representatives for this dialogue? i have a feeling they're willing to do that. if you have the courage, please appeal first of all to the chinese authorities, because they are the ones who are preventing this dialogue.
madam president! today's debate is optimistic because it seems that we are very much in agreement here. but on the other hand, we've had a lot of debates like this here, and we're really good at talking. i don't want to be the one to get all angry and holy-washed, because i'm a hypocrite, and so is everybody else in this room. a hypocrite who's addicted to these cheap chinese goods. but maybe we should respect ourselves enough at this point to say categorically, to oppose certain things and to respect those ideals that are close to us. perhaps the first and most important step is what has already been discussed here, what has been mentioned, namely the appointment of a special coordinator for tibet, someone who will pilot this, who will respond on our behalf to these challenges related to the tibet problem, so that we no longer stand so far apart, that we say firmly and decisively that human rights, that civil liberties are important to us. let's do this let's do it right now!
member of the commission. − madam president, i think that the debate today once again has clearly shown that we have genuine concerns over the situation in tibet. i think that the interventions have underlined that these concerns remain real and legitimate more than 50 years after the tibetan uprising on 10 march 1959. moreover, our discussion has underlined the necessity for both parties to promptly resume dialogues. i can inform you that the european union welcomes the resumption of the dialogue between the envoys of the dalai lama and the chinese government, which was restarted again in september 2002. since then, we have strongly supported this dialogue and hope that this process will lead to positive results and to resolving outstanding issues in a peaceful and sustainable way for tibet. in its political dialogue and in its further contacts with china, the eu’s representatives regularly encourage china to use this process pragmatically in order to address all outstanding issues relating to tibet. while china considers this to be an internal matter, it took note of eu views and concerns and informed the eu of its own point of view on the matter. i have to underline that the eu also raises the human rights situation in tibet in its political dialogue and in its human rights dialogue with china. moreover, the eu consistently stresses the importance that it attaches to the respect of freedom of expression and of religion in tibet. we closely followed the latest development in this dialogue, and the dialogue between the chinese government and the representatives of the dalai lama is taking its course. i can inform you that during the past month we have been debriefed by both sides on the latest round of talks and have encouraged them again to make substantial progress. to conclude, let me express my belief that the debate here today has also confirmed our continued commitment to the involvement with china on this issue and the work we will be pursuing together with the aim to achieve improvement of the respect of human rights and freedoms in tibet.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! two years ago, there was a peaceful protest by monks in lhasa, which was met with brutal police and military intervention by the chinese authorities. dozens of civilians were killed and hundreds were injured. since then, tibetans have staged over 200 peaceful protests involving various social groups, including teachers, students and intellectuals. the european parliament adopted eight resolutions on tibet during its last term and debated the issue on several occasions. the results of these activities are still not satisfactory. recently, chinese authorities detained 30 students from a school in machu picchu who had once again expressed their beliefs in early march and started a peaceful protest on the second anniversary of the lhasa massacre. many such cases may have been unheard of. i therefore propose that this issue be included in the remit of the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy and that it be given a more comprehensive dimension, with concrete action and, i hope, tangible results. thank you for your attention.
in writing. the modern media is full of information about china. reports, articles, books, they're constantly talking about their development, their modernization, their economic miracle. in this context, tibet has also been written about recently. the american newsweek recently reported that "china is very good for tibetans" because it is helping to lift tibet, one of the poorest regions in the world, out of its backwardness. it points to chinese investments in transport and telecommunications infrastructure, education, health care, and access to water and electricity. so it seems that the plan of president hu jintao is being implemented, who, by raising the living standards of the tibetan people, is trying to force them to give up their freedom of speech, religion and the pursuit of autonomy. but can his strategy be effective? the lhasa riots that erupted two years ago on the anniversary of the anti-chinese uprising, and the events of two weeks ago, have most clearly shown that tibetans feel persecuted in their own country. the history of my country has taught me that there is no price that freedom and dignity are not worth. we cannot allow the interests of the economy to make us forget the oppressed and the suffering. i think that the european parliament is the body that should be particularly vocal about the right of tibetans to preserve their identity. we represent the european union here and on its behalf we should assure the tibetans of our solidarity.
mr. chairman, please! i'd like to raise the issue of the murder of russian journalist maxim zuev. he was killed about a week ago in kaliningrad. he was a well-known journalist, also a blogger. this is not the first time a journalist has been killed in russia. there have been at least a dozen of these cases since 2000. and this is a worrying phenomenon, because we know that without freedom of speech, without journalists being able to work, there is no freedom at all, there is no democracy. we should always pay attention to this in our dialogue with russia. i hope to organise a seminar in the european parliament later this year, if i can get the agreement of my delegation for russia and afet. i think that each of us, in conversations at various levels with our russian partners, should emphasize that freedom of the media, freedom of journalists to practice their profession is the basis of dialogue and freedom both in russia and in our country.
madam president! the european external action service shall constitute the diplomatic corps representing the union and supporting the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. the activities of this service must take into account the cultural and national diversity within the union. each country must have a sense of proper representation of its own interests, its own culture, its own experience in this service. to achieve this goal, we need to have a partnership, an equal participation. how is the european external action service being set up? it is to be composed of officials from the relevant services of the general secretariat of the council and the commission, as well as staff seconded by the national diplomatic services. the diplomats nominated by the member states shall constitute only one third of the total corps. however, irrespective of the origin and the route of the officials, the principle of proportional representation of all the nationals of the member states should be adopted. this principle is the basis for the functioning of a common civil service for the institutions of the union. so i see no reason to construct it differently in this case...
madam president! fellow workers! i would like to address you, and in particular commissioner janez potočnik, on a matter which is affecting the speedway environment in a dozen countries of the european union. the case concerns the implementation of directive 2002/49 on the management of environmental noise. this implementation causes the players to be forced to install new silencers. these silencers reduce the attractiveness of the spectacle itself, i.e. the noise which is an integral part of it, on the one hand, and increase the risk, i.e. the danger to the competitors themselves, the danger of losing their health or their lives, on the other. i would therefore urge commissioner potočnik to consider proposing an amendment to exclude the sport of fencing from directive 2002/49.
madam president! women are underrepresented in science and scientific research. in europe, they represent 30% of all scientists and only 18% of professors. we're 27% of the science managers. poland, with 7% of women on the boards of universities and research institutes, ranks second to last among the 27 eu countries. this is why the research project 'women in science' prepared by the polish academic entrepreneurship foundation is so important. the project is about examining the causes of discrimination and finding effective antidiscrimination solutions. citizens' projects that are citizens-led and citizens-driven have the best chance of success. i call on the european commission to provide specific support and practical assistance to the civil society organisations undertaking such tasks. when union citizens address the commission, their letters cannot go unanswered.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what are you doing? the 2011 budgetary procedure is very specific and exceptional as it concerns the first budgetary year to be established and adopted under the provisions of the treaty of lisbon. we are the pioneers in this field, and we have a special responsibility. the treaty of lisbon gives parliament additional powers in the budgetary field. it is up to us how we use them, and we look forward to a constructive dialogue with both the european commission and the council to make the best and most effective use of these new opportunities provided for by the lisbon treaty. the very important innovation introduced by the lisbon treaty is that we will no longer have two readings of the budget. this means that both parliament and the council will have only single readings. this, of course, poses a particular challenge to discipline. we must be disciplined as a parliament, because we will have - to put it simply - only one chance. we're not gonna have a second reading. we have a lot to settle in the reconciliation meeting. we need to work together and in a disciplined way to ensure that the new budgetary procedure runs smoothly in the autumn. this year is also special because, due to the late election of the european commission, it did not have the opportunity to present its annual political strategy. it is therefore very unique and interesting that the european parliament is the first to express its ideas and that the first opinions on the 2011 budget come from the european parliament in the form of this report, rather than from the european commission, as has been the case every 'normal' year. why is 2011 still so special? the 2011 budget is the fifth budget of the multiannual financial framework. i would remind you that the multiannual financial framework covers the period 2007 to 2013. we have already learned a great deal during the four current budgetary procedures. in polish, you can say we've come to a wall, to a wall. in english, we say we've reached the ceiling. we are in a situation where the multiannual financial framework is running out. we are actually reaching a wall, a point where the margins are very small and any possibilities for parliament are radically reduced. the margins are very small. the figures for section 1b are particularly worrying: around eur 1 million, and for section 3b around eur 9 million. that is why our possibilities are limited, of course, and why the report i have prepared for the committee on budgets so strongly calls for, expects and asks for an ambitious review and revision of the multiannual financial framework. not only because these margins are running out, but also because the revision must take account of the important budgetary implications of the lisbon treaty. the lisbon treaty gives the european union new competences in areas such as space policy. importantly, it also creates a european external action service. there is also a need for budgetary reflection on how we intend to deliver the europe 2020 strategy. all these projects were not foreseen in the multiannual financial framework. we need to start talking now about how to fund these new plans and ambitions. i would very much like and the budget committee report carries this message that youth should be the motto of the 2011 budget. youth is the driving force and the future of europe. education and investment in young people are therefore also investments in the present and future of europe, its society and its economy. i wanted to emphasize that such a very important moment in the life of every person is the transition from the school-academic environment, that is from education to the first job. it's a very difficult time, especially in a time of crisis. i would like to quote a statistic: 21 people between the ages of 15 and 24 are unemployed. it is very important that the european union is not indifferent to this difficult element and that we work together to make this difficult transition from education to the labour market easier for young people. i would like to emphasise that in an era of rapid technological change, but also demographic change, we need to create a knowledge-based society with citizens who have the capacity to change their skills over their lives, careers, and are given the opportunity to do so, and the support of the european union in this process. european union support should include inter-national exchange programmes at academic, trainee and professional levels, thus increasing the level of social integration, knowledge flows and creating opportunities for genuine mobility for european union citizens. mobility, i would remind you, is a fundamental freedom guaranteed by the treaties and the foundation of a functioning internal market. i will now switch to english because i am now going to be replacing mrs helga trüpel. so i'm now playing a different role, not only concerning the european commission's budget but now the other institutions and the parliament's budget. i have prepared to speak in english which accounts for the change of language. at this stage of the procedure, the purpose of the resolution is to paint a general picture in a budgetary context in particular and to issue some guidelines for the administrative budgets of different institutions, including the european parliament and excluding the commission, about which i spoke earlier. the general context is that the circumstances under which the 2011 budget will be adopted are very challenging because the margin under heading 5 is very limited and because the successful implementation of the treaty of lisbon is the priority for all the european institutions. the entry into force of the lisbon treaty changes the procedure for the adoption of the budget and therefore requires even closer cooperation and dialogue between the institutions. interinstitutional cooperation covers several aspects such as translation capacities and recruitment and exchanging best practices and improving effectiveness could be achieved for areas that have so far not been considered in this context, such as emas, non-discrimination policies and teleworking. the development of a medium- and long-term building strategy has been a concern of the committee on budgets for a long time, not only as regards the parliament but also regarding the other institutions. uncertainties as to the size and the shape of the budget for the external service and the court decision on pay adaptation make the financial situation in heading 5 even more unpredictable. turning specifically to the european parliament's budget, the bureau's guideline document contained the following objectives for parliament's budget: developing expertise to members, as far as research capacities and library briefings are concerned, and adapting institutional aspects deriving from the lisbon treaty. therefore the committee emphasises legislative excellence, which is a top priority.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the draft european parliament resolution on the priorities for the 2011 budget includes a paragraph recalling that the funding of priorities must not be to the detriment of the eu's core policy areas, such as cohesion policy, the structural policy or the common agricultural policy. this provision is a reservation which appears necessary in view of the budgetary priorities defined in advance. and those priorities are the ones that leave a lot to be desired. the panacea for europe's crisis is supposed to be innovation, but the fact is that the poorest regions of the union often lack the conditions for innovation to flourish. there are countries where the foundations of a modern economy are actually just being built. if europe is to be a continent of equal opportunities, cohesion and structural policies are the first response to this situation. we must remember this aspect of the union's policy, namely solidarity, especially in times of crisis, so as not to perpetuate the division of the continent into rich and poor.
the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon gave the european parliament significant additional powers. the time has come for co-decision on eu spending, but at the same time time time, it will take time for this mechanism to start working. this year and the next few will certainly prove to be a watershed in the final shape of the new budgetary procedure. only in partnership between parliament, the council and the commission will it be possible to develop procedures which are as close as possible to the provisions of the new treaty. i would like to support the call for an increase in the community budget in view of the new responsibilities facing parliament following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. there is no doubt that parliament needs adequate resources to be able to carry out its tasks effectively. parliament's responsibilities are increasing, which is why we need more advice, expertise and support from various experts, which is something that we have to pay for. another priority highlighted in the report, which deserves full support, is the need to invest more in young people and, consequently, in education, which is the foundation of a modern and innovative society. europe is still losing the technology race with the us, japan and other new world powers. there is certainly a way to change that, but it will require considerable effort. as part of the fight against poverty, we should fund programs like free food distribution to the poorest of the poor. we need to develop actions like "a glass of milk" or "fruit in school". we cannot tolerate malnutrition among children and youth if we talk so much about education and a knowledge-based economy. the union's economic development strategy for the next ten years (the so-called 'europe 2020') is currently underway. the expenditure which will be involved in this strategy should therefore be taken into account already now, at the budgetary stage. to be successful, it will require greater investment in regional and european cohesion, employment promotion and crisis management. finally, i would like to thank ms jędrzewska for the very substantive and innovative way in which she has prepared the priorities for the 2012 budget.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. i'm not going to let you get away with this. dearly beloved reporters! first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent report. the economic situation in the european union is still unsatisfactory, but the report does provide a lot of information on how to create european added value. it seems that putting young people at the centre of these concerns for medium and long-term goals is a great way of solving problems. the continuing trend towards innovation and digital technologies seems to be a good example of the rapid development of the european union. the support for small and medium-sized enterprises, mainly in the weak regions, is also interesting. it is also worth noting that the investment policy in tnt, i.e. transport issues, will be in place as regards mobility. it seems that investing in young people is key, and i would also like to thank the education committee for all the activities it has undertaken to support investing in young people.
member of the commission. − mr president, i should like to thank members for their comments, which have deepened and enriched my understanding of parliament’s priorities for 2011. what was clear to me when listening – and i am in a listening mood this evening – was that many speakers stressed that we are shaping the budget for 2011 in the extraordinary environment of post-crisis europe, with many countries struggling with real fiscal challenges. this is putting a real pressure on the budgetary figures and is also putting pressure on sound management, on transparency in the budget – that was clear from mr van orden, mr berman, mr fernandes, mr haglund – but, if resources are scarce, what is really needed is to set priorities properly. my feeling after the debate, is that youth, i.e. heading 3b – upgraded by the rapporteur – has the support of younger and older members of this room so it seems that this priority for 2011 is rightly placed, according to a majority here in the parliament. what is also needed is quality and good implementation and we immediately – for example mr godmanis and mr surján – think about cohesion. yes, that was low-level in 2009-2010. it should go at cruising speed by 2011, as should anti-crisis delivery. but we also have underspending on research and that deserves much more user-friendly financial regulation. we should be disclosing it at the end of may-june this year. what was also clear to me, when listening to your debate, is that parliament is conscious of room for manoeuvre in the budget being very limited. mr salvador garriga polledo, mr färm and others stressed the very limited room for manoeuvre, but the conclusion could be more flexibility in the shaping and implementation of the budget. i can only share this conclusion. as usual, ingeborg grässle is right in saying that no budget has been included as yet for the external action service, but to draw up a budget you need figures. we do not have the figures as yet and without figures it is very difficult to establish the budget. but of course this should come this year if the external action service is to be operational. i am really looking forward to tomorrow’s discussions in the informal trialogue and then to launching the real debate. let us hope also for a fruitful conciliation of the 2011 figures.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i have to go. i'm not going to let you get away with this. fellow workers! i listened to your comments with great interest and i would like to say first of all that i am very pleased that the priority linked to the main shift in the 2010 budget, the priority linked to youth, which i proposed and which was adopted by the committee on budgets, has also received your support and interest. i'm very happy and motivated. i would like to emphasize again, of course, what you also rightly pointed out in the discussion, that we have little room for manoeuvre. the commission is therefore urged to take an ambitious and dynamic approach to the review and possible revision of the multiannual financial perspective. i would remind you that 2011 is the fifth year, the fifth budget of the multiannual financial perspective. i think it's time we learned something after four years. the fifth one should be much better. of course, it's clear that we are struggling, we are dealing with a financial crisis, an economic crisis, it's obvious, to varying degrees in different countries. in some of them we can already see the symptoms of coming out of this crisis, but that does not change the fact that we should be ambitious, especially when we look at the budget of the european communities, the funds allocated to innovation, to research, to youth, to the realization of the common market, to the realization of the freedoms of the common market, are actually a small part of the budget of the european communities. so any savings, in my view, should not be on this part of the eu budget. many of you have said something that i agree with, namely that young people are the future of the european union. but i would like to add that youth is not just the future: youth lives here, now, today. today he's studying, today he's looking for a job. youth is not just the future, it's the present. investing in young people is not just about what will happen, but what is happening now. this too must be constantly reminded. i would also like to say a few words about this extended thinking on the european union budget: not just young people, but also a broader understanding, including youth issues, looking further, including education and training issues. i think that the european dimension, the european added value dimension, is very clear here. and we should not forget that we are, after all, operating in a common europe, where the mobility of thought, the mobility of people is actually one of the greatest values and we should take care of it all the time. i would also like to say a few words in conclusion about the debate on the budget of the european parliament. i am replacing the rapporteur today, but i will say a few words to emphasize what is already contained in the report of the committee on budgets, namely that it is of course important to think about savings, to reflect constantly on whether the expenditure that is being made is justified or whether it is the best that can be done. this reflection is ongoing, and it should concern all of us. and it is reflected in the report on the european parliament. i very much hope that this debate, at this late hour, is not a waste of time for all of us. i hope very much that the commissioner will listen to all that has been said here, that he has not forgotten that he was our colleague not long ago, and i hope very much that this debate will be reflected in the draft budget which the european commission has promised to present to us on 27 april. i would of course like to repeat all this again and again and again throughout the spring and autumn, but i would nevertheless be very happy if some of the points already raised here were already included in the draft coming from the european commission, so that we would have to repeat them less. thank you again for your attention.
in writing. the eu budget for 2011 should unconditionally support the main trends in the community strategy for the next decade. the commission has also launched a new initiative to promote the use of biotechnology in the eu. there is also a strong case for supporting the development of education systems through interdisciplinary investment, money must be invested in projects that guarantee graduates to gain employment. if we don't invest in young people today, we will face the dark vision of stalling economic growth and perhaps even another crisis. it goes without saying that we need to develop the it industry and give citizens access to digital technology. this will facilitate it education and information acquisition, especially among rural residents.
in writing. the 2011 budget is under discussion, and parliament's amendments to the so-called financial perspective 2007-2013 are being discussed in areas such as 'competitiveness and cohesion for growth and jobs' in addition, we are working on a europe 2020 strategy, which should focus on promoting innovation, supporting entrepreneurship, investing in science, new technologies and regional development. i would like to draw particular attention to the issue of economic, social and territorial cohesion, which is key to ensuring that the eu has sustainable economic growth and full integration of the member states. article 174 of the lisbon treaty mentions mountain policy as a specific type of regional policy alongside island and cross-border regions. in order to promote its harmonious development, the union shall take action to strengthen its economic, social and territorial cohesion. in particular, emphasis should be placed on reducing disparities in levels of development between regions with specific natural and geographical characteristics. mountains and foothills cover almost 40% of the eu's territory and are home to almost 20% of the eu's population. the specific spatial and economic problems of mountain regions require the establishment of transnational legal regulations on the objectives and principles of the specific mountain policies in the member states and, most importantly, the provision of an adequate level of funding for projects and programmes for these regions. i believe that financial support for mountain regions should be included in the new financial perspective and the europe 2020 strategy.
madam president! i would like to point out the relevance of paragraph 9 of mr scott's report, which stresses that the commission should seek to secure an agreement in the wto negotiations on non-trade issues which ensures that imported agricultural products meet the same food safety, animal welfare and environmental protection requirements as those imposed on agricultural products produced in the european union. the problem is that this is the 150th time that the european parliament has spoken out on this issue, to apply the same requirements to importers as to producers in the european union. this has not been addressed and we continue to have a situation where our producers, farmers and manufacturers have to meet high, costly standards, while importers do not meet those standards. this leads to unequal competition. as the report rightly points out, this must change.
mr. chairman, please! thanks to the instruments of the common agricultural policy, the agricultural market in the european union is characterised by a supply of high-quality agri-food products. high standards, good quality food and sufficient supply are what make food safety so important. it is important that the consumer is informed about the quality of the goods. we know that every product that's put on the market has to meet minimum standards. the special quality above the minimum standards must be described on the goods in order to improve their competitiveness by the fact that they have additional qualities for which they have to pay. another important information that should also appear on food products is the place of origin and processing of the raw material. the consumer must know what he is buying and what he is paying for. the lack of this information will weaken the competitiveness of agri-food products produced and processed in europe against imported goods that do not comply with animal welfare, environmental requirements or social standards for working people.
fellow workers! the sad news of the last few days, the shooting of a french policeman, mr jean-serge nérin, by eta members, reminds us that the problem of terrorism in europe has not yet been solved. on behalf of myself and parliament, i would like to express my condolences to the family of the murdered man. we hope that the spanish and french police will bring to justice not only the direct killers but also their sponsors. another disturbing development: the arrest of some 30 women in cuba who were participating in the women in white demonstration. these ladies are the mothers and wives of opposition prisoners. the european parliament awarded the sakharov prize for women in white in 2005. we join these heroic women today and think of them and their plight.
the next item is the joint debate on:- report by edward scicluna on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the ecb's annual report for 2008 (2009/2090 (ini)) (a7-0010/2010) and- report by sven giegold on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the annual review of the euro area situation in 2009 and public finances (com (2009) 0527 - 2009/2203 (ini)) (a7-0031/2010)
mr. chairman, please! i'll avoid the military language my predecessor used. the language of war is not suited to banking. i represent the only political group in this parliament where the majority of delegations are from outside the euro area. only two are in euroland. so my point of view will be different. the number 36 may be a summary of president trichet's speech, because so many meps listened to him. does that mean we're lazy? no this means that in reality meps do not really believe that the european central bank can be a recipe, a remedy, for the crisis, that it can be a lifeline. commissioner rehn said that the eurozone is a value in itself, and then he talked about the crisis in greece. there is a contradiction. greece is going through a crisis right now because it entered this oasis of stability too early. let us avoid such a contradiction!
mr. chairman, please! the widespread crisis in the euro area shows the dangers that economic projects, which are not economic in nature but ideological in nature, can pose, especially when integration involves the different economic conditions of individual countries. the question is whether some countries should have joined the euro at that time. the euro project eventually became not so much an economic project as a political one, aimed at speeding up european integration. in many countries, european taxpayers can now pay a heavy price for this haste. it would be good if we could learn from this lesson for the future. the euro is not the answer to the structural problems of individual economies, excessive indebtedness, lack of financial discipline. it is the member states that are responsible for their own finances and these problems should be solved where they arise.
mr. chairman, please! a crisis is a disease that usually leads not only to recovery but also to strengthening and building up immune systems. it can also lead to so-called complications and even some permanent damage to the body. consider how this disease, which we call the crisis, came about. in most cases, the disease is the result of various neglects in our body or comes from outside. the cause of the crisis is the non-market, speculative behavior. the market itself is not able to reject, eliminate or reduce them if there is no proper supervision and monitoring of the processes, and in particular in unusual market situations. until now, financial markets have been monitored and supervised mainly by state, national institutions. globalization has led to the creation of global financial institutions, the global financial market. the commission has not yet developed adequate global, regional, in this case european, institutions to monitor and supervise these markets. the market is not driven by values, but above all by the pursuit of profit at any cost. the crisis did not start in 2008 with a collapse in financial markets, but in 2007 with a crisis in food markets and a disruption in the energy market, which is driven by political instruments. the situation in the european union is the sin of not respecting the established and generally accepted principles of the stability and growth pact. it is a pity that the commission's warnings were too soft. some countries were allowed to do more, because they would be lectured by some commission. some countries have been childish in concealing their sins. that's not what community is about, and that's not what integration is about. it is important to admit the mistakes that have been made, to inform our citizens, to apologize to them, to ask for understanding and cooperation in overcoming the crisis. we must take action to ensure that the costs of the crisis are not passed on to the weakest and poorest. our duty of eu solidarity is also to support the countries most affected by the crisis. healing will not come from outside if the organism, the state, does not take up the fight.
mr. chairman, please! the past year has been extremely turbulent for the euro area. it started with slovakia joining the eurogroup and ended with greece's huge economic and financial problems. the world was then in the throes of the worst economic crisis in years. there are discussions about how to deal with the new challenges, what direction the global economy should take, what policy the european union should pursue. this resolution is part of that debate. i would like to draw attention to one aspect of it. ladies and gentlemen! the economic crisis, the problems in greece, and the current debate on aid to greece show that the division between the new and the old europe is still relevant. last friday, european commission president jose manuel barroso spoke of the idea of creating a support mechanism for euro area countries facing financial problems. according to the commission president, the rules and conditions under which the facility would be managed should be determined only by the euro area members. in taking part in this debate, i would like to warmly support the position of commissioner jan lewandowski, the commissioner responsible for the budget, and professor jacek rostowski, the polish minister of finance, and to join their call, and the call of many of you, for all member states, including those outside the euro area, to take an active part in strengthening the area and creating support instruments for its members. poland, as one of the countries outside the euro area, will soon adopt the single currency and we would like to be responsible for the future shape of the eurogroup today. that is why we must not exclude the new member states from this important debate. following the slogan 'two-speed europe', let us not divide europe today into euro-zone and non-euro-zone europe, for we are one union. finally, i would like to warmly support all the elements of the resolution calling on the european central bank, the european commission and the members of the eurogroup to support the process of enlargement of the euro area, to enlarge according to the criteria currently in force. and i would like to thank the president of the european central bank, mr trichet, for his good work, especially in this difficult year for europe.
in writing. - changes in the law to improve animal welfare are necessary and i am very pleased that the european commission no longer intends to make them without the involvement of the european parliament. i therefore supported the report by jo leinen on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council repealing council decision 79/542/eec drawing up a list of third countries or parts of third countries, and laying down animal and public health and veterinary certification conditions, for imports into the community of certain live animals and their fresh meat. although i'm not on the environmental, public health and food safety committee, i will continue to be involved in the legislative amendments, especially those that will radically improve horse transportation. there are many motivations, but above all, i have a christian ethic that i care about, not just for people, but for animals and for our environment. the european union can do a lot here.
in writing. - in my speech i spoke about the situation in the euro area and public finances in 2009. my verdict on the vote has a broader context. as forecast by economists, 2009 proved to be the most difficult year for the member states affected by the crisis. the union's gdp fell by 4%, industrial production by 20%, the number of unemployed rose to 23 million, and so on. the costs of combating the crisis have led to a drastic deterioration in the state of public finances. however, some countries already had high public debt levels before the recession, which were contrary to the stability and growth pact. the financial crisis has proved to be the greatest challenge the euro area has ever faced. it has laid bare the weaknesses of the single currency system. the most serious of these is undoubtedly the wide variation in the stability of public finances and the level of debt in the euro area. the stability and growth pact, which was supposed to guarantee the fulfilment of the convergence criteria, has suddenly been disregarded by national and eu authorities alike. the lack of discipline and an adequate system of penalties eventually led to the single currency crisis. many politicians who are unwilling to see european economic integration have already announced the break-up of the eurozone, spreading visions of disaster for the entire integration process. however, i believe that these views are unfounded and speculative. the euro area is facing a major reform opportunity that will improve control mechanisms and ensure greater coordination. it's just a matter of being reasonable about the process.
in writing. - with reference to today's vote on the nomination of candidates for the european court of auditors, i would like to express my support for the decision we have taken in relation to the controversial candidate mr szabolcs fazakas. according to official documents, he supported the communist dictatorship in hungary for many years as a member of the hungarian security service. the facts of which public knowledge is a visible shadow on his life and which should be considered well in advance. the eu has always stood up for democracy, freedom of speech and conscience, and these values have been violated for decades by socialist regimes not only in hungary but also in many other countries of the so-called eastern bloc. it is true that times have changed and that we can all enjoy a broad sense of freedom today, but we must also remember those who restricted our freedom.
in writing. - during this plenary session we voted on the draft report on the appointment of augustyn bronisław kubik as a member of the court of auditors. he is currently the undersecretary of state in the ministry of regional development. in the past, he has served as, inter alia, advisor to the president of the supreme audit office and inspector general for internal audit at the ministry of finance. mr kubik did very well in his hearing in the european parliament and his candidacy was not in doubt. he has the professional experience to be an auditor of the court, and he will be the right person in the right place. and so i have decided to support his candidacy.
in writing. − i would like to express my satisfaction that the rapporteur has included in the draft recommendation of the european parliament to the council on the eu priorities for the 65th session of the united nations general assembly issues relating to such an important topic as un-eu cooperation in crisis management. more recently, the earthquakes in haiti and chile have shown how vulnerable people are to the suffering and damage caused by natural disasters. however, in both countries, eu and un cooperation has been successful in rescuing and assisting those affected. i believe that we should now focus on optimising this cooperation in order to make the best use of the resources available and to save as many people as possible as quickly as possible, and to enable them to survive later. in addition, assistance to maintain order and rebuild the country after the disaster is also a key issue. although all eu member states are also members of the un and the european community has permanent observer status at the un, there are difficulties in developing a harmonised position for all eu countries. i believe that a common constructive approach to effective cooperation in disaster relief is a priority.
in writing. - discrimination against roma has been one of the main taboos in europe for years. in recent years, it has been breaking down. measures to combat discrimination against roma are still insufficient. often this problem is met with disregard. a good example of this is the european commission's lack of response to the european parliament's request of 28 january 2008 to develop a european roma strategy in cooperation with the member states. the need of the moment is to reiterate that conclusion. in times of economic crisis, aggression against the roma is on the rise. it affects many of the 10-12 million roma in the european union. recognising that roma issues should be given priority status by the newly appointed commissioners, i decided to support the draft resolution on the second european roma summit prepared by the s&d and ppe members.
in writing. - building the eu budget in a time of financial crisis, with a very tight budgetary margin and new challenges associated with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, is not easy. i was all the more pleased to vote in favour of the report by sidonia jędrzewska on the 2011 budget and the ep's draft resolution, both of which set out ambitious budgetary priorities for the coming year. in addition to traditional priorities such as cohesion policy and the promotion of innovative and green technologies, the 2011 budget should focus on ensuring the full operability of new initiatives in the eu: the european external action service, the eu 2020 economic strategy and the eastern partnership actions. all three are threatened with failure if the measures planned for them prove too "symbolic". the comprehensive approach to the youth problem is also noteworthy. in the face of demographic problems, the eu cannot afford a low rate of educated youth, as this would lead to an even greater increase in unemployment in this age group, which the union simply cannot afford. the european budget must therefore allocate funds to support language learning, intercultural dialogue, increase the mobility of young people and the integration of graduates into the labour market.
in writing. - i welcomed the outcome of the vote on the report by ms sidonia jędrzejewska on the priorities for the 2011 budget of the european union. i voted yes, of course. today's vote was special for two reasons. firstly, it is the first budget to be adopted under the lisbon treaty. secondly, the european parliament was the first institution to put forward its proposals for priorities. the rapporteur has very aptly referred to the issue of youth and education in her document. support for young people, including in finding their first job or starting their own business, is particularly important in times of crisis. the lack of adequate attention to this issue in previous years is particularly evident today. employment experts point to the helplessness of not only graduates but also those in their 30's who have been in the job market for several years.
in writing. - i congratulate my colleague on his detailed report and agree that the quality policy for agricultural products should not be seen in isolation from the cap and the guiding ideas of the community strategy for the coming years, such as sustainable development, biodiversity and the fight against climate change. eu citizens expect high-quality, healthy goods that are produced using innovative technologies that take into account the environmental impact of the production process. i also share the rapporteur's view that an information and education campaign should be carried out on all the labels for european agricultural products that are being introduced or have already been introduced. this is necessary because the lack of full consumer knowledge of the symbols will call into question the whole quality policy.
in writing. − the report of the development committee on the impact of the global financial and economic crisis on developing countries and on development cooperation rightly notes that in the last two years there has been not one but a series of interrelated crises. the situation should not lead to a reduction but to an increase in development aid to developing countries. the common objective should be to allocate 0,56% of gross national income to development aid by 2010 and 0,7% by 2015. beyond immediate relief, what is needed is action to change the architecture of the world economic order. hence my support for the immediate implementation of the commitment made at the g20 summit in pittsburgh to give at least 5% of the shares in the imf to emerging and developing countries and at least 3% of the voting rights in the world bank to developing and transition countries. these actions should be linked to the action taken to eliminate tax havens. the tobin tax is also an important systemic solution that is worth considering. given that the commission's report contains all the above-mentioned points, i have decided to vote in favour of its adoption.
in writing. − the ecb's annual report for 2008 reflects well the causes and conditions of the crisis. the year 2008, which saw the onset of the most severe phase of the economic crisis in decades, determined the direction of the world and european economies for a long time to come. the last two years have undoubtedly been the most difficult in the history of the european central bank. the bank was faced with a crisis that had a severe impact on the european economy. the increasing budget deficits in the member states, combined with the growing debt burden, are the main consequences of the macroeconomic crisis. under the treaty, the ecb has primary responsibility for price stability, or low inflation. has the bank fulfilled its task? it's hard to say for sure. while the current inflation rate is within the ecb's ceiling, it should be noted that it reached the highest level in the euro area's history in the first months of the crisis, before falling sharply thereafter. but i think that this instability can be explained by the surprise of the crisis. since october 2008, the ecb's monetary policy can be described as active and flexible. the ecb adopted a different strategy for the crisis than other leading central banks around the world. we are still awaiting the results of these activities. europe is emerging from the crisis, but the situation is still uncertain. is the ecb prepared for the possibility of another crisis, as some economists see it?
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 25 march 2010.
ten days ago, terrorists killed people again in moscow. we join in the grief of the families of the victims and hope that the perpetrators of these attacks will be found and brought to justice. the european parliament condemns and has always condemned such acts of violence. today marks the 70th anniversary of stalin's order to shoot more than 20,000 polish army officers. they were prisoners of war held in captivity after the soviet aggression against poland in september 1939. in the previous parliament, colleagues had the opportunity to watch a film about these events, entitled 'katyń'. it was also broadcast on russian public television for the first time last friday. today, april 7, the prime ministers of poland and the russian federation will pay tribute to the victims of the katyn massacre for the first time. this important step on the road to polish-russian reconciliation, and also on the road to reconciliation in the east, is also a signal for the whole of europe and the next stage in the reconciliation of the western and eastern parts of our continent, which is something we all want. (laughter) (applause) i would also like to inform you that the european commission will be represented at today's plenary session by vice-president šefčovič. president barroso is unable to be present today for important family reasons.
the minutes of the meeting of 25 march 2010 and the texts adopted at that meeting are available for consultation. the protocol has been approved.
you are right, mr. president. i agree with you. as part of this opening speech in the european parliament, we are referring to events of this kind that are happening all over the world. all the victims are remembered with great pain. we also extend our sympathy to the families, the loved ones and all the countries where this is happening. but this was a special case, because recently in russia itself such cases have not happened for a long time. that's why i changed it. but the president is absolutely right. we should remember that there are many such very depressing cases every week in the world. that is why our work in europe, in the european union, makes so much sense, and why we can be glad that many of these problems in our europe have been solved, although not all of them yet. thank you, mr. chairman, for your attention. thank you very much. thank you.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the european council and the european commission conclusions of the european council of 25 and 26 march 2010.
president of the european council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall be brief. there are some basic truths to remember. the first truth is - i have heard it from both sides here, but not enough in my opinion - that the problems we have to face were first born in a country with budgetary irregularities. they must be corrected. we must take measures to ensure that this does not happen again. so we have to start with the basics, it's a budgetary orthodoxy. that is why we created the stability and growth pact in the past. some people are calling for sanctions, for penalties, for toughness. we had the stability and growth pact, but i see that it has not helped some countries. the greek government has taken steps, courageous steps which i applaud. these were provided for in the informal council communiqué of 11 february. greece was asked to take action. she took them, she took her responsibilities. now they must be implemented, and i fully understand the delicate nature and the difficult circumstances in which the greek government must proceed. but they must be executed. the greek government is convinced that the so-called spreads will only decrease if the results of all this fiscal discipline are visible. that's his belief. the basic truth is that we must start by solving the problems at their source, that is to say, the budgetary problems of one country and of other countries. secondly, the greek government has shown itself to be in full agreement with the conclusions of the european council. you can make people happy against themselves, but they agreed. i attended their agreement, before the meeting, during the meeting and after the meeting. thirdly, they have not yet applied for financial aid. they said it again yesterday. i would like to remind you of three basic truths. secondly, we will check - mrs wortmann asked for this - with the president of parliament and others how we can cooperate with the european parliament during the period of the task force's work. as far as the task force is concerned, i agree with those who say 'we must be ambitious'. i don't take examples from the past, history never repeats itself, and certainly not in the same way. this important task force must therefore have great ambition. we must learn all the lessons of the crisis we have experienced. we have to learn the hard way. we need to be much more preventative. we must not only be very budgetary, but we must also be very preventive in the conduct of economic policy, not in the conduct of economic policy in the place of national governments. of course, the ultimate responsibility lies with them! but we can be preventative so as not to jeopardize the common currency, which is the euro, or the common market, the internal market. we can't put them in danger. and this is a responsibility of the union. we all have our responsibilities. we must therefore be much more preventive also in the economic field. i would like to remind you that the problem of competitiveness is a fundamental problem. it's not just the budgetary problems. behind and underneath the budgetary problems are the economic problems. we must tackle this, otherwise we are putting at risk - i repeat - the common currency and the common market. so let's think about all of that. this also requires, as i have just said, to draw all the necessary conclusions in terms of coordination, monitoring and certain new mechanisms which must be put in place. i have heard here in this house some very valid, very respectable ideas which need to be studied. just because i don't react to the substance doesn't mean i forget them or the working group will forget them. there are a lot of ideas that are circulating, that were put forward here this afternoon, that are very close to my heart. we'll discuss them openly in the task force. as i have just said, we will look at how we can cooperate with the european parliament during the period of the task force's work. as for the 2020 strategy, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the european commission has really grasped the essence of our european social model. there are economic objectives, environmental objectives, social objectives. this very rich concept of a socially and ecologically correct market economy is therefore a concept that is found in the objectives, in the targets. the five objectives, including the objective of social inclusion, which is a treaty competence of the union, were concluded. the conclusions were reached on social inclusion and, among other things, the fight against poverty. i can assure you that when we discussed the five objectives on friday morning, they were not called into question, and we will also come back in june with the quantifiable and quantified objectives of these five objectives. i ask those who are impatient to have a little more patience until june, but we shall achieve the goal we have set. i have fought personally, and president barroso even more than i - i say this out of courtesy - we have fought to ensure that these five objectives are included and remain on the european union's agenda. of course there have been discussions, but i believe that our colleagues in the ecofin council, which i attended, in the general affairs council, in the european council, have been convinced that this balance between the social, economic and ecological aspects should be maintained in the approach of the 2020 strategy. if we have not yet refined everything, i can assure you that in june it will be done. there is also, as some have rightly pointed out, the whole problem of financial regulation. we tend to forget that very quickly. but we have to keep working on it. the european parliament has an important job to do in financial regulation. but at the g20 we agreed on a whole programme, because a number of measures can only be taken at global level, and i hope - and we will do everything to ensure that this happens - that the union's voice, a strong and united voice, will be heard. the g20 did a very good job at the beginning of the crisis. he must be doing well in the post-recession era. the crisis is not quite over yet, but the recession is over. as i said in my introductory speech, it is much more difficult to reach agreements when things are going a little better than when you are in the middle of a storm, in the middle of problems. the g20, with the help of the european union, which created the g20, has a very important agenda in june in toronto and, during the second half of the year, in south korea. i really believe that we had a european council which avoided the worst - that is also sometimes a political objective - and which laid the foundations for a solidarity mechanism. i repeat that greece has made a great effort with regard to the budget, is not asking for anything today and has agreed to this mechanism. we have concluded an economic strategy with five objectives, not sixty but five. we're going to implement them nationally. in june all governments are expected to present their plans for the coming years. we'll take a look at it. i think we really laid the groundwork for a future action. the task force is, shall we say, the wisdom itself. how can we improvise all this? to those who are impatient, i say that at the end of the year, and it's a short period of time, we have only nine months but in nine months we can do a lot in nature, right? but in nine months we will try to complete an ambitious work to ensure that the crisis we experienced never happens again. (applause) i would like to thank
thank you, mr. chairman. thank you for your direct response to the comments that were made. there were some critical remarks that we all heard. they're needed in this discussion. we're talking about the most important issue, and not just how to get out of the crisis, how to help a country in distress, a member of the eurozone, but also how to grow for the next ten years. so this is a crucial issue. and then there's the climate issues. i also thank you very much, mr president, for your prompt response to certain matters. the task forces will of course be discussing the arrangements between the three european institutions on an ongoing basis so that we can work out a common strategy. the european parliament is absolutely ready to do so.
i was invited to the european council meeting to give an introductory speech, which is available on the internet – i can send it to you by e-mail as well. i hope it will be taken into account; i presented the position of the european parliament, of course. we had a discussion on the same day about the crisis in greece and some other points. generally, it was a presentation of the position of the european parliament. i spoke for about 15-20 minutes on the most important points. you can read it; i will send it to you. regarding the united states, i shall be leaving for there in two weeks’ time, so it will be possible also to talk about your proposal.
othmar karas is, of course, from austria, but he was talking on behalf of herbert reul.
mr president, we cannot anticipate crises and nor will we be able to prevent another one from happening in the future. we are in pretty good company on this, if that is any consolation. however, our punishment should be to learn the lessons that the crisis has given and to use all the opportunities it has generated. for this we – the european parliament, the european commission and the council – have no other choice but to work hand in hand and to convert those lessons into the wise, smart and truly european policies that citizens need. i am convinced we do not have the luxury of being patient, and a sense of urgency should be with us all the time. there is a high risk that the financial and real economic crisis might turn into a public-debt crisis. that is why there is nothing more urgent today than to find a new source of economic, social and political energy to start growing in a sustainable way. the new treaty makes it clear where that energy should come from: europe is much more than the european institutions and national governments. its tasks are shared between the european, national, regional and local levels of governance, and i believe that we can re-energise europe by taking seriously its multi-level governance system to provide eu 2020 delivery mechanisms. the regional and local levels of european governance are important co-owners of europe’s future. they are capable of harnessing not only the growing number of policy tools which they have at their disposal, but also the enthusiasm of all the partners which europe needs: business, academia and civil society. they are also able to translate common european goals into their own territorial growth and job strategies. europe will only be able to do its job if we truly understand that european tasks and responsibilities must be shared in a well-orchestrated way between european, national, regional and local levels of governance. engaging local and regional europe into the pursuit of common european objectives within the eu 2020 framework enlarges europe’s potential and our chances for growth.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i wish to thank the honourable members for their speeches, questions and proposals. i would like to answer telegraphically some of those questions. i agree with those meps who have been calling for respect for the rules. i am sure that, if we respected them better, we would not be in this situation. we work very hard on agreeing the rules, so once we have them we definitely should respect them. the commission will do its utmost to enforce them even better in the future. when it comes to the division of labour – what the commission and what the member states should do under the eu 2020 strategy – we now have a quite detailed description of the level on which the eu should act, and on what level the member states should act. we will elaborate a bit further on this when we come forward with a concrete proposal on how to deliver and put in place the flagship projects. this will be quite detailed. it will be a measure-by-measure description. i can assure you that it is the commission’s utmost ambition to deliver on this very important strategy. part of this, of course, involves getting rid of unnecessary barriers and better using the potential of the single market, and using what europe can offer in a much more efficient and better way. we will be doing this at the level of the commission, but at the same time we also expect input from the member states as to where they see that the single market could be used better and where they see that there are barriers still in place which we should work on to erase. when it comes to economic governance and better economic coordination, we intend to use fully the lisbon treaty provisions and will be coming forward with initial proposals in this area this spring. when it comes to governance and eu 2020, we are looking for an adequate balance in how to motivate the member states in a positive way, and at the same time how to ask for better, stronger, efforts from their side. we believe that this time we have found an adequate method and that its delivery should be much better than it was before. we will, of course, be working on monitoring and evaluations, together with parliament, so will have a very good opportunity to discuss this in detail. when it comes to transatlantic cooperation, the commission is committed to further advancing the transatlantic economic council and its work. at the same time, we are also committed to the doha round because we believe that the conclusions of the doha round will open new doors for improved world trade and for improved situations in developing countries. a lot of members spoke on the issue of greece. here again i would like to underline that we have created a eurozone mechanism – with the imf, but it is still a eurozone mechanism, and we have to stress that. this was the best solution we could find under very challenging circumstances. when it comes to another argument that i have heard, which is that eu 2020 is too much on the side of dirigisme, i cannot agree. we are trying to find a way to mobilise and activate the different levels through which we can achieve the most efficient actions and the best possible course of events. we would like to do this in a complementary way, so that each level supports the others. when it comes to smes, the heart of the strategy, and what we are hearing from them, is that they are asking us for is a level playing field across europe and for a reduction in the administrative burden. that is exactly what we would like to achieve. when it comes to the agriculture, this has certainly been present in the european 2020 strategy from the outset, but we should not view eu 2020 as an exhaustive list of everything we should do in the future or an exhaustive list of how we should treat agriculture in the future. very soon we will have a very important debate on the budget review, and that would be the right moment to discuss the future not only of agriculture, but also of other policies, in greater detail.
this is a crucial debate for us, so it is necessary to sit here and discuss further.
president of the european council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i will be very brief after the reply given by the vice-president of the european commission. i would just like to emphasize a few points. first, the famous mechanism that has been put in place for the greek crisis, as it is called, in the last few weeks, in the last few months, unfortunately. many of you have called for more europe. that is a fine speech, but we must work within the framework of the lisbon treaty. the treaty of lisbon is very clear. it does not provide for so-called bail-out clauses. he didn't plan for this kind of situation. so, we have to find something. after having demanded that the greek government be held accountable - which it has done, and has taken action - a financial aid mechanism must be devised which respects the letter and spirit of the lisbon treaty. this is why the european commission has proposed a mechanism of bilateral loan syndicates managed by the commission. this is why many member states, including the dutch parliament, have called for the international monetary fund to intervene. it's not just a few governments that have demanded it; it's a lot more than a few people have asked for. why would you do that? because they had recently paid money to the international monetary fund so that it could actually fulfill its mission of timely financial aid. well europe has contributed a very large part. as prime minister of belgium, i have contributed five billion euros to my country, and some members have asked themselves, why should not the international monetary fund use the funds available to it to help a european country, after the efforts made by european countries? and so, we had to find something, a trade, something creative that respects the treaty. for those who want more from europe, the first thing they have to do is to work - i repeat - in the spirit of the lisbon treaty. and the mechanism is, of course, a compromise mechanism, and it is a mechanism that had to be found because of other mechanisms that were not provided for in the lisbon treaty. ladies and gentlemen, the greek government has not asked for a review of the agreement of two weeks ago, not at all. the greek minister for finance made this quite clear yesterday. he did not ask, i repeat again, for financial help. he hopes that once the results of his efforts are visible, spreads will decrease. so it is very damaging for the greek taxpayers to start all sorts of declarations and rumours, because not only does this not help anyone, but it is also to the detriment of those who have to suffer a number of measures because they have not acted in time in their country before. as for economic governance, mr šefčovič said, let us be very clear, the european council is working within its mandate as described in article 15 of the treaty. it gives impetus and sets the broad guidelines of the policy to be followed, but it is not an executive power, it is not a legislative power. so it's not a government in the constitutional sense of the word, not at all. but it coordinates, it monitors, it gives a certain dynamism and, as the treaty has so well described, it gives impulses. that is the political meaning of economic government, but not in the constitutional sense of the term, not at all. there's a lot of work to be done. some people have asked me whether sanctions have been applied or provided for when certain economic and employment directives are not respected. well, in that case, we have to change the treaty, we have to amend it. sanctions can only be applied where the treaty so provides. the treaty does not provide for that. should this be discussed in the task force? if there are proposals on the table, we will discuss them, but we cannot impose sanctions that are contrary to the lisbon treaty. now, as far as a free trade area between the united states, europe and others is concerned, i believe that the biggest work to be done is the work that mr pascal lamy and others are doing to make the doha round a success. i think that's the first priority. he sounded an alarm, and rightly so. we have certainly avoided a great movement of protectionism in europe. we have avoided that, but we must do more, we must go further. and in fact, we have, in three areas, very big challenges. we have the climate challenge, for which there is the copenhagen agreement, but what we have promised to reduce co2 emissions is not enough to meet the few targets that were provided for in the copenhagen agreement, that is to say the objective of not raising the temperature by more than 2 degrees compared to a pre-industrial period. in addition to the climate challenge, there is the challenge for global trade and there is the challenge for international financial regulation; some of you have spoken about it quite rightly. so we have a very important international agenda, and europe has to play a very important role in the g20 and in other bodies if we are to make progress globally and globally. the internal market, why not in the five objectives? well, the internal market is an instrument, and it has to be organised through many of these objectives. in the field of research and development and other areas, the full potential of the internal market must be used. we have to go deeper, but that's not an end in itself. it's an instrument, but an important instrument. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: but it's an extremely important asset. there is a common currency, and there is a common market. it must be deepened in the interests of more growth and more jobs. some of you have asked what the purpose of all this is. the aim is to have sufficient economic growth to finance our social model adequately, and it is also in the service of a european union which wants to play a role in the world and which cannot play it unless there is a greater economic force present. we cannot play a role in our world unless we are really, economically, a great, a very great force. i would like to answer mrs van brempt in the netherlands, because she asked me the question. i don't really understand why they think it's a disgrace. it is for the first time that five central objectives of the fight against poverty are included in the report and it is a shame that we have not yet seen enough and that we must do a reexamination. it's the first time. so i am satisfied, even proud, that together with the commission we have fought that battle and that we have been able to achieve the five objectives of combating social exclusion and combating poverty. it is natural to find out what good indicators are. they are not so easy to find, much less easy than they think. i have not at all felt that i should appear for a re-examination in june. in june we will normally continue to implement the decision we made on 25 march. so i am very satisfied that we have broken with the past and that we have made van de armoede a top priority in the european union. mr president, i shall confine myself to these few remarks and observations. if i have not answered all the comments, i repeat, it is not because i have not listened carefully, but because we do not have enough time. there were many speeches that were remarks, not questions. so i've recorded them and i'll think about it. in any case, i thank you for your important and interesting contribution to this debate on a subject which is essential for the european union, namely this strategy on the so-called 'jobs and growth', the 2020 strategy.
i am quite sure that not only ms van brempt but also at least 300 other colleagues are listening in their rooms, because there is the opportunity to listen to the debate there. at least eight committees of the european parliament work directly with the 2020 strategy, and the rest indirectly, so we are highly committed and we are open for further discussion, cooperation and preparing details on how to organise it. this is a very important discussion for all of us. thank you very much for coming, thank you both for such a deep and broad discussion on this topic, mr president of the european council and mr vice-president of the commission, and thank you, colleagues, for the discussion. written statements (rule 149)
in writing. in the face of the demographic processes taking place in europe among the local population and the economic crisis, a well-designed strategic action plan has my full support. the europe 2020 strategy should enable us to effectively combat the effects of these negative developments so that our continent is ready to face the challenges of the next decade in a globally competitive environment. i hope that a good information campaign will be carried out among the citizens of the member states so that they can use the powers granted to them by the lisbon treaty and influence the planning and then the implementation of the strategy through actions at regional, county, municipal, municipal and smaller local community level. i agree that the strategic priorities themselves - sustainable growth, a knowledge-based and innovative economy, investment in citizens' education and building a society free of economic divisions and poverty - are well articulated. this should be followed by the rapid development of the implementation mechanisms and the establishment of the implementation timetable. i look forward to a good, comprehensive cooperation in this area. i stress that the europe 2020 strategy must take account of the huge differences in the level of development and potential of the different regions. if we forget to adapt the timetable and the means of achieving our strategic objectives to the specific characteristics of the different parts of the eu, i fear that our work may not produce the results we expect.
in writing. the 2020 strategy adopted by the european council is unacceptable to me as a socialist. the strategic objective (combating poverty) and the means to achieve it are not clearly defined. poverty affects 80 million (20%) of europeans. 17% have incomes so low that they can't meet their basic needs. it's not just an economic problem, it's a human rights violation. poverty leads to health loss, to lack of access to education, to homelessness, to discrimination, to social exclusion. according to a 2008 report by the european commission, one in five poles (19%) live below the poverty line and 26% of children live in poverty (the highest rate in the union). we need a long-term strategy to fight poverty as an integral part of eu policy. the strategy should be supported by reform of the common agricultural policy, as proposed by my group. it is necessary to ensure food security in all its aspects (physical and economic availability of food meeting high health and quality requirements) for all union citizens. the 2020 strategy will only be a valuable document for eu citizens if it takes social objectives into account. i therefore ask the commission and the council to: 1. make the fight against poverty the main strategic objective of action; 2. set and precisely quantify specific objectives for the systematic reduction of poverty; 3. develop and adopt (at the june summit) specific indicators; 4. set deadlines for the achievement of the individual sub-objectives.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the last european summit was an attempt to develop a new strategy for the euro area and to get out of the economic crisis. european leaders agreed that economic policy coordination in europe should be strengthened by defining future common guidelines and developing an early warning system for member states in the face of economic problems. the aftermath of the global financial crisis is a good opportunity for europe to strengthen its internal integration and cooperation. now is the time to take advantage of the undeniable benefits of european integration and take the european project to the next level. the summit was optimistic and promising, but we must be careful that this attempt to devise a new economic strategy for europe does not end up as spectacularly as the lisbon strategy, which was supposed to transform the european union into the most dynamic knowledge-based economy. thank you. thank you.
in writing. there is no doubt that the situation of the greek economy is causing a lot of excitement. its catastrophic state is both a result of the global crisis and the negligence of the government in athens. this is due to the lack of major reforms and the too loose interpretation of macroeconomic data. greece is on the verge of bankruptcy today. the country will suffer the effects of today's economic collapse for many years to come. i therefore looked with great interest at the proposed forms of support which the council intends to provide to greece. i am glad that this country can count on aid, but it should be combined with immediate and radical reforms of public finances. our response to the crisis in greece must be a clear signal to other member states facing similar problems that strong internal reforms are the way out.
in writing. the council conclusions of 25/26 march 2010 contained a provision stating the intention to strengthen the coordination of the economic policies of the member states by making better use of the instruments provided for in article 121 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the economic crisis, especially in its early stages, has given rise to numerous examples of protectionist practices, which have often raised doubts about the eu's competition rules. will the increased coordination of the economic policies of the member states and the better use of the instruments referred to in article 121 tfeu prevent similar practices from recurring in the future? if so, how?
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on wednesday, 7 april 2010.
the written declaration no 0071/2009 by elizabeth lynne, michaila tremopoulosa, lívia járóká and lidia joanna geringer de oedenberg on the fight against breast cancer in the european union was signed by more than half of the members of parliament. it will therefore be circulated to the addressees and published in the texts adopted at the meeting of 24 february 2010, in accordance with rule 123 of the rules of procedure, and the names of the signatories will be entered in the minutes of the meeting.
i would like to thank our colleague and all of you who signed this resolution.
before we begin the session, i would like to say that our thoughts, our prayers are with the relatives of the victims and the injured in the train disaster that occurred last week in northern italy. it was, as we all remember, a very serious railway accident. i would also like to thank all of you, members and staff of parliament, for coming and for organising a celebration for many members of parliament on wednesday at 12 noon last week in connection with the polish plane crash. yesterday was the funeral of the president of poland, today was the funeral of the president of poland in exile. last wednesday we observed a minute's silence in memory of the victims of this disaster. i just wanted to thank you again for this act of solidarity.
i would like to thank all of us in this room, because we overcame very great transport difficulties and arrived in strasbourg. not everyone has. an emergency meeting of the conference of presidents just ended a few minutes ago. the political group chairmen have specific proposals for the state, which have been agreed and supported by the chairmen of all the political groups. they all come down to the fact that we will not have a plenary session on thursday, so there will be no agenda on thursday. at the same time, on thursday and friday, as usual, the list can be signed and the members can work. there is no plenary session, no item of business, but the work is of course our responsibility and those who sign the list on thursday and friday are treated normally, as always on thursday and friday. i also wanted to emphasize that there will be no votes this week, neither in the plenary session nor during committee meetings, if they are called. the committee may meet, even on thursdays, but without a vote. that's what we decided. the reason for this is that not all of our colleagues were able to physically come and we cannot deny them the right to participate in this session. so it has nothing to do with the quorum, because the quorum is likely to be, but it has to do with the fact that not everyone was able to make it to the session. the postponement of the vote is not a threat from the legal point of view, our obligations to the council, it is important because we postpone the vote for two weeks, it will be at the may session in brussels. from the point of view of our cooperation with the council of ministers, the agreements, the second readings, it is to be done. i also wanted to let you know that there was a very important reason that we had to meet and discuss this in the form that we are in, because tomorrow is an extraordinary point that we didn't anticipate. tomorrow morning's item is on the current transport situation in europe and its implications for european citizens. tomorrow, during a two-hour debate in the presence of mr barroso, president of the european commission, we will reflect on the situation in europe, because mobility has fallen, airlines are at risk, we are also facing unemployment in those places where there are large ports and where european airlines may fail if they do not have passenger services for many days. so this is a serious threat to the citizens of europe and that is why the debate tomorrow morning is crucial. this is a new item, because the situation in the european union is difficult and we have to think about it seriously. all other items except for some thursdays will be implemented. i also want to inform you that on april 7th of this year, i received a letter from mr. nigel farage, member of parliament. in it, the co-chair of the europe of freedom and democracy group invokes rule 6 (3) of the rules of procedure and lodges a formal complaint for infringement of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union. i have referred the request contained in the letter from mr. farage to the appropriate committee for consideration.
the final draft agenda, drawn up in accordance with rule 137 of the rules of procedure, was distributed by the conference of presidents at its meeting on monday 19 april 2010. the following amendments are proposed: ((first part of the amendments: see previous paragraph)
i must admit that i didn't quite understand your point, because you responded very well, but let's leave this discussion.
thank you for your attention. i take all of your comments very seriously, but i wanted to tell you that all the political groups and their representatives have agreed to the changes i'm about to propose.
ladies and gentlemen! i'll give you a vote after the agenda is set.
colleagues, this is my proposal to you. we shall start now with the agenda and after the agenda we can start again with all your questions about the part-session on 5 and 6 may. we will decide later; it is not necessary to decide that now. the only thing is that the votes will be held on 5 and 6 may. all the decisions will be taken later. we will start with the agenda. i do not want any further points of order now.
the final draft agenda for the april part-session was circulated, proposing the following amendments (rule 140): monday: unchanged tuesday: the meeting will begin at 9.00 a.m. with statements from the council and the european commission on the suspension of air traffic in europe. the debate will continue until 11 a.m. the following items will be discussed from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m.: the statement by president barroso on the european commission's legislative and work programme for 2010 and the commission's statement on the coordination of humanitarian aid and reconstruction in haiti. the vote will not take place on that day. wednesday: the same. the vote will not take place on that day. thursday: the meeting will not take place. (the order of business has been set)
the next item on the agenda is a one-minute speech on a major political issue.
if i may give you my answer: i will take what you have said very seriously. we have two days: 5 and 6 may. we will decide how to proceed with the votes scheduled for 5 and 6 may, and how to divide them.
i just wanted to make a point before i left. as you know, rule 150 of the rules of procedure allows for one-minute speeches. experience shows that we receive more than twice as many requests to vote as we can accommodate given the time available. inevitably, the disappointment was expressed by members who had been waiting for a vote and then did not get one. to avoid further uncertainty and disappointment, i intend to follow the following procedure for one-minute speeches in the future. in accordance with rule 150, a list of 30 speakers will be drawn up, who will be chosen in such a way as to ensure a balanced political and geographical representation. priority shall be given to those members who were not given the opportunity to speak for one minute during the previous two partsession. all members who apply to be allowed to vote shall be informed in advance whether they have been selected to vote or not. members elected to the floor are expected to be present in the chamber when they are called upon to deliver a one-minute speech.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw attention to the issue of genetically modified food. the european commission is working on a proposal to amend eu law to give member states more freedom to decide whether they want to use genetically modified organisms in their country, as eu law currently does not allow member states to ban gmos. the european commission will soon propose that individual member states can decide to grow genetically modified crops. decisions on the import and processing of gmos would, however, continue to be taken at union level. in this context, it is necessary to consider whether specific labelling of gmo-free products should not be introduced. such labelling should be clear and generally recognisable so that the european consumer knows that the product he is buying is not produced from animals that have been fed genetically modified feed. therefore, a specific marking pattern should be considered.
thank you for your attention. we'll start applying the new rules from the brussels meeting. the brussels session will be the first under the new rules.
madam president, my nation has suffered a great tragedy, the president, the head of the central bank, the commander of the army have been killed. yesterday was the funeral of the president and his wife. i would like to thank you very much for the expressions of solidarity that have come from so many of the member states of the european union. the concept of european solidarity in this matter has worked and is very important for us poles. the presidents of the czech republic, slovakia, hungary, germany, lithuania, latvia, romania, slovenia, and the prime minister of estonia were present. i wish there were a president of the council and a president of the european commission. they couldn't come, but the prime ministers of azerbaijan, armenia and georgia came, and they had to go on. to all those who were present, i thank you for your expressions of solidarity.
the financial and economic crisis has hit the poorest of the poor hardest. to meet their needs, the european union has declared 2010 the year of the fight against poverty and social exclusion. it is estimated that more than 40 million people in europe live in poverty and nearly 40 million more are at risk of poverty. what's particularly sad is that a quarter of that number, 20 million, are children. the problems they face are not just lack of food, medical care, and clothing, but more importantly, lack of prospects for improvement and escape from poverty. the first thing that can be done to change this tragic situation is to provide a high-quality education. the need is most evident in small towns and rural areas, far from the great academic centers. so i think the basic solution to this is to increase funding for scholarship programs for poor youth.
in writing. the delegation procedure, although it remains in the shadows, is a very important qualitative change introduced by the lisbon treaty. it should be seen as complementary to the treaty, without which parliament's position vis-à-vis the other institutions in the decision-making process will not be fully strengthened. only through this procedure will we gain full legislative powers and insight into the process of implementing the legislation in question. we are well aware of the frustration of the arduous process of negotiating with the council in the codecision procedure and of the uncompromising implementation of a decision. until now, 'comitology' has been an expression of member states' lack of confidence in the commission, but now parliament's insight into the implementation of a given legal act gives this process greater legitimacy. parliament and, indirectly, eu citizens will be closer to implementing eu law, and this is how we should view the delegation procedure. but for it to make sense, parliament must have full access to information, and i agree entirely with the participants in the debate.
in writing. the introduction of the delegation of legislative power is intended to ensure that legislation, especially of a technical nature, is supplemented and updated more efficiently without the need to initiate a full legislative procedure. delegation of power should therefore be seen as a tool for better eu lawmaking. at the same time, it is necessary to ensure appropriate control of the commission's use of the powers conferred on it. parliament and the council must, inter alia, have sufficient time to exercise their right to object to the proposed regulation. however, they must first of all have appropriate access to the documents, analyses and opinions produced during the preparatory work for the draft delegated acts. only in this way can the commission's power to adopt delegated acts genuinely contribute to streamlining the legislative process in the union, while maintaining the necessary control and transparency of the commission's activities. at the same time, it is necessary to develop appropriate cooperation mechanisms between parliament and the commission so that parliament is kept up to date on the preparatory work in progress and has the opportunity to gain a good understanding of the substance of the issues under consideration. the resolution on delegation of legislative powers, which is the result of a compromise between all political groups, properly addresses these issues and deserves the support of parliament.
member of the commission. − madam president, i thank mrs ţicău for her very positive evaluation of the approach to the blacklist. the commission is convinced that the existing measures already provide for a very high level of information and rights to the public for flights within and outside the european union. the list of airlines banned within the european union is made widely available to the public on the internet and by targeted information actions. the commission liaises closely with european and international travel agent associations each time the list is updated. this allows them to be in the best possible position to aid the passengers. national civil aviation authorities and airports in the territory of member states are obliged to bring the eu list to the attention of passengers, both via their websites and, where relevant, on their premises as well. the list provides useful information to people wishing to travel outside the european union in order for them to avoid travelling with these airlines. the list has no extra-territorial effect – it does not apply outside the european union. hence, the regulation establishes passengers’ rights to know the identity of every airline they fly with throughout their trip. the contracting carrier – or travel agent or tour operator – is required to inform passengers when making a reservation of the identity of the air carrier or carriers effectively operating the flight. the passenger must also be kept informed of any change of operating carrier, either at check-in or, at the latest, when boarding. the regulation also gives passengers the right to reimbursement or re-routing if a carrier with which a booking has been made is subsequently added to the list, resulting in cancellation of the flight concerned. different sources of information are used to monitor and assess the compliance of operators with international safety standards, namely the safety audits carried out by the international civil aviation organisation, the information provided by competent authorities of third countries, the information provided by the european aviation safety agency in the framework of its inspections and investigations within the european union or technical missions outside the european union, the results of the ramp checks carried out on aircraft or air carriers at eu airports in the framework of the safety assessment of foreign aircraft programme, according to the requirements of the relevant eu rules, and, finally, substantiated accident-related information stemming from accident or serious incident investigation reports. i should also mention that the european commission does not at this stage have a comprehensive list of the countries which have similar legislation but several states – the republic of korea, bahrain and the kingdom of saudi arabia – apply the same restrictions as those defined in the european list. i can confirm that the commission is ready to work with parliament to really improve this blacklist legislation, but it provides for much-needed safety in the air.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i hope, but there is no guarantee that the effects of the icelandic volcano will not be passed on to european passengers in terms of ticket prices, because indeed you are right, these disruptions in air traffic will be compensated for by probably higher ticket prices. this is worth saying in the interest of the european consumer. the european parliament is once again taking a vote on this matter. it's a reflection of how much we care. i spoke about this a few months ago, and many of you also spoke about it then, i remember the last parliament, and we also spoke about it very loudly then. and then, a personal reflection: one of the journalists of the most influential polish newspaper asked me: what do you do in the european parliament, after all, it is such an insignificant matter. it was only with time that the media began to become aware of the fact that this was a very important issue, a security issue and an absolutely fundamental issue from the point of view of the interests of european citizens, taxpayers, voters and consumers. it is unnatural that we know what the blacklist is like inside the european union and we don't know what it is like outside the european union. this is a completely schizophrenic situation. the last very important point: it cannot be that european passengers pay extra for safety, but this is a matter for the states and governments.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank you for the questions. it has definitely demonstrated that this house is very strongly behind the blacklist approach. i can promise, on behalf of vice-president kallas, that we will improve the communication to the parliament on these issues. i can also promise that all the questions that have been asked will be forwarded for a written answer because if i follow up with answers to the questions i will definitely not be able to do so in the remaining one and a half minutes. i will, therefore, cover some of them but not because i would not be able to answer all the questions asked. firstly, international aspects: the commission works in directions such as making every possible effort to strengthen international cooperation with third countries by encouraging states to join the safety assessment of a foreign aircraft programme which encompasses all the 40 states in europe, but also through technical assistance projects to achieve the worldwide standards. we also work very much with icao. we participated in the icao high-level safety conference at the end of march in montreal and also we are currently negotiating a memorandum of cooperation allowing further cooperation with icao. you are right, we need a global approach to this issue, but we should not underestimate the results that a blacklist approach makes on other countries. i will mention an example from indonesia that was asked of me. indonesia has invested a lot of effort to modernise its aviation system including its legislation, the organisation of the authority and, by doing so, the procedures for certification, an oversight of the airlines established in this country. to date it has demonstrated that it has achieved significant improvement in the case of four air carriers: garuda, airfast, mandala and premier. that has been achieved with the help of the commission and also with the member states and the industry. it is a process requiring adequate resources, but the commission is very closely cooperating with these authorities and carriers in this country to allow further positive developments. our approach definitely encourages countries to change their approach to aviation safety and that is only one example. i shall end with a particularly important issue raised, that of consumer information. we require the travel agents to inform orally and/or in writing passengers at the time of reservation. also, travel agents often require that if passengers agree to travel with a banned carrier that they renounce any rights to claim compensation later, but i will be happy to answer all the questions also in writing because i see that i am using up your kindness, madam president.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in response to questions from mr brian simpson, i would ask the commission to clarify further assumptions and plans relating to the safety of passengers of member states travelling by airlines which, in the course of domestic flights within airspace outside the jurisdiction of the european union, are in flagrant breach of the rules and thus endanger passengers. i propose that the commission, through the action of my high representative, work towards an international agreement on this matter which would become a guarantee of our common security. i would also like to see the list provided with accurate information about the carrier, including all data and statistics, indicating the risks to passengers in terms of both safety and comfort.
in writing. today's discussion is without doubt crucial for the safety of passengers using air transport in the european union. i welcome the fact that the member states of the community are complying with icao standards on international air navigation rules and techniques. it is clear, however, that air transport is not limited to the european union airspace. the question is how to ensure the safety of eu citizens outside the eu. in my view, the european commission should encourage non-eu countries to co-create a 'blacklist' based on eu standards, or it should take the lead in creating a global 'blacklist'. i would also like to draw attention to a possible problem: does the commission, when monitoring companies on the blacklist, also monitor in detail the entire fleet of the company? it may happen that the aircraft is not used by the airline on the blacklist, for example by another company under another flag chartering single aircraft.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i would like to start by thanking the rapporteur, mr leichtfriede, for his excellent work and cooperation in the preparation of this document. we had to answer four questions, but before we did, we had to set a goal, which was to protect the interests of the airline passengers, and that was our most important goal. the four questions we asked ourselves were about transparency, which is to say, which groups could possibly be allowed to participate in the procedure. the question was the scope of the directive, i.e. at which airports the directive could be applied. the commission has not been able to answer a very important question, and together with mr leichtfried, whom i thank in particular, we have been able to find a solution concerning the cofinancing. the more stringent measures are to be financed by the states. the question of the competence of the independent body to oversee the way in which the air safety charges are set. in the course of this work, we have developed a common position which i consider to be very ambitious. this is the challenge for the council and the commission today. i believe that we, as airline passengers, unlike passengers on ships, cars and trains, should not have to pay for this kind of security. it is a hand outstretched to the council, it is a compromise position, and i expect an equally ambitious position from the council today.
in writing. the situation of european union maritime transport can lead to ambiguous conclusions. on the one hand, the data presented show that flags of the member states have a huge share in global transport, as well as in intra-eu transport. the community is given a strong emphasis on the implementation of new technologies and organisational arrangements, particularly those relating to environmental protection and improving the living standards of seafarers. on the other hand, there is increasing competition from third countries, especially from the so-called flag states. the reluctance of young people to take up work in this undoubtedly difficult sector is also becoming more and more evident. in summary, the current state of the eu maritime transport market is not bad, but the outlook is not optimistic. however, my personal priority is to promote inland navigation and to ensure optimum connections between sea and inland freight transport. i represent the upper oder region and i see how little use is made of the potential of the river ports in this area, especially as a transport route linking the inland areas of the czech republic, poland and germany with the seaport of szczecin. this issue should also be borne in mind in the context of eu maritime transport, so that the actions undertaken under this policy contribute to the development of the whole community area, not just the coastal areas.
mr president, europeana is a landmark project that can make europe's cultural heritage accessible to the whole world. and we know that it's not just a library, but it's also a virtual museum and archive. i wish that every single one of us in this room could say that the works of great national artists, like in my case chopin, marie curie-skłodowska, or slovakia, could be shared online. three key elements: first, in the case of europeana, we cannot afford to lower the quality, which is something we should be careful about in this project. second, the copyright issue for orphaned and unreprinted works needs to be resolved. and thirdly, a big request to the commissioner to speed up the digitisation in the member states if we want to be proud of this great flagship project in the future. i would like to thank mrs trüpel for her excellent report.
my political group and i personally are not particularly in favour of extended programmes, extended institutions, creating beings beyond need. but europeana is not that kind of creature. this is actually something very important. especially since we live in a culture of images, not a culture of writing. what this means is that, as neil postmann points out in his great book, "entertain yourself to death", this image culture is degrading public debate, it's making us worse citizens. and that means that if this project has a chance to improve literacy, it has a chance to improve citizenship, and in this way the european union would contribute to strengthening the quality of education of its citizens, the way they function, and thus in the nation states these citizens would be more active, smarter, better citizens.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, and of course especially mrs trüpel, we are absolutely fascinated by your report. we welcome it. i think that indeed ‘europeana – the next steps’ is just a start of a very challenging adventure and it shows, by the way, the strong political support for the further development of europeana as a common access point to europe’s rich and diverse cultural heritage in the digital age. so i would like to thank mrs trüpel, the rapporteur, for the work she has done and also give her my compliments for the branding, since the branding itself is already unique: ‘europeana’ – you do not need to explain what it is all about. the commission can also support the alternative motion for a resolution, which has the agreement of the main political groups in parliament, i have been informed. it is an ambitious project and again, i repeat, it is the start. it aims to make digitised books, newspapers, maps, museum objects, audiovisual material and sound archives from across europe available on the internet. that is essential to ensure access to culture in the digital age. it is not only what mr migalski said: something that makes us better citizens. well, let us wait and find out, but, anyhow, it gives an opportunity to be more happy, for enjoying culture is in most cases enjoying happiness, so to speak. it is parliament’s report that rightly underlines that there is also an economic component. the digitisation and the online accessibility of our cultural heritage will benefit different sectors of activity: think of education, research, tourism and the media. the europeana site is the result of an unprecedented collaboration between european libraries, archives and museums. at present, as was rightly mentioned by mrs trüpel, it gives direct access to seven million digitised objects. again, this is just a start and let us go for it. more can be done and more needs to be done. the parliament report highlights different areas for europeana and for the related policies where progress must be made in the coming years. the development of the site depends in the first place on the input from member states who should do more to digitise their cultural heritage and to make all digitised objects available through europeana. i am glad that parliament joins the commission in asking member states to make fast progress in doing so. the sooner the better. parliament underlines that europeana should not just give access to public domain works, but should also include material that is still in copyright. indeed, there is an urgent need – and that is my answer to mrs ţicău – to find workable solutions for bringing out-of-print works online, for dealing with the issue of orphan works (works for which it is impossible to locate the rights holders). failing to do so bears the risk that europe will lag behind within a few years from now, in particular compared to the us. at present, the commission is carrying out an impact assessment on a possible legal solution for orphan works at european level and we are discussing what could be done, but if you do not mind, i will come back to that when we talk of the digital agenda, for that is one of the issues that we have to touch upon. an enhanced version of europeana will be launched later this year, and is expected to give, by then, access to more than 10 million digitised objects. the site will be further developed in the years thereafter. parliament rightly points out that for the success of europeana it is a must to increase the awareness of the site both among cultural institutions, who could contribute their digitised content, and among the general public. special attention should be given to younger people, rightly mentioned by you, an extremely important part of our population, who could be targeted through the schools. the commission is fully committed to continuing work on the development of europeana and the policies related to it and that will be a key area of work in the european digital agenda. it is anyhow worthwhile to fight for it.
in writing. the european digital library europeana is currently facing many challenges. the success of this pan-european venture is far from pre-determined. first, because europeana has so far mainly featured works from a few of the most active countries. secondly, it's not the contemporary works that would be most interesting, but the older works, the so-called public domain. i would like to draw particular attention to one aspect of the europeana project which i believe is crucial to its success: funding. the process of expanding digital collections is very expensive and will take many years. europeana, meanwhile, is only funded until 2013 under a project part-funded by the european commission, the member states and private sponsors. i believe it is necessary to ensure stable sources of funding in the new financial perspective for 2014-2020. european funds in the form of grants to individual cultural institutions from the member states should encourage them to digitize collections more effectively. at the same time, mandatory digitisation targets should be introduced, which member states will have to achieve within a certain timeframe. only a consistent 'carrot and stick' strategy will ensure that europeana becomes an attractive portal able to capture the interest of readers and researchers, rather than a 'digital' attic where old junk is stored for sentiment.
mr. chairman, please! i'm impressed with the comprehensive approach to the case in this report. but i have very simple questions: what is the real responsibility, the impact, the impact of agriculture on climate change, i think both positive and negative? can we say that the science, our experience, is strong enough to expect such a large increase in the costs of countering the not-so-defined warming? the need to combat the effects of the economic crisis, unemployment and other difficult problems of our socioeconomic situation in the union is so urgent. to what extent does the cap already implement climate protection requirements and what instruments can be used in the cap in this respect in the future?
mr. chairman, please! subsidies to european agriculture are not up for debate. the main causes of this are the different production conditions, whether in terms of climate, soil quality, water availability, location or socio-historical conditions. most of them have a significant impact on production and economic performance. they have had an impact on the existing components of the common agricultural policy. i share the author's views and concerns about the lack of foreseeable consequences of the new approach. are the standards so wrong? we're expecting a full calculation and a more in-depth analysis of the effects. the important question is how to maintain agricultural production in difficult-to-manage areas. in my view, support for these areas requires continued support under the common agricultural policy in the future at an appropriate level.
mr. chairman, please! simplifying the common agricultural policy is a beautiful idea and hardly anyone is against it. simplification means reducing the number of checks, reducing administrative costs, saving the farmer time. it's really great. but i want to point out two cases that require a slightly different approach. firstly, there are special production units where it is difficult to simplify the support instruments; i am thinking here of tobacco, hops and other specialised products of this type. the second case is the maintenance of production in areas with difficult economic conditions, where very specific instruments of support for production must also be maintained, as one of the previous rapporteurs has said. i share the author's view that the common agricultural policy, the policy of the future, should be simple and transparent, but also effective, and that effectiveness does not always go hand in hand with simplification.
member of the commission. − mr president, simplification and better regulation are priorities for the commission. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr ashworth, for an excellent report in this rather complicated and challenging area. the commission fully agrees that simplification and reduction of administrative burden should be of particular benefit for farmers. this will enable the farmers to spend more time on their core agricultural activities. the commission welcomes the report presented; it generally tackles the main areas of concern of european farmers and provides the commission with new ideas and observations with regard to simplifying the common agricultural policy. during the past years, the commission has made substantial progress in simplifying the common agricultural policy. i would like to give just one proof of this: the stoiber group, which advises the commission on the topic of administrative burden, has clearly indicated that the level of red tape for farmers has been reduced considerably as a result of simplification activities carried out by the commission. but simplification is an ongoing process; work will continue in 2010. moreover, there is an overall reflection process on the future of the common agricultural policy. we have already launched a public debate, and that means that we will have to all work together to find efficient ways to reduce the administrative burden while maintaining a high level of protection of the european union’s financial interest and at the same time a very efficient agriculture. in this process i would also warn about one desire, and will just mention one example of it. sometimes simplification should not be made at the expense of the challenge that we could face. take as an example traceability. we have in recent years had a peaceful situation, with no major scandals or outbreaks of epidemics, but at the same time traceability is the key. we should not just abolish it because we have not had any crises. so i believe that in the whole process we should be very careful when we simplify; we should not forget the lessons of the past and the reasons why we introduced particular rules. so the commission will continue to work on this process and we will be very careful not to forget the lessons learned.
in writing. the new system must be based on objective and fair criteria. the equalisation of the subsidies in the various countries is necessary to achieve this objective. prices for transportation of goods, agricultural machinery, fertilisers and labour costs reach similar ceilings in many countries. in order to ensure a level playing field in the single market, the level of basic direct payments must be uniform or comparable throughout the union. it is time that the rules that apply in other sectors of the economy apply to agriculture. it should also be borne in mind that the new member states need significant resources to support agricultural modernisation, restructuring and catch-up with the 'old 15'.
in the light of recent developments and in agreement with the political groups, i would like to propose the following changes to the agenda for wednesday. these are new changes from the ones we passed yesterday at 5:30. these are extra changes. first, we're taking the question period to the council off the agenda. the council has informed me that, due to the transport difficulties this week, mr lópez garrido will have to leave strasbourg on wednesday at 6 p.m., which means we cannot have a question-and-answer session this evening. secondly, the withdrawal from the agenda of the report by silvi ţicău on the energy efficiency of buildings, because it was not adopted in committee on monday. thirdly, the placing of the oral question on the ban on the use of cyanide mining technologies as the third item on the agenda for the afternoon immediately following the debates on swift and pnr (it is a matter of recording passenger name data). that will close the sitting on wednesday at 7 p.m. i repeat, very briefly, that we have withdrawn the items which are not possible to carry out on wednesday, and as a result we will end the sitting on wednesday not at 12 noon but at 7 p.m. i repeat, these matters have been discussed with the chairmen of the political groups.
i'm preparing an email to all the mps that i will personally sign. some of us didn't even make it, and we want information, too. this email will be sent to you at approximately 11:00 a.m. and it will answer as many questions as we can possibly answer. thursday, all committee meetings are allowed, but there will be no voting. the european parliament's services will be present. it's not just the plenary. everything except the plenary session is working normally, groups that come to strasbourg to visit it will be welcomed, groups that we invite will be able to visit parliament and enter the plenary hall, but there will be no debate. the only difference is that there is no plenary session and no vote. the rest of the week is on thursdays. thursday and friday, you can sign the attendance list. the rest of the information will be in an e-mail that will be sent to you before lunch at the latest. yesterday there was a meeting of the conference of presidents and a meeting of the bureau. a lot of things have been worked out. from now on, there is a task force, which includes the parliamentary services, and this task force is in constant contact with me, and i am in contact with the chairmen of the political groups, because we have to keep in touch on all the matters that concern decisions this week and in the weeks to come. please remember that next week the committees of the european parliament are discussing and we cannot block the normal committee discussions, we have to prepare the session in brussels as normal. decisions on this matter have not yet been taken, but will be taken in the coming days. please expect me to brief you on all the arrangements and the anticipated actions for the future.
the next item is the statements by the council and the european commission on the disruption of air traffic in europe. as you know, the executive branch of the european institutions must take the decisions that are to be taken in the next few days. this will of course be the task of the commission and the council of ministers. as we know, both the commission and the council have been working on this since at least sunday, but we as members also have responsibilities. they concern the longer-term response to the crisis that has occurred. we'll want to involve our parliamentary committees. we also need to consider how to respond to the situation at the brussels mini-session. it might be a resolution. i'm talking about different ways of responding. i would ask my colleagues to also draw attention in their speeches to the ways in which parliament can be involved in solving the problems of the present. these are first and foremost the problems of our citizens, the citizens of europe. we have a problem of getting to strasbourg and brussels, but it is our problem and we should not make it public. we should be thinking about how to solve the problems of europeans in a situation where air traffic is paralysed. the key issue is what we - the members - can do in the coming weeks to improve the situation. however, since the executive is the one most responsible in the first hours and days, i would like to thank the representatives of both the council and the commission for being here.
acting president of the council. - mr president, as everyone knows, air transport is absolutely strategic, it affects citizens, their daily lives, their right to free movement - a fundamental right - and it certainly affects economic activity in a decisive way. when there are problems with air transport, when there are distortions affecting more than one country, the strategic nature of air transport becomes even more apparent and the damage is greater. and when, as in this case, it affects most of the countries of the european union, then it becomes a really serious problem, a crisis. crisis, of course, unexpected, crisis that has no precedent and that must be addressed appropriately. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them up in the near future. in this crisis of the air situation in europe, both circumstances have occurred at the same time: there is a maximum level of seriousness - it has been a very serious crisis - but there is also a low level in terms of the legal, legal, immediate capacity of the european union to act in this respect. so we are faced with a situation in which it is not easy to act from the point of view of the european union. but it has acted, it has reacted. the second part of my consideration is how this case has been handled. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on the same day as the agreement with ryanair. this is a scientific assessment and it is considered that airspace should be automatically restricted to flight. that is what was done in the first place, acting with the utmost caution, with the utmost safety, with the minimum risk, on the basis of that first contribution by eurocontrol, which in turn was based on what was pointed out by the volcanic ash advisory centre, based in london and set up years ago. but of course this situation clearly goes beyond the states and that is why the european union and the institutions of the european union have been working from the start and, in particular, in the last few days there have been a series of technical meetings which have resulted in yesterday's decision, of a political nature, by the transport ministers. all this weekend the council, the spanish presidency, the commission - and in particular commissioner kallas, whom i thank for his availability and his efforts during this time - and eurocontrol have been working to prepare a much more precise and appropriate response to what was already becoming a fact, a more lasting crisis, which was beginning to have very serious effects throughout the european union and beyond the european union. the work of these days has resulted in this recommendation by eurocontrol, unanimously adopted at the meeting held yesterday in brussels with eurocontrol, the commission, the council, the airport authorities, air navigation organisations and all the sectors concerned, on the need for eurocontrol to identify three areas affected by the volcano as from today. the first would be the area with the highest ash density, where there would be a restriction, an absolute flight ban; the second would be the opposite, an area where there is no ash at all and therefore free to fly; and an intermediate area where there is a low ash density and therefore safe to fly, which should be examined, if necessary, through the data provided daily, constantly every six hours, by eurocontrol, by the national authorities starting today, in a coordinated way, to decide whether runners should be established in corridors or corridors or in areas where flying is permitted. that recommendation, which is the result of eurocontrol's proposal, a technical recommendation, was unanimously adopted yesterday by the 27 governments of the european union, thus giving it a european approach, a european approach to what is needed at the moment. in other words, the european union takes a decision and therefore proposes to the states that they act in that way. there has been a unanimous commitment by european governments together with the commission, together with the proposal that eurocontrol is making, to act in that way. the priority has thus remained safety. there are no commitments in this respect, as commissioner kallas said - he has been saying this over the weekend - and therefore there is an area in which there is a ban, a commitment to an absolute no-fly zone. the knowledge of the real risk will be much more accurately gained through all this data which will be used by eurocontrol, not only the data coming from london but also the tests being carried out with test aircraft without passengers, the data from the national authorities, the manufacturers of parts for aircraft engines and the european aviation safety agency, based in cologne. all this will have to be taken into account when these zones are established, as agreed yesterday by the transport ministers at the extraordinary council convened by the spanish presidency. it is therefore an evolving model, more dynamic and more precise than the one that has been used up to now: on a scientific basis, firstly; on a technical decision by eurocontrol, secondly; and with a decision by the states, in the last instance, on that intermediate area, in which they must be coordinated. the council of transport ministers yesterday also made a very clear statement to the member states that they must make available to citizens, with the greatest possible effort, as many alternative means of transport as possible to solve the really serious situations affecting the mobility of european and other citizens. they have also addressed the very important economic consequences of this situation, as commissioner kallas will explain, in the context of a task force, a group headed by the vice-president of the commission, commissioner kallas, commissioner almunia, commissioner olli rehn, which is to present a report on this next week, covering all the economic aspects. and ultimately, there will be a new council of transport ministers as soon as possible to deal with all these matters. so, mr president, there is a decision which means giving a european perspective, a coordinated european approach to what is happening, based on safety and the need to give maximum efficiency and precision when making a decision on flights, preserving the rights of citizens. and i am very pleased, mr president, mr buzek, that the european parliament is proposing a thorough debate on this subject. the debate is already a matter of having the reflexes to act immediately, as is the duty of the house representing the peoples of europe, and of considering in the longer term what action is to be taken in the face of this totally unexpected crisis, which is totally new but which has had extraordinary, very serious effects on the lives of the citizens of europe.
i wanted to assure the council of ministers and the spanish presidency that the european parliament is ready to cooperate at any time and that we are open to discussions in committee. we are open to receiving representatives of the european commission and the council and to discussing these problems. we want to be part of it. we are from the different regions of the european union, elected by direct suffrage, responsible to the people of the union, and that is why we need to be included. we are prepared for this, of course we can only do what is the legislative part, we cannot take executive decisions, but we want to help both the european commission and the council. we're open to that. that's what this discussion is for.
mr. chairman, please! i regret that a number of colleagues did not consult with experts, people who have spent thousands of hours at the controls of airplanes, before speaking. i have the impression that this is a highly political discussion, that the council is being accused of not being responsible for volcanoes in person. it is possible to say with a heavy hand that the decision of eurocontrol was too hasty and i say this very firmly, because everything was put in one bag. it didn't take into account the absolutely diverse situation that was taking place. we're advocating a system of constant surveillance, and i think that's the lesson we can take from this. but certainly the decisions that have been made have been made for too long and i think they could have been different.
mr president, today we know better than we did a week ago that jet-free skies cost a lot. the cost to airlines goes beyond their lost revenues. other industries are affected, though there are also industries benefiting from the situation. what matters is also the fact that this new disaster has hit the already very fragile european economy facing the need for fiscal consolidation. i would like to raise two issues. the first is related to state aid. offering airlines state aid in compensation for the losses has a precedent in the bail-out offered to american airlines after 9/11. the european commission also offers fast-track procedures to state aid, which is appreciated. but my question to the commission is whether we know the expected size of this new burden for national budgets suffering from huge deficits and debts and facing the challenge of fiscal consolidation. is state aid through national budgets the best solution? are any other options being considered by the european commission? the second issue is related to the european union’s capacity to manage crises. we hear that during the first few days there was no consultation or coordination amongst relevant national authorities in a situation covering 80% of european air space. i can assure you, commissioner, that you can be totally independent and still coordinate. we might also hear soon that coordination would have allowed us to design and implement a better solution, so in my view this is the time to move forward on eu crisis management. we clearly see that disasters that affect our citizens can also occur outside the eu territory in the european economic area, or even outside the eea. my question to the commission is: how will it use this disaster to enhance the european union crisis management capacity? i can assure you that we in the european parliament will support all your efforts to make us more effective and more efficient in crisis management.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. we are clearly in a crisis situation. in europe, air traffic has been reduced by 70%. 80% of the airports are closed. but i hope we can draw some constructive conclusions. firstly, the commission should do everything possible to ensure that the eruption of the volcano does not lead to the bankruptcy of european carriers, which are already in a disastrous financial situation. i say this in the context of yesterday's debate on funding for aviation safety and the council's resistance to funding more stringent safety measures. secondly, experimentation with new, untested technologies such as body scanners and fluids will certainly not improve safety, but will certainly affect the financial health of european carriers. thirdly, the question of passengers. i think it's a wise decision to suspend flights for their safety. but this concern should not stop there. it should also include helping those who are stranded at airports through no fault of their own. these issues have been discussed by the european parliament, and in particular by the committee on transport, on several occasions in its meetings. but paradoxically, it was only after the icelandic volcano erupted that the aviation industry became a vital part of the european union's economy, especially for the representatives of the eu institutions who were unable to attend the funeral in krakow on sunday.
mr. chairman, please! the present situation makes us aware and confirms our impotence against the forces of nature. however, as a serious organisation, the european union should be better prepared for such cases, and in particular for responding effectively to emergencies. it is difficult to prepare for something that may or may not happen once every 150 years, but we are seeing at the moment that the pan-european rail infrastructure and network is totally inadequate. and the question we should be asking ourselves here is how to make it better. the other issues that we should discuss are, first, what public aid for companies in difficulty will look like. we know that it's going to be a huge amount of money that has to be spent to fix the financial situation of these companies. the remaining question is how to develop a strategy that will prepare us in the long term to respond and improve... (the president declared the common position approved)
mr. chairman, please! i hope that the difficult situation in european transport will not last too long and develop into a real transport crisis. the experience we gain is too costly, but it's very enlightening. the right conclusions must be drawn, and here are some of the ones that are coming up. firstly, transport safety, both in terms of quality and the mobility of citizens, is our common priority. secondly, the need for sustainable development of all transport modes, especially rail transport, cannot be neglected. third, efficient transport is the lifeblood of the economy. transport of goods, labour mobility are the determinants of development, and we should bear this in mind especially in the economic crisis. finally, we need appropriate procedures, coordination, individual airline support, mutual assistance and european solidarity for the benefit of our citizens.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the disaster showed that we lack procedures in the european union for the kind of disasters that occurred as a result of the volcanic eruption. firstly, the european union should coordinate the safety and decide on the take-off of aircraft. this cannot be the sole responsibility of the member states. secondly, we must consider the question of economic responsibility. it seems that a european, perhaps national, insurance system should be the solution to these types of cases. thirdly, as regards the logistics between passengers who were stuck in transfers between countries, there was no real mobility of the transport network, the tnt network and the high-speed trains. finally, it seems that for passengers who are stranded outside the european union, the european external action service should have specific procedures to help them. i'm counting on these fast-track procedures to be put in place.
acting president of the council. - mr president, i think there was clearly agreement that we must give priority to nature first - mr cramer said that very clearly and i agree, i think this is an important message for all of us - and also, without a doubt, to the european union, to european action, in the face of a crisis of european relevance which has seriously affected millions of european citizens and other countries outside the european union and also seriously affected the economy of important european sectors. it was immediately clear that the action of the states, which had the power to decide on the opening of airports, was clearly overwhelmed by the facts and that is why the european union immediately intervened, immediately, mr speroni, mrs ferreira, immediately. on friday it was seen that there was a serious situation that was consolidating. as soon as this prospect was seen, the european commission, the spanish presidency of the council and eurocontrol immediately set to work and on sunday itself - as mr kallas said earlier - there was a public appearance by the commission and the presidency - mr kallas and myself - explaining the situation and setting out what was to be done: yesterday's eurocontrol meeting and the decision in the extraordinary council, convened by the spanish government and chaired by the spanish minister for development, the extraordinary meeting that took place yesterday. so, he acted. we have taken steps to ensure that this leads to a decision, to action, to a guideline, to a european approach. and today, precisely, the decision of yesterday's extraordinary council of ministers is being put into practice, is being implemented. this morning, at 8 a.m., eurocontrol defined four zones with an extended safety perimeter where no flights can be made and other zones where coordination can be established, provided that there are agreements between the states. there is therefore a gradual opening up, which will naturally depend on the conditions and the nature. of course it depends on that, but yesterday's decision is already in force today and will of course always be made on the basis of the precautionary principle and ensuring safety. i think what has been immediately apparent is that the european approach in this case has made it possible to take a much more balanced decision. the european approach has allowed us to take account of a number of factors which must be taken into account whenever something as extraordinary as what we are experiencing these days happens. it allows, first, the risk assessment model to be much more precise, much more accurate. mr sterckx, when i was talking about this, i wanted to tell you that eurocontrol takes account of the decisions of the volcanic ash advisory centre in london, but it will take account of the test flights, it will take account of the information coming from the national authorities, it will take account of the information coming from the aircraft manufacturers, it will take account of the information coming from the european aviation safety agency, based in cologne, which, i agree, must be strengthened. all this will be taken into account in order to make a more precise map, as is already being done today, at this moment, through the technical proposal, based on scientific data, that eurocontrol is making. the european approach allows us to take account of safety, which is an essential, fundamental principle, above all others, and i therefore agree with the interventions that have been made in this regard. it allows economic consequences to be taken into account, and the commission has set up - and this has been very well received by the honourable members - a working party to present a report next week on the economic aspects. and it also allows for the rights of citizens, the mobility of citizens. i therefore appeal to all the governments of the european union to facilitate the repatriation of citizens, to make every possible communication tool available, to make an extraordinary special effort to do so, because that is the main right of citizens: to return home, to go to the destination they want. therefore, respect their right to free movement. i think that this situation opens up the prospect of a very thorough debate in the future, and the european parliament is the right place for that. a very thorough debate on the problem of passenger rights in these exceptional circumstances, the need for an emergency plan, which in turn requires transparency - as mrs bilbao said - in the european union's action, so that there are structural reforms, which means strengthening the transeuropean networks and the railways in europe. this is a strategic objective, which is ultimately nothing but the backbone of europe, because in history the backbone of the modern state was built on the basis of the development of communications, roads, railways and maritime communications. in the future, the spine of europe, the europe of the 21st century, will not be completed without a spine through the infrastructures of communication, in this case essentially through the railway. the development of these transport infrastructures, which is a central objective of the europe of the 21st century, is closely linked to this and is a matter of strong political, symbolic and effective importance. and in this sense i think that the reference to these reforms by mr svoboda, by mr schulz, by mrs alvarez, by other speakers, is absolutely in the right place, said in the right place and at the right time, because that is certainly the element of the future towards which we must move in the european union.
it's been touched a few times today. all your predecessors in the european parliament have raised these issues.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i wish to thank the honourable members for all their remarks. i have four additional ones to make. first of all, these events have given us much food for thought as regards our strategic plans. one of the most interesting and crucial issues is intermodality and flexibility between modes of transport, and the ability of railways to act as some kind of alternative. we will address this issue soon, with the discussions on the recasting of the first railway package and the white paper on the future of transport. this is a very serious issue. yesterday we discussed it with the council of ministers as well. i can promise you that we are taking this issue very seriously – including teleworking and other factors aimed at limiting unnecessary transport and travel. concerning the economic impact, we will take all aspects into account and will make proposals. however, we should be careful. money does not come from nowhere, and things must be fair for all the other actors in the economy. we must be very balanced in our approach. there can be no miracle. as regards passengers’ rights, the rules are very clear. some members asked about the rules and whether we should revisit them. i do not think we should revisit the rules adopted by european decision-makers, including the european parliament. they are good. the question is a very different one. it is that of implementation and enforcement, which is in the hands of member states. we have a clear plan on how to proceed with the enforcement of these rules and on how to influence the member states. it is clear what must be done concerning passengers’ rights today. one other matter, which is not such a big issue: many colleagues and the press have said we were too late and were not prepared. well, i was active all the time. i was at eurocontrol. i was in contact with ministers. in this chamber today you have the same dilemma as faced by all those experts and decision-makers, but this is a matter which is in the hands of experts and the safety authorities, not in the hands of politicians. it is the same dilemma: safety versus flexibility. we were prepared for a volcanic eruption but we had different types of evidence regarding the eruption. this was mentioned here as well. one british airways flight and one klm flight were affected by the volcanic eruption so rules were established on the basis of there being a serious risk. the authorities acted in accordance with the assumption that there was a serious risk and that flights should be cancelled. now we have a more differentiated approach. on sunday the majority of the test flights were made and information came through to eurocontrol, where we discussed these issues – the test flights and the definitive results for those flights. now we have flexibility and the matter is still in the hands of the member states. we are going ahead with the single sky, which is a very promising european project, and there is a common understanding among ministers that this is the way forward, with better coordination at europe level. this is a big opportunity. those are the comments i wanted to make. i wanted to say that, as regards information, the commission issued press releases on thursday and friday concerning passengers’ rights. we said that passengers’ rights should be taken very seriously. the information about passengers’ rights came from the commission immediately, and as from sunday larger coverage began of all the issues, which by yesterday were very well covered. that is the picture. the case is not closed. we have three or four days at least before the majority of flights resume. the solution for the economy and for passengers is a resumption of flights, with airlines bringing passengers home or taking them to their final destination. it is still a difficult situation and we must deal with the consequences. thank you for your remarks. we will have several opportunities to discuss this matter further.
the debate we are about to conclude was certainly the most important point of our proceedings. it is for this debate that we should meet here in strasbourg. this discussion is something that our citizens expect us to address and that's what we've been talking about this morning. it's the most important subject. i also wanted to thank you for the fact that 14 commissioners from the european commission took part in our final debate. it is very important that they hear your comments. i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. our debate on the state of european aviation cannot be reduced to a trivial question of how to get to the european parliament in strasbourg. over-emphasis on this aspect will give the impression of unwarranted self-centredness on the part of members of the european parliament. we should use our imagination! the social, economic and even political implications of a prolonged closure of european airspace could be a huge challenge for europe as a whole. in poland, for example, some politicians and journalists ask why some could not reach krakow on sunday, while others did. they also ask why you can't go to krakow on sunday, but you can go to strasbourg on monday. the events that follow the eruption of the icelandic volcano will also have a very strong global dimension. we don't usually think about the importance of air travel. ethiopia alone loses €3 million a day because it cannot export flowers to europe. we need to do a very serious analysis of how the shutdown of the skies will affect the job market, our competitiveness and the economy as a whole, how it will affect the lives of ordinary people. who knows, maybe the future of the european union depends on this unseen event in iceland. thank you very much. thank you.
in writing. a volcanic cloud caused by the eruption of iceland's eyjafjoell volcano has effectively disrupted air traffic over europe in recent days. tens of thousands of flights have been cancelled, preventing passengers from communicating. for the whole of europe, national and eu authorities, this is a lesson we must learn for the future. it is also to ensure that a similar event does not paralyse the work of the eu council or our assembly in the future. among those affected were also members of the european parliament who, like me, were unable to attend the strasbourg session this week. there was a lot of controversy about our meeting in strasbourg this week because some members simply could not come from their constituencies. we didn't know if the session would go on until the last minute. it would be good if we all had prepared procedures for dealing with similar emergencies in the future.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, in recent days we have all witnessed the blockade of airports on almost the entire european continent. this situation is so unusual that it is not the result of strikes but of a natural disaster caused by the eruption of a volcano in iceland. this paralysis, in which we are all participating in some way, has a number of consequences, such as the financial problems of airlines and the increasing importance of land and sea transport. and that's what i'd like to draw your attention to. in recent years, we have seen the primacy of air transport over other modes of transport. it was faster, safer and more convenient for passengers, but in the present situation it is necessary to introduce such measures so that land and sea transport can best compensate us for the inconvenience caused by the paralysis of air transport.
the next item on the agenda is a statement by mr barroso, president of the european commission, on the commission's legislative and work programme for 2010. i would like to point out that there are also a dozen commissioners in the room. the european commission as a whole is very well represented, because the subject is also extremely important for all of us. we had to cut this short because of the change in agenda and after hearing the communication from president barroso, there will be speeches by the political group leaders to give a political opinion on what the commission is proposing for 2010. we will then ask president barroso to speak again and to respond to the comments of the political group chairmen.
barroso, thank you for coming. it has not been easy for any of us to get to strasbourg. many members have not arrived at the european parliament, so the attendance is not very high. we decided not to vote during this part-session because everybody must have the opportunity to vote, and some members could not come to strasbourg at all. so there are some quite new rules for this part-session.
president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i have the honour and pleasure to present to you today the first work programme of this commission, which is also the first work programme since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. i have the honour and pleasure of doing so with virtually my entire team, the european commission, as a sign of respect for your parliament. this programme is being presented at a crucial moment for europe, because now is the time to act. this programme is a direct result of our political dialogue. after intensive consultations based on the political guidelines i have put forward for the next five years, this parliament gave me responsibility for a second term in september. after extensive hearings, which helped to forge a common vision of the actions to be taken, the college as a whole was entrusted to you in february. in other words, this work programme shows a strong convergence with the political priorities expressed by your institution. as such, it provides a solid platform for achieving ambitious results. our first priority must be to get out of the crisis and to lay the foundations for sustainable growth and job creation. first, the urgent questions: we have recently discussed the outcome of the european council. in the meantime, the announced financial support mechanism for greece was finally put into place on 11 april. the commission will play an important role in the implementation of this mechanism when greece requests its activation. this is the logical consequence of the fact that the commission has been heavily involved, from the outset, in finding a solution to the financial problems facing greece and in maintaining stability within the euro area. we have always done so in accordance with the principles of solidarity but also responsibility. but we need to do more than ask why these problems arose and how to prevent them from happening again. that is why we will review the stability and growth pact to deepen economic surveillance and extend it beyond the deficit issue alone. we need a permanent mechanism for resolving crises. in short, we must show that the european union - and the euro area in particular - is up to the challenges of the moment and we must exploit all the opportunities offered by the lisbon treaty. that is why one of the first major initiatives of the commission next month will be to present a communication on the enhanced coordination of economic policies. we all know that the collective interest of europe is at stake here. the union must strengthen the system and take account of the full range of economic risks and imbalances. we need to improve the internal mechanisms. by having stronger structures and a better coordinated approach, europe can facilitate the return of public finances to a sustainable trajectory and create a framework for a broader and more sustainable recovery. ladies and gentlemen, over the last eighteen months we have made enormous progress towards a more ethical, sound and responsible financial system. we must persevere on this path, filling the remaining regulatory gaps and ensuring that our supervisory structures keep pace with a constantly changing industry. i am convinced that our proposal on alternative and private equity funds will soon reach a decisive stage. the commission believes that the legislator will support our common objective of ensuring that the new european architecture for financial sector supervision is fully operational by the beginning of next year. in 2010, the commission intends to present several proposals in key areas such as derivatives markets, deposit guarantee schemes and market abuse. the protection of ordinary consumers of financial services will receive particular attention. we will also work on other major aspects of cds and short selling and will soon propose guidelines on the establishment of bank insolvency resolution funds. mr president, distinguished members of parliament, this commission hit the ground running. by presenting the europe 2020 strategy right after taking office, we have set the scene to help bring europe back on track on track for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. we now need to work together european parliament, member states, commission to build and sustain the momentum. achieving the vision of a sustainable social market economy by 2020 will require a strong effort from all levels of decision-making and all levels of society. at european level, our action must have genuine european added-value. this is the goal of the europe 2020 flagship initiatives the digital agenda for europe, a full-fledged industrial policy, a european plan for research and innovation, a resource-efficient europe, new skills for new jobs, youth on the move, fighting social exclusion. this is where europe can make the difference. thus we will help drive the transition to a resource efficient and climate-change resilient economy. fighting climate change will remain a top priority on our agenda, both internally and globally. the energy and transport sectors will get particular attention this year both critical to turn the challenge of a sustainable europe into our competitive advantage. the single market, as a home market of 500 million consumers underpinning jobs, competitiveness, affordable prices and consumer choice, will continue to be the backbone of the european economy. tapping its full potential is particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the most important driver for job creation in the european union. bringing the single market into the 21st century is a priority for the commission, which will make new proposals by 2012. this is also the subject of a report which i have asked mario monti to prepare and which we will be presenting very soon. i want to underline the importance of social inclusion in our vision for europe 2020. the real strength of a society rests on the opportunities it creates for its weakest citizens. we must seize every opportunity to encourage employment and social cohesion. that means being ready to exploit the emerging sectors which will generate new jobs. it means providing people with the right skills to create and sustain high employment levels and facilitate economic transition. it means working to overcome the impact of the crisis on young people by easing transitions from education and training to work. to this end, a broad-ranging european platform against poverty will be built on the current european year for combating poverty and social exclusion. this agenda is of course a contribution to the fulfilment of our principles of economic, social and territorial cohesion. the concerns and well-being of european citizens will remain at the heart of commission action. the implementation of a comprehensive action plan of the stockholm programme that the commission will be adopting later today is focused precisely on ensuring that the benefits of european integration in the area of freedom, security and justice become more tangible to the citizens. this action plan represents on its own a comprehensive work programme for the commission in the area of freedom, security and justice. it puts citizens at the core of our policies by facilitating the exercise of their specific rights. it will also aim at developing an open and secure europe with a particular focus on tackling cross-border crime and on a common immigration and asylum policy. in the field of freedom, security and justice, the european union has in the last 10 years gone from the application of the free movement of persons to a common policy. the achievements so far have been impressive but we need, more than ever in this period of exit from the crisis, to promote and defend european values and indeed, above all, to tap all the potential that is now created by the lisbon treaty. the action plan contains a comprehensive list of measures to implement our already defined priorities in this field, both at european and global level. the entry into force of the lisbon treaty also gives us the tools to demonstrate greater ambition. the increased role of this parliament, more efficient decision-making in the council, the prospect of more coherence and consistency of member states in european council decisions, and judicial review by the court of justice will strengthen the european union's determination to respond to the expectations and concerns of our citizens. when we look to 2020, we must also address a number of long-term trends with a direct impact on the daily lives of citizens. action now will pay dividends in the future. for example, the commission will launch a public debate on the future of pensions and analyse options for ensuring the sustainability and adequacy of pension systems. of course, in any area like this many of the levers are national but that must not hold us back from ensuring that the european union makes a maximum contribution. in the external field, the new role of the high representative/vice-president and the start of the european external action service will offer us the tools to build a stronger and more coherent eu external policy. we will set out strategic trade policy priorities, take forward trade negotiations and work with partners on issues ranging from market access to regulatory framework and global imbalances. we will project our europe 2020 objectives on the global market place, for example through the g20. the commission will also be tackling the challenges of energy geopolitics, in order to ensure safe, secure, sustainable and affordable energy. another key priority for the commission is to pursue the international development agenda and propose an eu action plan in the run-up to the 2015 millennium development goals summit. this initiative will form the basis for the june european council to prepare a common eu position in view of the high level united nations review meeting in september on the millennium development goals (mdgs), which aims at the adoption of a global action plan for reaching the mdgs by 2015. we want a europe that is open and shows in concrete actions its solidarity with the most vulnerable in the world. finally, as agreed with this parliament, we will publish the budget review during the third semester of this year. in this we will set out what we see as the key principles and parameters for using the european union's financial resources to best effect, taking full account of the europe 2020 strategy. in parallel, we will be making more detailed assessments of key areas, including agriculture and cohesion. i can assure you that parliament will be fully associated at all stages of the budget review. before finishing, i would like to briefly explain a number of innovations in the work programme. this programme, and future programmes, need to offer the right framework for the institutions to build a solid consensus on where europe should focus its attention. we therefore need to be more political, and we also need to reflect the multiannual challenge of initiatives of the scale we intend. i think the way we prepare the work programmes in the future should be a concrete demonstration of the special partnership which i and the commission want to establish with the european parliament in this mandate. this programme identifies 34 strategic initiatives that we are committed to putting on the table before the end of december. i'm sure you agree that this is an ambitious agenda for the next eight months. at the same time, the programme includes many other initiatives for 2010 and beyond. this indicative list includes initiatives on which the commission intends to work over the coming years. not all of these initiatives will necessarily lead to the submission of concrete proposals. in line with the principles of smart regulation, we need to assess thoroughly which items should go forward, and in which form. the work programme will be reviewed every year to identify new strategic initiatives and adapt the multi-annual strand as required. this 'rolling' approach will enhance transparency and predictability for all stakeholders, while preserving the necessary flexibility to react to unforeseen developments. one thing we've learned in recent years is that we should always predict the unpredictable. recent years have shown that strategic blueprints cannot be cast in stone they have to adapt to reality on the ground. honourable members, the commission work programme for 2010 that we are proud to present today is an ambitious, but also necessary and realistic, framework for european policy-making in the coming year. it is realistic if all institutions are ready to join forces and cooperate with a view to delivering timely results to europe's citizens; it is necessary because business as usual is not an option if we want 2010 to mark a turning point; and it is ambitious because, more than ever, a strong europe is required to deliver to citizens the solutions they are looking for. they expect it from us, and we have a duty to work for their prosperity and well-being.
thank you, mr president, for giving us a broad overview of the european commission's key initiatives for the next eight months. i just wanted to emphasize that the strategic partnership that you, the president, talked about is very important to us. we distinguish between the executive and the legislative branches, but our cooperation is of crucial importance to our citizens, and we therefore welcome the words of the president on the need for as close as possible contacts between the european commission and the european parliament. the presence of the president and the commissioners here today is the best proof that the commission's intentions are in line with the facts. thank you very much for that!
president of the commission. - mr president, in general - we are not talking about those who have clearly and honestly said that they are against the union and against membership of the european union - i think i can say that there is still a broad convergence in this house around the programme we have just presented. if there is one common element that i have detected in the interventions of the most representative political forces, it is the idea of ambition. we need more ambition in europe. i would like to take up a few points that have been made and with which i particularly agree. our friend mr szájer has spoken of the need to avoid the model of the five-year plan of the communist regimes. and that's precisely why we want to keep this flexibility, which is important to adapt to a changing environment. at the same time, i would like to confirm once again, in reply to mr szájer, but also to mr swoboda, that they are right in calling for more action in economic and financial terms by the union, and in pointing out the resistance that the member states have shown, for example, to an increased role for the commission in the supervision of national public accounts. the first commission i had the honour of chairing had put forward a specific regulation to give more audit power to eurostat, and this was rejected by some member states, who did not want the commission to be able to fulfil this role. so i hope that the lesson to be learned from this crisis is that we are increasingly interdependent, that economic policy in europe is not just a national affair. it is a national question, of course, but it is also a question of common european interests, because more coordination is needed. i think that mr szájer, mr swoboda, mrs de sarnez and all the others agree that this increasingly coordinated economic policy is necessary. we are moving in this direction, and i would like to emphasize in particular the ambition expressed by mr swoboda, and i thank him for it, for a strengthened partnership between the commission and the european parliament when we talk about the financial perspective, the need to resist certain readings rather in the intergovernmental sense that we are hearing now, which is surprising, because in fact the lisbon treaty goes exactly in the opposite direction, that of further strengthening the european dimension. i hope that we can learn from this crisis by moving towards more europe, not less europe. one example - mrs de sarnez referred to this - is the question of financial regulation. it is still curious, if not ironic, that after so many requests from certain member states for action on financial regulation, the member states unanimously agreed to reduce the ambition of the proposals which the commission put forward after the larozière report. this shows that there is sometimes a gap between statements and decisions. i hope that together, the european parliament and the commission, we can bridge this gap and try to achieve a little more coherence at european level, because we really need this ambition. the important thing now, i would like to stress, is to understand the principle of subsidiarity. i am in favour of subsidiarity. i would also like to show my agreement, mr kirkhope, with this idea of subsidiarity, but we must understand what it means. subsidiarity is about deciding which is the best level to decide. with this air traffic crisis, it's still a curious thing that's going on. i have seen in the press today, not just in the eurosceptic or europhobic press, not just in the tabloids, but in the serious press, that the european union now admits that it made mistakes in deciding to suspend flights. this is amazing! if there is one area of national competence, it is european traffic control. the decision was taken by each european national regulator. but those who were against competence at european level are now protesting against europe. it will soon be said that it was the european commission and brussels that created the volcano in iceland. it's all very wonderful! (applause) i would like to thank let's get this straight. there are different levels of responsibility: national and european levels. for each case, it is necessary to determine the most appropriate level. the commission is ready, i can tell you, to assume its responsibilities, but i believe that we must build an alliance with the european parliament to say clearly what is our responsibility and what is not our responsibility. otherwise we will always have this reflex - and in times of crisis, we know that it is easier to resort to nationalist, populist rhetoric - to put the responsibility on brussels, as is sometimes said, or perhaps on strasbourg too, which, frankly, is a matter of national responsibility. let's use common sense! let us concentrate on what we can do at european level, where we can add value to our action, while respecting, of course, our member states, which are democratic member states. i believe that agenda 2020 focuses europe on the essentials. what we need now is growth, but not just any kind of growth, more equitable growth, more open, more sustainable, more intelligent, future-oriented growth. we must create new sources of growth if we are to deal effectively with our greatest problem, which we shall be discussing this afternoon, the problem of unemployment, particularly youth unemployment. that is where we really need to make this alliance between the community institutions, also working honestly and loyally with our member states to deliver concrete results to our citizens. i think that we have a good basis for our work in the years ahead and i feel encouraged after this debate - and i think my colleagues feel encouraged too - by your words of support and, in some cases, your words of demand. we will try to live up to the task you entrust us with. (applause) i would like to thank
thank you very much, mr. president, for that statement. i would like to say that the european commission has a great ally in the european parliament in its efforts to promote our european community. most meps support these actions and the view of the european commission to take more responsibility, especially in the crisis situation we talked about earlier - then we understand how much we need the european union and action from the european commission. the european parliament's responsibilities have also increased considerably since the lisbon treaty, and we welcome this. we believe that this is in the interest of the european people, in the interest of our citizens. we must now take more responsibility and use the treaty's opportunities. i wanted to reassure you that the president and the commission have allies in the majority of the european parliament.
acting president of the council. - mr president, i simply wanted to congratulate the commission and its president, mr josé manuel durão barroso, on the ambitious, very europeanist programme which he has presented here and which is clearly in line with the objectives of the spanish presidency of the european union and the programme of the trio of presidencies, consisting of spain, belgium and hungary. i can say that the council is working with the commission and also with the european parliament, which i also congratulate on the constructive interventions in support of this legislative programme of the european commission. the commission has made a very important effort. everyone knows that the new commission - the so-called barroso ii commission - should have been in office since 1 november, but for various reasons it has arrived a few months later and is working, making up for lost time in a hard, constructive and positive way, which the spanish presidency is grateful for. and mr barroso and all the members of the commission - vice-presidents, commissioners - know very well that we are working, i think very positively, with the commission, which is making an effort which we acknowledge. and so does the european parliament. the european parliament has always taken a very constructive attitude whenever there has been a debate on these issues here. i take this opportunity to ask the european parliament once again to allow us to adopt these legislative initiatives - we are talking about legislative initiatives today, above all - and to allow them to be adopted as soon as possible in order to make up for the lost time to which i referred. i am sure that we will also have the cooperation of the european parliament.
i thank you for your statement on behalf of the council and for your support for the european commission's programme. i would like to thank president barroso, all the commission vice-presidents and commissioners for being here. this shows that the commission attaches great importance to cooperation with the european parliament, and this was also our expectation. i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. i congratulate president barroso on the commission's ambitious work programme for 2010. unfortunately, the time is running out. it's only eight months. i hope that the priorities will not remain dead promises. the strength of the programme is its action to combat the crisis. unfortunately, it's mostly economic. the 'close to the people' part lacks anti-discrimination initiatives, including: - the fight against violence against women, - greater determination and commitment to social objectives, - a long-term strategy to improve communication with the citizens of the union. we've been dealing with violence against women for years. it is high time for effective european legislation in this area. i would like to see a draft directive on combating violence against women on the commission's agenda. the european platform against poverty is an important initiative in terms of social objectives, to be launched later this year. unfortunately, there is no specific information on this. they must be given at the june council summit. in the field of modernising the union and its instruments, i would like to focus on communication with citizens. this has to be a trial, not a ballot. the communication gap between the eu and its citizens exists and we must ensure that it is reduced and, in the future, eliminated. we need to give eu citizens a genuine sense of being at the heart of what the union is doing. only then will the results of the referendums not be a surprise.
mr. chairman, please! i speak on behalf of my political group, and also on behalf of our group coordinator, mr deva. i wanted to emphasize that the incredibly important thing is that the international aid to haiti is in practice at this moment almost three times what the haitian government and the united nations expected. this aid is set to amount to eur 11.5 billion, with the government of haiti expecting just under eur 4 billion over the next two years. the most fundamental issue is to focus on building infrastructure, as my colleague mr deva emphasised in the previous debate. i would also like to stress the important thing - the control of this aid. the government in haiti is very weak, the aid department is very much run by very different, very strange elites, and it's very important that international organizations and the european union know who this money is really going to.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to thank mrs striffler for bringing this up in today's session and the commissioner and the commissioner for their statements. i believe that many of the actions proposed in our february resolution on haiti are moving in the right direction and can be the basis for the reconstruction of this disaster-stricken country. these actions have basically two phases, and we're talking about those two phases today. the first phase is about short-term and medium-term crisis aid, to help people in these most urgent needs, commissioner georgieva said. the second phase is about sustainable reconstruction, which needs to be coordinated and needs to be assessed for that reconstruction, while always remembering that the people and the government of haiti must own the process. thank you very much, commissioner, for seeing that the haitian people must also be held accountable. and the third stage is all about us, which is what lessons can be drawn to make our aid better coordinated, and i am glad that the european commission is working on this.
member of the commission. − mr president, with your permission, i shall leave a bit of time for mr piebalgs to take on some of the long-term reconstruction questions. this has been very useful and very encouraging for us. before i turn to the questions, let me join mr guerrero salom in expressing sympathy to the families of the four spanish soldiers who died, and also all those who lost their lives during the disaster and now in the recovery efforts in haiti. i would like to start with the bigger policy issue, on the eu improving its response capabilities. i was very pleased to see my colleague commissioner barnier in the room because of the effort he has put into this topic. on 26 april, we will have a chance in the development committee to discuss in more detail the work programme, which includes, for 2010, strengthening the response capacity and a communication on this topic. i can assure you that this is a very high priority for our team. we will work very closely with member states and with parliament to come up with a solution that improves our capacity to respond to disasters, and there is a very simple logic behind it. at a time when the intensity and frequency of disasters are increasing and the budgets of our countries are going to be tight for years to come, there is no other way but to strengthen european coordination and to build an asset base that can be deployed effectively in terms of impact, cost and results. i can tell you that tomorrow we are going to our first country visit on this topic. this is going to be a very high priority for our team in the coming months. let me turn to four questions that have been posed. the first is on the question of combining a response to immediate priorities with long-term reconstruction and our staying power. this is really important because if we move too quickly to reconstruction, away from support for people in need, we risk a very serious tragedy. we had to deal with this in the issue of food delivery where the government of haiti suggested that we shift away from food provision to only cash-for-work and food-for-work, which is highly desirable but cannot be done everywhere at the same time. this is something we are watching very closely. broadly, on the issue of food security, our new policy in the european union is very progressive because it emphasises all other things equally, encouraging local purchase of food for humanitarian aid whenever it is possible to get it locally. we have made this topic subject to a discussion in a morning session in new york where we invited ngos, haitian as well as international ngos, and i was very proud that it was the european ngos that put these issues of agricultural security for haiti and high agricultural return in productivity for the discussion in haiti. i want to address the issue of shelter. it is not at all a trivial issue because people actually do not want to move from where they are now. they do not want to move for a variety of reasons. one, even if their houses are safe they are afraid to go back because of the trauma they experienced. two, because they moved as whole neighbourhoods and they are scared of losing the social fabric that keeps them together, so it is not just bad policy or lack of desire, it is also the social phenomenon that follows a disaster of this nature that makes it not so easy to get people to move from flood-prone areas to safer ground. but we are addressing this as a priority. let me finish with the question of long-term sustainability. it is governance sustainability, it is also ecological sustainability. i had the dubious privilege to fly over haiti and chile, within a couple of weeks of each other. in haiti, an ecologically destroyed island, of course it had implications for the scale of this destruction. in chile, the government has implemented for decades a reafforestation programme stabilising the soil and, as a result, creating a better environment, which is obviously very helpful for people. we are thinking in the long term when we think of chile. this is not in my area but i have to pick it up as a former world bank employee. i certainly agree with you that what the world bank is proposing about this coordination in the multi-donor trust fund but also as an institutional project management approach is something that we need to take to heart and follow.
member of the commission. − mr president, as usual, if i had just one wish in my political life, it would be to have more time in parliament to answer the questions i am asked. i will not be able to answer all the questions put today, but i will go through some of them. the support of parliament is very important for the commission, because haiti is not a case to which only the commission is devoting attention. it felt that the whole of european society wished that the european community make reconstruction a major effort. it is like a textbook: an assessment was made at international level, the governments made plans, these were discussed with ngos, there were various endorsements and there is an interim commission coordinating the whole process. we are definitely not creating anything parallel. we are working on the same bases and on well-prepared ground. regarding the commitment on the eu side, we have made a political commitment and we will deliver. i believe that the same is also very true for other participants. we are working on property rights. that is one of the risk elements. we have a land cadastre and we will work on it, but there could be risks. the risks could definitely come from ownership of the political process. the reconstruction effort can be sustained if there is a political process supporting the long-term development of haiti and if people believe in it. this is where the big challenge comes, and all we can do is to support the haitian people and haiti’s political society in this. i believe that this can be put in place and could be successful. regarding the transparency of the process, the whole international donor structure has been established in a very clear and streamlined way with a lot of transparency. all the eu processes are definitely transparent and will give a full assurance that money will be spent not only for the purpose, but also well and efficiently. lastly, i believe that we should not underestimate the people working on the ground – from the member states, the community, and also the broader international community. i would also like to express my condolences to the families of those people who have died helping haiti reconstruct. there are many more people still working and trying to do their best. they are the guarantee that, if the process is well organised, it will be successful.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, we are gathered here today to discuss european coordination of aid to haiti, while international commentators are criticizing our uncoordinated actions. it's been three months since the tragic earthquake and it still seems we can't work out a common position on support for haiti. in january we heard a lot of speeches about the union's role on the international stage, but it is a shame to see how weak and indecisive the union has been so far. the european union's allocation of eur 1.2 billion in aid to haiti is commendable. global donors have pledged $5.3 billion over two years to help haiti rebuild. in the longer term, the aid is expected to increase to usd 9.9 billion. that's a very optimistic figure! but the haitian cataclysm made me reflect and think about this long-dead nation. the earthquake was a natural disaster, but the current level of poverty is the result of economic, political and social collapse. the decline and violence in haiti in recent years is the result of centuries of brutal relations with the outside world: some states and international corporations. haiti has failed the international community, let's do more to rehabilitate now.
the next item on the agenda is a question-and-answer session with the president of the european commission. any subject matter on behalf of political groups. then the second part of the debate, questions on the employment situation in the european union
president of the commission. − you are basically right in your analysis regarding the situation in the labour market. in fact, the situation is continuing to deteriorate, even if it is at a more moderate pace than in the past. we are also starting to see more consistent signs of stabilisation in some member states. but it has been nine months since the economy started to recover from deep recession and it may take some time this year before the fragile pick-up in economic activity has an impact on reversing the trend in the labour market. that is why our priority is now employment. for young people, unemployment is particularly worrying, as you said. we have more than 20% of young people unemployed in europe. that is why we have launched three initiatives for this year. two of them i have already mentioned. there is also the youth employment initiative. among the specific initiatives that we are going to develop is precisely the step-up of vocational training through more apprenticeship schemes, financed by the european social fund and also fostering high-quality learning experience in the workplace after graduation, the so-called traineeships, including the possibility of traineeships in other member states.
president of the commission. − i am aware of that report of the european climate foundation and, indeed, under the 2020 strategy we have proposed a resource-efficient europe flagship initiative whose aim is precisely to decouple growth from resources, giving europe a competitive advantage compared to other international partners. this objective was also fully translated in the commission’s working programme for 2010 and beyond. it is the commission’s intention to develop a path for europe’s transition to a low-carbon, resource-efficient and climate-change resilient economy by 2050, particularly through the decarbonisation of the energy and transport sectors, thus providing a long-term framework for policy and investment. i underline the word investment. we believe that the climate agenda can also be, as the renewable energy sector is showing, a way of creating more jobs in europe, what we usually call ‘green jobs’.
president of the commission. − the european digital library, addressing the challenge of putting online the collections of our national libraries, museums and their archives, this is a major task of our times digitising, making available, preserving the wealth of our culture. yet we have to do it without jeopardising the rights of authors and publishers, including out-of-print works and for so-called ‘orphan’ works. we also have to assess whether our financial efforts and the public-private partnerships that are being experienced here and there are up to this very important societal challenge. in this perspective, i have asked vice-president kroes and commissioner vassiliou to set up a comité des sages. i am happy to announce today to you that mr maurice lavie, mrs elizabeth nigerman and mr jacques decare will be entrusted with this task. as a comité des sages, they will promote this idea of keeping our very important heritage through digitisation, in full respect of course of the property rights. i look forward to receiving their recommendations on these important issues by the end of this year.
mr. chairman of the commission! i'd like to know how you feel the recent downturn in the airline industry will affect your employment. today, the front page of the highly influential financial times reports that this outage, which has grounded nearly 7 million passengers and caused the cancellation of 80,000 flights, is costing the airline industry $200 million a day. how do you think that translates into employment in this sector, because i understand that was the main reason for your absence and mr. van rompuy's absence from the funeral of the polish president in krakow.
president of the commission. − we are not forcing anyone to take any measures. regarding greece, decisions were taken by the greek authorities, but you will certainly understand that this situation of macroeconomic imbalances in the greek economy is very negative for growth and also for employment. it is clear that without a restoration of confidence in greece’s public finances, there will be no investment or growth in greece. without growth we cannot generate employment. that is why we should not set macroeconomic stability and rigour in contradiction or opposition to growth. the problem is to see how we can manage a transition, how we can keep stimulus in the economies that have the margin to do it, and at the same time respect the necessary balances of macroeconomic stability. that is why it is in the interests of the greek economy and of greek workers for greece’s public finances to have credibility as soon as possible.
president of the commission. − this volcano problem is certainly beyond the control of the european institutions or the national governments. it happened and now we have to react to its consequences. regarding the aviation industry, we have already said that we are looking at what we can do, also based on the precedent that was already there after 11 september. regarding the economic situation, i think it is too soon to make an overall assessment of the damage caused, and it is probably better to avoid very dramatic – or let us say, panic – scenarios. what we believe is important now is to address the damage and to try to see what we can do at european level, bearing in mind one important thing – at european level we are responsible for one per cent of the public budget. the other 99% is in the hands of the member states. so i think it is unfair to look to the european union to try to solve all the problems, where we do not have the means to do so.
mr. chairman, please! in your 2020 strategy, you set very ambitious targets to increase employment from 63% to 76%, to reduce youth unemployment to 10% and to focus on education, which is the key to achieving a future where 40% of europeans have a higher education. so my question is: will the european social fund and the research and development funds be retained in the future budget of the european union, which is the key to modernity, innovation and employment? do you not think that the development of micro-enterprises should also be encouraged, since this is the best way of self-employment, and today the rates of self-employment are still too low and therefore these questions seem appropriate in this context?
president of the commission. − yes, you know we have proposed education as one of the targets in the eu2020, including fighting against early school leaving and having more tertiary education. we believe it is impossible to discuss european competitiveness without addressing the issue of education. that is why we are trying to convince all member states to accept that target and, certainly, afterwards there has to be a mobilisation of resources, some from member states and some from the european union. we have to discuss afterwards the financial perspective. we are not yet there but, certainly, i think some actions should also be taken at european level, complementing the efforts made by the national governments. indeed, in the social fund, we already have some actions for young people for apprenticeships and for traineeships. this is our intention. we cannot anticipate what funds will be available for the social fund but, certainly, we believe that we should have adequate ambition at the european instruments’ level.
president of the commission. − the employment guidelines are very much dependent on the overall economic growth, but we intend to reinforce the employment aspect in our eu 2020 strategy. in fact we have four guidelines: increasing labour market participation and reducing structural unemployment, developing a skilled workforce, promoting job quality and lifelong learning, improving the performance of the education systems and increasing the participation in socioeducation, as well as combating poverty and social exclusion. these are general guidelines that have now to be pursued by the european institutions with all the instruments they have at their disposal, and by national governments. it is true that there is no silver bullet, there is no magical solution or panacea for unemployment in europe. it has to come also from the overall measures taken for growth in terms of respect for financial stability, in terms of confidence in our markets, in terms of tapping the potential of the internal market. that is the only way to do it. when it comes to the automobile industry, of course we know that there was over-capacity not only in europe but in the world, and we are following this very closely with the industry itself, including with the trade unions in the sector.
president of the commission. − i want to win this competitiveness battle globally. one thing is sure: we need more people, working more and longer – and i would add, better, in a more competitive way. there is no contradiction between having longer working lives and having some immigration to europe. in fact, it is quite extraordinary, but today there are almost one million job vacancies in germany and almost half a million in the uk. this shows that there is a problem of mismatch between the supply and demand for labour. there is a lot to do in this area. i believe that pension reforms are also a way of contributing to that. i want to underline that, during this crisis, member states did not resort to the traditional policy of having people leave the workforce earlier. they have not done so. in fact it has been possible to keep people in work for longer. this is important because, for europe to remain competitive, we need to raise the employment rate in europe.
mr. chairman, please! in your speech today you mentioned that one of the commission's priorities in employment policy is to help graduates, young people, to enter the labour market effectively. we know that the unemployment rate in this social group is very high today. in spain it is now almost 40%, in poland 20% and unfortunately it is constantly increasing. the problem seems to be the lack of adaptation of education courses to the needs of the labour market and the poor availability of initial vocational training. in your opinion, can we speak of a low effectiveness of the leonardo da vinci vocational education and training programme? how do you rate this program? is the european commission preparing new measures, if so, what are they to prevent the increase in youth unemployment? what can you, mr president barroso, offer and propose to young people in europe today?
president of the commission. − youth unemployment is the most dramatic problem now in unemployment in europe because it is more than 20%. that is why we have announced three concrete initiatives: ‘youth on the move’, ‘youth employment’ and ‘new skills for new jobs’. ‘youth on the move’ to improve efficiency and equity of european education and training systems; ‘youth employment’ to look at ways to overcome the impact of the crisis on young people and ‘new skills for new jobs’ to better match skills and labour supply with demand. i have just highlighted the situation in two of the largest member states in europe because, by 2020, 16 million more jobs will require high qualifications and, for example, the european social fund will spend eur 13.5 million, between 2007 and 2013, in promoting adaptability measures for workers and enterprises. so there are some measures that we can take at european level, community level, to complement the action of our member states regarding the problem of youth unemployment.
president of the commission. − i have to remind you that it was the commission that launched the climate change and energy package and that we have highlighted the great potential for the creation of jobs in some sectors of the so-called greening of the economy and that, certainly, the priority for the future is such, one of the most important targets of the eu 2020. we have put at the centre of the eu 2020 our climate and energy targets, from 20% reduction of greenhouse gases, to 20% renewables and to 20% gains in energy efficiency. for instance, to have this target of 20% renewables, we are going to create jobs throughout the renewables sector. so it is certainly the central piece of our economic strategy for the future and, in fact, we have put that as one of the core objectives. growth, not only smart growth and equitable growth, but also sustainable growth.
president of the commission. − for women it had risen to 9.3% by february 2010, compared with 9.8% for men, so lower than for men. it is true though, as you said, that in the future female employment may give cause for more concern, as some of the sectors which will be most affected by the upcoming fiscal tightening are precisely those more dependent on women’s jobs. what we have to do is to ask member states to reflect this in their policies and not to accept that women be disadvantaged in this transition. we believe that the target rate for employment – and we have also discussed this with the member states in the european council – should be aimed at promoting the employment both of men and of women. in fact, in some member states there is great potential for this. there are some member states where the employment rate for women is still very much lower than for men.
president barroso, thank you for your answers and for being present during question hour here at the european parliament. i think it was interesting. thank you, colleagues, for being active during the last hour. we will also meet next month during question hour with president barroso.
madam president! i'll try to fit in really in a minute. fukuyama may have been wrong about liberal democracy being the end of history, but he was certainly right about liberal democracy being the best thing that could happen to people. i wish everyone could live under those conditions. unfortunately, in latin america, democracy is being replaced by populism, and capitalism is being replaced by socialism, which is economic populism. i 'm going to turn this over to mrs. ashton . commissioner, i have a great request that our experience and the money of european taxpayers, our know-how, be directed primarily to those countries that are on the path to democracy and the building of a free market economy, and not to those that are building populist dictatorships.
mr. chairman, please! five years after the tulip revolution, a bloody revolution was carried out after the resignation of president akayev. of course, two reasons must be sought: firstly, nepotism, corruption, and therefore the lack of foundations for a democratic state, and secondly, the financial and economic problems of the country. the initiative of the president to allow mr pierre morel to give us a full account of what is actually happening in kyrgyzstan today seems to be quite important. the urgent appeal is that, in the situation in this country, which is known to be a zone of russian influence and also to have a us military base, the active involvement of the european union should be directed primarily towards building the foundations of a democratic state and ensuring that state's internal security. over 80 deaths is a bad sign in the construction of this country. so i renew my heartfelt appeal and i have my fingers crossed for the mission of the president.
in writing. stabilisation of the situation in central asia is a guarantee of good cooperation with the eu. no one doubts that kyrgyzstan has a special role to play here. the european union considers kyrgyzstan to be strategically important as a country with energy and natural resources and as the host of a us military base supporting nato forces in afghanistan. at the same time, the lack of reforms after kyrgyzstan's independence has led to the dramatic situation we are witnessing today. for now, let's focus on keeping civilians safe and delivering humanitarian aid. in addition, we should take all possible measures to prevent the radicalization of this country. we can't let this civil war go on. in the long term, a new strategy for the whole region is needed. a concrete eu position covering key aspects such as the prevention of religious fundamentalism, the fight against poverty and corruption, the building of civil society, the defence of human rights and democratisation is needed. in particular, we should send a mission to observe the upcoming elections. we must keep our finger on the pulse and, while avoiding interference in internal affairs, we must do everything we can to ensure that this country turns to democracy and, once the situation has stabilised, carries out effective reforms. i believe that the eu's continued assistance to the country must be conditional on reforms to ensure the rule of law and respect for human rights.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. my honourable predecessors have already mentioned the benefits of cohesion policy, and i do not want to repeat myself here. i would just like to emphasise that my country poland and my region greater poland also benefit from cohesion policy. i'm very pleased to hear that, and that's how i understand the changes in the regulation. i welcome the continuing effort to make better use of the funds, to make better use of the funds within the cohesion policy. in order to improve implementation and uptake, it is necessary to continuously simplify and make more flexible the rules that guide the implementation of this policy. i therefore see this regulation as a further step towards simplifying implementation. it's good to see you. i would also like to say that this effort must be continuous, we must constantly fight against excessive bureaucracy, we must constantly try to make the rules favourable to the beneficiaries.
in writing. in 2009, european farmers faced considerable difficulties. revenues fell by almost a quarter and the crisis affected most agricultural markets, including milk, cereals, pork, beef, olives, etc. the most difficult situation was by far the dairy market. as a result of the global price collapse, european milk producers have suffered huge losses. the plight of farmers was expressed in various meetings, and there were mass protests by farmers in many countries. the price fluctuations are not as high now, but that does not mean that the problems are gone. we are still facing low demand and price volatility in many agricultural sectors. the current intervention mechanisms in the milk sector and the establishment of the milk fund have proved insufficient. we can already imagine what happens when these instruments go out. certainly, further declines in revenues and turbulence in the market are to be expected. i agree with the commissioner that the difficult situation on the milk market should be resolved immediately and not wait until 2013 when the big cap reform is planned. we expect a decision from the high level group in june, which will present its reflections and ideas for improving the situation in the dairy sector. i hope that this committee will meet our expectations and present a balanced program of stabilization measures. i am glad that the commissioner shares our concerns and is taking our suggestions into account.
c7-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07-07
colleagues, it is not necessary for the council to be here. they are not obliged to be here, but we did of course expect the court of auditors’ highest representatives. they are not here and we are very surprised, as it is certainly not a problem of transport. it is not so far from luxembourg and they can travel by car without any problem. nevertheless we should start our discussion, not knowing yet why they have not arrived. we will start the discussion without them. we know that the votes are postponed and will be held in two weeks’ time in brussels. we have already decided about that. so there is only one possibility for us: we have to start the discussion, not knowing whether they will be able to be here in the next half-hour or hour.
ladies and gentlemen! anyway, we can start the discussion. the point is, we can get to work.
the secretary general will be there, no doubt.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. it should be noted that in all the institutions i have dealt with - the court of justice, the court of auditors, now absent, the economic and social committee, the committee of the regions, the european ombudsman and the european data protection supervisor - there is generally a considerable improvement, but it does not mean that the ideal has been achieved. let's be frank, the least transparent is the council's financial situation. moreover, cooperation with the council on discharge leaves much to be desired. the committee on budgetary control supported my proposal to postpone the decision to grant the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the 2008 budget. the situation is similar to last year. the coordinators of the committee on budgetary control met with representatives of the spanish presidency council on the basis that the progress made in cooperation last year as a result of the extended discharge procedure should be viewed positively. unfortunately, this year the answers to the questions put by me and the coordinators were absolutely unsatisfactory and raised many doubts. for this reason, supported by the coordinators of all the political groups, i have decided to postpone the decision to grant discharge. the financing of the various aspects of the common foreign and security policy, the annual accounts and the closure of additional budget accounts remain unclear. the issue of verification of invoices, the publication of administrative decisions providing the legal basis for budgetary matters, requires considerable improvement. moreover, paradoxically, many of the data provided by the council related to the previous budgetary period. as regards the court of justice, we see, as does the court of auditors, some weaknesses in the internal tendering procedures. we therefore support the court of auditors' suggestion that the procurement procedures of the court of auditors should be improved. we welcome the reduction in the time taken for the proceedings, but on the other hand we note the continuing backlog. we are pleased to announce the opening of an internal audit function. we welcome the practice of recording progress in the activity report compared to the previous year's discharge. i would like to stress very strongly that we regret the continued reluctance of the members of the court to publish their declarations of assets. as regards the court of auditors, the external audit has not provided grounds for concluding that the financial resources allocated to the court are being misused. i repeat the suggestion that the possibility of rationalising the court's structure should be considered, for example by limiting the number of members and not treating the court of auditors as a political representation. in the case of the economic and social committee, the court of auditors' audit revealed no major irregularities. it is appropriate to recommend that the provisions on the financial aspects of employees be interpreted and applied in the same way by all union institutions so that employees of any of them are not treated more favourably. it is very good that the administrative cooperation agreement between the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions has been adopted. we encourage both institutions to report on the progress made in harmonising internal control standards. we have no major objections to the committee of the regions and the european ombudsman. we note that the european ombudsman has increased the number of posts considerably. the question is, should he increase it at this rate, even though he has more work to do? so, the problem is with the council. the other six institutions are fine.
we must keep to the allotted time. i have some information. we have had contact with the head of cabinet of the president of the court of auditors, and we also checked our last debates at the european parliament in 2008 and 2009. the court of auditors was not present during our discussions and neither was the council. the court of auditors and the council were not present during our discussions. mr caldeira, the president of the court of auditors, also remarked that the position of the court in its technical functions is to attend the budgetary control committee meeting, but to stay in the background in political debates at plenary. president caldeira will contact me during the day and explain the position of the court of auditors on our discussions. we checked for the last two years and the court of auditors was not present. if we want to organise it for the next time, they could maybe be present next year. they were of course informed about our meeting, but were not present over the last two years. they will certainly be present in october and november when they will present their report.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? thank you very much for your fair presentation of the facts regarding the past years. however, i wanted to emphasise very strongly that the treaty of lisbon has entered into force, which increases the role of the european parliament. we are therefore entitled to expect, not so much in a formal but in a practical, political sense, that the representatives of the council, as my honourable predecessor said, will be present at this extremely important debate, perhaps the most important from the point of view of european taxpayers and european voters. the absence of the council is a complete misunderstanding and i am inclined to suggest to my honourable predecessor that in this situation the debate on the council itself should be postponed and wait for the council representatives to arrive. i would like to stress once again what i said earlier, namely that the council has not shown a willingness to cooperate constructively with us as representatives of the committee on budgetary control, as coordinators within that committee, and today's absence is as if another element of that lack of cooperation.
ladies and gentlemen, i shall be contacting both the court of auditors and the council today. i will certainly expect the council and the court of auditors to be present at such meetings in the future. i'll also be speaking personally with prime minister zapatero on this matter, who is holding the rotating presidency. today i'm going to solve this case for the future.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? there is a problem, namely, i see on the board the name of mr lopez garrido, who will be speaking on behalf of the council, but he will be referring to what i said about the council's budget and the non-implementation of that budget, the council's documents - he did not hear those words because he came very late.
the rapporteur. i wanted to say very briefly that i would like to give the minister a chance to address my allegations and i would like to repeat them in one minute.
the european personnel selection office, known as epso, is the interinstitutional body responsible for recruiting staff to the institutions of the european union. i am very pleased that the discharge reports deal with this subject. efforts are needed to explore and address geographical disparities among candidates and laureates for the civil service of the european union institutions. the continued under-representation of citizens of the new member states, including poland, but not only among the civil service of the european union is particularly unacceptable. this is particularly striking in my view among middle and senior management. the very long recruitment process and the management of the so-called laureate lists also raise doubts. often, the winners of the competitions - those who have been successful in the competition - take up other jobs outside the eu institutions because they simply cannot wait that long, and the whole recruitment process is wasted. i am pleased that epso has drawn up a corrective programme and has taken account of the court of auditors' observations and that epso has already taken account of some of the european parliament's observations. i will certainly be following the effects of this corrective programme closely, always remembering that epso's aim should be first and foremost to reach the best candidates as possible with the institution's offer, to select the best candidates as possible, to create the best lists of laureates proportionally representing all member states.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? thank you, mr. geier, for noticing that i sometimes speak with my own voice. i must say, i'll be learning a wonderful skill from the council representative the spanish minister, who always disappears when he knows there's going to be criticism of the council. he wasn't there when i first spoke, and he's not here now, when i want to speak again. it's no coincidence that out of the seven institutions that i've had the opportunity to evaluate, six are doing well and one is still causing problems. i'll remind you, it was the same thing last year. the council did not receive a discharge until november. i believe that this year it will be earlier, but i would not like to allow a situation where we get a document not for 2008 but for 2007. this is either a sign of the mess in the general secretariat of the council or of the fact that parliament is treated like a poorly educated pupil. the situation where all the european institutions are equal, but the council thinks it is more equal, as in george orwell's animal farm, is absolutely disturbing. i think, however, and let us be fair, that there is a very important proposal in what the council representative said. the point is to get away from the famous gentlemen's agreement of 1970, and to recognise that the european parliament of 40 years ago, which was then appointed by national parliaments and not elected, must now be taken more seriously. the fact that we are leaving the gentlemen's agreement is a very good thing, and i thank the council very much for that.
mr. chairman, please! today, the united states is the only world power. they are a full-fledged and multi-dimensional power: cultural, military and economic. we are fortunate to have this power as our friends, based on the same values and foundations on which the european union is built. so it is worth appreciating and supporting the united states in its pious work of fighting terrorism, for for decades it has been the principal defender of western europe against communism. it was only because of him that a free europe was free for 40 years. today, the united states is very strongly committed to the free world being free of terrorism. comparing the efforts, the financial expenditures and the technologies devoted to the fight against terrorism between the united states and the european union is an embarrassment for the european countries and for the european union. so if there's anything we can do, and that's my understanding of this agreement, to help the united states fight terrorism, we shouldn't hesitate. of course we should respect the principles we have been talking about, but i understand that this is a matter of cooperation between the council, the commission and parliament. what is required of us today is the political will to make such an agreement. i think that's the will that should be present here. the united states should enter into a treaty-agreement with the european union that is both friendly and partnership-based.
our debate takes place literally two days before the meeting of the ministers of the 27 member states of the european union on the same subject. so our position is potentially, let's be blunt, a form of political pressure. we are discussing this issue at a time when the fate of the negotiating mandate in the negotiations with the united states is being decided. we have only two months and one week to begin negotiations with washington. the european commission is not very flexible in this area, it has not proposed - with all the sympathy and respect for the commissioner - any similar but alternative position. but the all-or-nothing approach is not only unethical and contrary to the spirit of the european union, it is also a dead end. i'm all for close cooperation with the u.s. and sharing data, but the devil is in the details. i'm not a fan of the bill of rights, but i'm asking if it's true that the mandate doesn't respect the bill of rights. what if the passenger data we're handing over to the u.s., which i'm all for, is being used for something other than its intended purpose?
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not as distinguished a film critic as my esteemed foreword. i wouldn't want our debate to be about cinema. in particular, the transfer of pnr data should be a matter of course. once collected for commercial purposes, they can now be used to combat crime. but this just cause has become, in a sense, part of - let's be frank - a kind of interinstitutional war that has been going on for years between the european parliament and the council. it is a pity that the council has introduced this draft, which is the most substantive and well-founded in my group's and mine's opinion, without any consultation of parliament. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the proposal. i have the impression that in the debate on the pnr, the supporters of this solution are paradoxically in the camp of its opponents, because they do not like the way the council is treating parliament. let's just say, from international practice, this is not the first time this has happened. moreover, even some of those who support the transfer of pnrs believe that it is now necessary to demonstrate politically, to show the council its place in the order, in a word, to punish the council for its arrogance. and in the end, like the polish proverb says, we throw out the baby with the bath, whether we like it or not. we are rightly applauding the council, but on the other hand we are in a sense limiting our own instruments in the fight against terrorists, the mafia and organised crime.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? i am in my sixth year in the european parliament and it is good manners - though i do not want to lecture anyone - to ask the rapporteur for his opinion on this crucial issue. i would like to say and remind everyone that it was only last november that our parliament, in its current term of office, gave the council its discharge for 2007. so it can be said that once again the council is not presenting the relevant documents. i am personally embarrassed that in evaluating this in 2008 we received documents partially for 2007, and therefore absolutely inadequate to our expectations and demands. but as a man of compromise, as i am known to be, i would like to give the council a chance, and indeed this may be the last chance for the council to prepare proper documents and to move away from the unfortunate gentlemen's agreement of 1970, which de facto does not allow us, according to the council, to control this institution. i am therefore in favour of giving the council a further two or six weeks to put this matter to the council and then, in accordance with what mr staes has said, i shall vote for it immediately, at the latest in june.
rapporteur. − mr president, i was unable to reach strasbourg and so i thank you very much on behalf of my colleagues who contributed to the debate. i was pleased that the council was represented, as the discharge process is one which concerns not only the eu institutions, but also the member states, which the council represents. the real meat of my report is the number of proposals that aim to reduce error rates, to pinpoint problems and to improve the matching of information from the commission and from the court of auditors, allowing us all in future to identify and tackle the real problem areas in our expenditure. with the lisbon treaty in place, it is time for a review of the discharge process itself. my report calls for a higher-level debate involving the eu institutions and, of course, the member states, which are responsible for managing around 80% of expenditure. although my report is about the 2008 discharge, it contains many issues that are highly topical today. we all want to make sure that greece can overcome the problems from the past. the section on turkey has attracted attention and, whilst we must ensure pre-accession funds are used more effectively, let me stress that we are not about to change the nature of the eu’s relationship with that country. all the improvements i have highlighted are essential. the current financial difficulties mean that every euro must be used wisely and bring benefits to the people across our various countries – including the euros in the structural and cohesion funds. i look forward to working with the commission and the court of auditors over the coming weeks to bring the calls for action in my report to fruition, and i look forward to reporting back to you on their implementation in the coming months.
in writing. - i welcome the results of today's vote. i think that in working on the document we have managed to develop a clear and ambitious position, especially with regard to funding. i want to emphasize again: terrorist attacks are not targeting airlines, they are targeting states. this country is a guarantor of the safety of its citizens and it must fulfill that duty. today's vote of 613 to 7 is a very clear signal to the council. it shows the european parliament's strong determination to oblige all member states to bear at least part of the cost of air traffic protection.
in writing. − the eu's motto 'unite diversity' is a perfect fit for the europa project. i voted in favour of this report because it is the first serious attempt to present the cultural heritage of the whole of europe in digital format. europe has one of the world's greatest cultural treasures, which i believe should be accessible to the widest possible public. it is a bit sad that different eu countries are not equally active in transferring their cultural heritage to the virtual space. this is particularly evident among the new eu countries. other issues still to be resolved include the financing of the project, public-private partnerships and, most importantly, copyright protection. they need to be addressed as soon as possible so that people in europe and around the world can have access to europe's cultural heritage. i hope that our adopted report will give a new impetus to the implementation of the europa project.
in writing. - as a member of the committee on culture and education, i support the report 'europeana' next steps'. europeana, by linking the digital resources of europe's national libraries, provides a digital access point to the cultural and scientific heritage of humanity. the project was supported by the association of polish librarians. the successful implementation of this project requires stable funding to guarantee the participation of national libraries and the universal availability of europeana resources. only 5% of europe's cultural heritage is now available in digital form almost half (47%) come from france, 6% from germany and 5% each from the netherlands and the united kingdom. the project assumes that 10 million digital materials will be available from june 2010 and 15 million in 2011. to enable this, the funding for the digitisation of cultural products should be increased, ensuring close cooperation between copyright holders, cultural institutions, the public and private sectors. to ensure that europeana is used by as many people as possible, the materials must be available in all the official languages of the european union. an information campaign is needed to raise awareness of europeana. the portal must also take into account the needs of people with disabilities to enable them to have full access to common european knowledge. in this context, the european commission and individual publishers should provide special digital versions of works, such as audio, to people with disabilities.
in writing. - i believe that the creation of the europeana multimedia online library is a very important step in the process of digitising european and world cultural heritage. that is why i supported the report by helga trupel. the project provides access to over four and a half million books, videos, maps and magazines, photographs and music, and is an archive that preserves for future generations content previously written on paper, canvas or parchment, which is extremely valuable for both ordinary citizens and scientists, making it easier for them to access rare and hard-to-reach works. the lack of uniformity in copyright law in the member states is a major obstacle to the further development of europeana. we should strive to standardise the law so that as many works as possible are available to citizens, while ensuring that creators are fairly remunerated. the success of this project will depend to a large extent on the continued financial commitment of the member states.
in writing. - i believe that animal welfare is a priority issue with a huge impact on public health and the european economy. it is necessary to implement consistent legislation in this area quickly and efficiently and to establish an animal welfare coordination body. the current community action plan has been implemented satisfactorily, but in the future more attention should be paid to the issue of transport and monitoring of animals. the level of animal welfare standards in the various countries of the union needs to be balanced, given the current wide disparities in animal welfare and the increasing destabilisation of the breeding markets.
in writing. − today we adopted an important resolution assessing the european commission's action plan on animal welfare 2006-2010. the high standards of animal health are not only motivated by ethical considerations but also by a concern for the safety and quality of animal products, which undoubtedly contributes to the creation of a positive, solid european agricultural brand.
in writing. − on climate change, agriculture should not be seen as a harmful branch of the economy, but rather as an industry that has not only the best capacity to adapt to changes in the ecosystem, but also to effectively counter the harmful effects of global warming. already today, there is a significant reduction in co2 emissions from agriculture compared to previous decades. investments in rural development, pillar ii of the cap, will enable better training for farmers, technological modernisation of farms and appropriate environmental and biodiversity monitoring and control. properly managed farms will result in carbon sequestration and greater food security. innovative research and appropriate cap investments will help agriculture become a powerful tool to fight climate change and air pollution.
in writing. − to achieve fair and uniform conditions for all farmers in the european union, which should undoubtedly be the main objective of the reform of the common agricultural policy, it is also necessary to take care of areas with specific natural constraints. in order to harmonise the rules for the eligibility of areas for the payment, it is necessary, in particular, to harmonise the criteria for the classification of such areas. this objective will not be achieved without close cooperation with the member states. the pragmatism in the definition of biophysical indicators by individual countries suggested by the author of the report may be a danger in the form of attempts to promote their own national interests, but as long as the commission is concerned about the respect of the community legal framework, such a solution should significantly improve the objective identification of the areas in question.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution (a7-0056/2010), because the second pillar of the common agricultural policy, namely rural development policy, is of the utmost importance for improving the efficiency of the cap itself, but also for facilitating management in areas with a handicap. the document prepared by the rapporteur is very much needed not only by us but by the whole european union. we need to have knowledge about land that for reasons beyond the control of the owners, is excluded from efficiency and good use. i agree with the rapporteur in her assessment of the review of the criteria for classifying disadvantaged farms launched in 2005. the criteria for supporting these areas, which were already prepared in advance, now need to be modified to take account of the actual difficulties. it is also worth remembering the areas that meet certain criteria but where the obstacles have already been removed by the application of certain solutions. it should be the responsibility of the member states to identify their areas and to shape aid and development programmes. of course, all these measures must be based on a community framework.
we have received the sad news of the murder in mexico of the finnish international human rights observer, mr tyri antero jaakkola. he and his mexican activist companion, betty cariño trujillo, were murdered while on a mission to monitor human rights in that country. on behalf of the european parliament, i would like to express my condolences and sympathy to the families of the victims. as you can see, there are casualties in our world all the time. as you may know, i paid an official visit to the united states last week. we have officially opened a new liaison office with the united states congress in washington, d.c. i also had a number of important talks to help strengthen cooperation, particularly economic cooperation, between the european union and the united states. we talked about the strategic partnership and the changes that have taken place in the european union since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. we expect to cooperate with the united states on an equal footing. this coming sunday, may 9th, is the 60th anniversary of robert schuman's announcement of his declaration. the european parliament will open its doors to all on saturday 8 may in brussels and on sunday in strasbourg. in luxembourg too, there are occasional celebrations. in strasbourg, we will be hosting the vice-president of the commission and the european affairs ministers of france and germany, amongst others. i will also be there and i encourage you all to come to strasbourg next sunday, in four days.
the next item is the joint debate on: report by íñigo méndez de vigo on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs on the draft protocol amending protocol no 36 on transitional provisions as regards the composition of the european parliament until the end of the 2009-2014 parliamentary term: opinion of the european parliament (art. 48 (3) of the eu treaty) [17196/2009 - c7-0001/2010 2009/0813(nle) ] (a70115/2010) report by íñigo méndez de vigo on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs on the recommendation of the european council on the proposal not to convene a convention to amend the treaties as regards the transitional provisions on the composition of the european parliament[17196/2009 - c7-0002/2010 2009/0814(nle) (a7011/2010)
madam president, i strongly disagree with the previous speaker. this house had to answer a question on whether or not we should convene a convention to decide that issue, and we have taken a decision not to do so, but we have done so out of respect for this instrument – for this new instrument, which actually increases the legitimacy of all the decisions which we make. obviously that does not set a precedent for the future, because all the really important issues concerning the changes to the treaty, such as for example the electoral procedure, would require the convening of a convention. let me thank íñigo and the coordinators for taking the decision. it was not easy. we had a problem with designating an additional 18 members of this house because certain member states did not actually plan for a procedure, but we decided that representativeness is the most important issue, that this is the principle which we should be guided by and that this house should have a balanced representation as quickly as possible. that is why we took a pragmatic solution, prompting member states to complete their election procedures as quickly as possible, provided, obviously, that all the parliamentarians who are going to join us are going to be directly elected.
the treaty of lisbon has changed the composition of the european parliament. although it has been in force for six months, no intergovernmental conference has yet been convened to implement these changes. member states must ratify the special protocol with an additional number of mandates. it's a big operation, but it doesn't change the fact that the treaty must be implemented in full, without delay. i agree with the rapporteur's position on this matter. it should be borne in mind that it is in the interests of the member states whose national delegations are enlarged by the treaty that their new members should be able to represent their constituents as soon as possible. this is in line with the fundamental democratic principles on which the union is founded. it is important that all additional meps enter parliament at the same time to avoid any allegations of the improper functioning of our institution.
in writing. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i believe that as the european parliament we are obliged to take a decision as soon as possible so that our future colleagues, democratically elected, can be given their seats. this is extremely important not only for their sake, but above all for the sake of respecting the decision of the voters. we can't keep them waiting any longer. all our new colleagues should be elected through democratic elections. i am aware that there are at present considerable differences between the electoral systems in the member states. i therefore hope that the current situation gives us the motivation to start a dialogue on the harmonisation of electoral procedures in the eu countries.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the european commission on the preparations for the summit of euro area heads of state or government on 7 may.
acting president of the council. - mr president, on the 7th of this week there will be a meeting of the heads of state and government of the euro area and this is the debate in the european parliament concerning that important meeting, which aims to formalise the agreement reached on loans to greece, the financial support package to greece, to deal with the serious financial situation of that euro area country, and also to reflect on the lessons to be drawn from that situation, from those agreements, in relation to the future of the euro area and the european union as a whole. what the heads of state and government are going to do on friday is to confirm the financial solution that has been given to greece by the european union, that is to say, to formalize the commitment - ultimately, the political commitment - that was already made at the meeting of the heads of state and government of the european union on 11 february, a commitment of solidarity with greece to solve its very difficult financial situation. and so what the heads of state and government are going to do on friday is to present, to set out, to agree the availability of the remaining 15 members of the eurozone, once the greek government has approved a tough economic and financial adjustment programme, for this country to receive this aid, these loans aimed at its financial stability and also aimed at the financial stability of the euro area as a whole, which is something that was politically committed not only for the greek case, but was politically committed on 11 february in a resolution of the heads of state and government of the european union. this decision is important, politically very relevant, historically relevant, because it is a decision necessary for the credibility of the euro area, for the external credibility of the union as a whole from a financial point of view. it is important for fiscal consolidation, as required by the treaties of the european union, fiscal consolidation in the euro area and in the union as a whole, and it is very important for consolidating an effective and lasting economic recovery in the european union. today, commissioner olli rehn, who is present here, published the commission's spring 2010-2011 forecasts, which point to the gradual economic recovery of the european union as a message. the commission forecasts confirm that economic recovery is underway in the european union and that, after experiencing the deepest recession in its history, the european union as a whole is expected to grow by 1% in 2010 - this year - and by 1.75% in 2011. the economic recession in the european union ended in the third quarter of last year and the economic recovery has begun, to which the european economic recovery plan and the decisions of the member states have clearly contributed by injecting very large sums into the economies of the various countries, money coming from the national budgets and also from the community budget through the european economic recovery plan, and that is one of the reasons why, after having gone through - again - the worst recession in its history, we are already seeing an economic recovery in the union. these are the forecasts that the european commission has made, and the decision to lend to greece is undoubtedly a major contribution to the effectiveness and durability of the 'two-factor' economic recovery in the euro area and the european union as a whole. we believe that the european union has responded well to the current economic situation, to the economic crisis, by doing what it could to respond to that situation and, in particular, to the very serious financial situation in greece, because what the european union has done in the last few months is to take clear steps towards what has been called economic governance or the economic governance of the union. clear steps have been taken which at times may have seemed slow, too slow, but which have been taken with certainty and determination and which will culminate next friday in this meeting of the heads of state and government of the union. we believe that economic governance, the economic governance of the union, must have three solid bases. the first is responsibility for the commitments made, for example when a treaty on union is signed and ratified. the second is solidarity, which is a principle at the heart of the european union and all its policies. and thirdly, coordination in fiscal consolidation, coordination for the external representation of the european union - for example, in view of the g20 meetings - coordination also for growth and for overcoming the crisis. and i am convinced that this document which commissioner olli rehn is preparing and which the commission will present on 12 may will be in that spirit. finally, i would like to say that economic governance of the union, as it is being carried out, developed and laid down in the european union, requires effective instruments, requires an element of supervision. i am convinced that this is what the document being prepared by the european commission will be about. we need quality public finances. we need supervision of the financial system, european supervision of the financial system, and in this connection i would call on the european parliament to adopt as soon as possible the financial supervision package, the regulations and directives which are now being discussed in the european parliament and which will be discussed in the next few days in the committee responsible and then in the plenary. and we also need mechanisms to prevent possible crises and we also need, finally - as i said earlier - the ability to have a single voice in the union's external representation, and i am speaking clearly in this case of the g20 meetings. i believe that these are steps towards a government or economic governance of the union; aid, loans to greece are part of that, and that is why i believe that the european union is on the right track and has consolidated that good track. i am convinced that the heads of state and government will approve this package of financial aid to greece, which is, in short - as they said in their declaration of 11 february - a bet on financial stability, on the economic stability of the euro area and of the european union as a whole.
president of the commission. − mr president, i was asked to make a statement to this house ahead of friday’s meeting of the heads of state and government of the euro area. let me first say a word of condolence for the families of the victims of the violence in athens today. to disagree and protest is a right of citizens in our democratic societies, but nothing can justify the recourse to violence. let me address the financial support package for greece endorsed last sunday. then i will give you some of my views on what needs to be done to prevent a repetition of a crisis of this type. as regards greece, a multi-annual programme of fiscal consolidation and structural reform has been agreed by the greek authorities. this was jointly prepared with the commission, the european central bank and the international monetary fund. the greek government has put forward a solid and credible package that will steer its economy on a sustainable path and restore confidence. it is important that we acknowledge the courage that prime minister papandreou and his government have shown. greece will undertake painful efforts, but we all know that there are no alternatives to such efforts. in return, following the recommendation of the commission and of the european central bank, the coordinated european mechanism for assistance to greece has been activated. this is an unprecedented act of solidarity, unmatched anywhere in the world. this assistance will be decisive in helping greece to get its economy back on track and will preserve the financial stability of the euro area as a whole. allow me to stress that the commission has made sure that the mechanism, whilst being based on bilateral loans, is a european one. the commission was instrumental in setting it up and will play an important role in its management and implementation. the commission is, and will remain, central in assessing greece’s compliance with the package’s conditionality. the commission will also manage the bilateral loans from the member states. by the end of the week we will already have a critical mass of member states that have completed the process to provide those bilateral loans to greece. it is my firm conviction that the unprecedented financial support given to greece – eur 110 billion – and the adjustment programme are an adequate response to the greek crisis. we have no reason to doubt that it will be firmly implemented both by greece and by the euro-area member states. this view is shared by others who matter. i noticed, for instance, the supportive statement of the past, current and future chairs of the g20 finance ministers, issued just now. regrettably, not all market players seem convinced already. we have to say loud and clear that the doubters are wrong. i will come back to this in a moment. at the meeting of the euro-area heads of state and government on friday, we will look beyond this deal to what we need to do to draw the right lessons from this situation. the debate will of course be a starting point, because decisions need to be debated further and ultimately taken with all the 27 member states – the euro-area member states but also all the other member states of the european union. let me say this very clearly: discussing and taking decisions at 27 is a source of strength. whilst we have to speed up our processes, the fact is that the joint action of the 27 – unparalleled anywhere in the world – provides the best possible foundation for our joint future in an ever more interlinked world. i see two main strands for reflection and action: first, a reassessment of the rules for economic governance, including the stability and growth pact, and second, financial markets reform. the commission has been working intensively on economic governance and is ready to present its proposals on how to improve this next wednesday. there are three main building blocks to be considered. first, responsibility: we need to reinforce the stability and growth pact and, above all, member states’ compliance. the case for reinforcement of both the preventive and the corrective arm of the pact is obvious. i am pleased that most of those who have previously questioned – or even suggested weakening – the pact now accept the need for stronger rules and – most importantly – for their strict implementation. second, interdependence: we are all in this together. i think the crisis has clearly shown that we need to address the imbalances between our member states, in particular within the euro area. this includes divergences in their competitiveness, as this is one crucial element that causes other types of imbalances. this cannot, of course, mean that some become less competitive so that others look relatively more competitive. we are all competing on world markets. what we need is to enhance our overall competitiveness in a balanced, mutually reinforcing way. i also believe we need to look at the other causes of imbalances. to make progress, we will propose increased surveillance and increased economic policy coordination. i am also happy that i see more openness now when it comes to the member states for this purpose. third, coherence: we have to ask ourselves whether our system of fiscal rules is complete. i see merit in creating a permanent mechanism for dealing with disruptive situations. after all, it is better to be safe than sorry. i hope that we can seize the moment – and i count on you to help us deliver these reforms. i believe from a political point of view that, in terms of european integration, we are at one of those moments where, if we do not build up europe, we will fall behind. we cannot have a standstill. it is a very special moment, the moment we are living today in europe where our solidarity, our responsibility, is being tested every day. i hope the leaders of our member states will be able to rise to the occasion, not just to help the others but to show their responsibility to our common european project. these reforms will be introduced against the background of unprecedented efforts already under way. that deficit and debt levels in some member states need to be corrected with determination, and faster than targeted before the crisis, is undisputed. but it must also be said that we cannot ignore the fact that the budgetary deterioration in 2009 was largely due to the working of the automatic stabilisers in the face of an unprecedented decline in economic activity caused by a financial crisis not originating in europe. in other words, the overall situation in the euro area was largely the result of anti-recession policies advocated all over the world. it was always clear that the situation would subsequently be corrected, and most euro-area members have already undertaken bold reforms, for example of their pensions systems. the responsibility shown by the governments needs to be matched by financial-market players. this is why it is no less urgent to continue delivering a sustainable and responsible financial sector, at the service of the economy and its citizens. one must bear in mind that financial-market players are key actors in driving market sentiment. psychology also matters in markets. the financial crisis was born out of short-termism, pro-cyclicality and a lack of responsibility. that is what we must urgently correct.we need strong and stable european financial services markets to deliver the investments needed for future growth in line with the europe 2020 vision. we need responsible behaviour from all our market players. we have already been doing a lot as regards financial markets reform. i count on this house to make this clear to all. european institutions are acting, and must be seen as acting together: parliament, the council and the commission. we have prioritised work on responsible risk management, safer derivatives markets, better financial supervision and ensuring that banks hold adequate capital to cover their real risks. this work must be speeded up. in the coming weeks we will need to complete the reforms already under way. as i said to this house only two weeks ago, i hope to see a breakthrough soon on our proposal for hedge funds and private equity. i would also like early agreement on effective new european supervisory arrangements. the european systemic risk board and the three supervisory authorities should start working at the beginning of 2011. but they must not be mere paper tigers: we have a shared responsibility to ensure they have the tools they need to do their jobs. this includes binding decision-making powers to deal with genuine emergencies, to enforce european rules – and i insist on european rules, not only national rules – and to settle any disputes within the colleges of national supervisors. it is high time to deliver these decisions and make sure they are ambitious. more proposals are on their way this year to improve depositor and investor protection, to strengthen measures against market abuse, to further improve the quality and quantity of bank capital and discourage excessive leverage. over the past three months, and paradoxically still this week, the situation on the sovereign debt markets has brought new concerns to light. the commission is already working on a fundamental overhaul of derivatives markets to increase transparency and safety in these markets. in a first stage, we will present legislation to standardise eligible derivatives contracts, putting them through central counterparty clearing that is properly regulated and supervised. we are also now considering whether further specific measures are needed for sovereign derivatives markets. the crisis has also once again brought the role of credit rating agencies to the fore. these agencies play a pivotal role in the functioning of financial markets, but ratings appear to be too cyclical, too reliant on the general market mood rather than on fundamentals – regardless of whether market mood is too optimistic or too pessimistic. because credit rating agencies have such a key role and influence over the markets, they also have a special responsibility to ensure their assessments are both sound and comprehensive. that is why in 2008 the commission quickly put forward new legislation for these agencies, which will come into force in the next few months. these rules will ensure that credit rating agencies act more transparently, publish their methodologies and avoid conflicts of interest, but we need to go further. to strengthen the supervision of these actors of europe-wide dimension, the commission believes they should be put under the direct supervision of the future european securities markets authority, and that is exactly what we will propose. we have also launched a reflection on whether further measures may be needed to ensure the appropriate rating of sovereign debt in particular. we must get our own house in order while pushing others to do the same. the commission will do whatever is necessary to ensure that financial markets are not a playground for speculation. free markets constitute the basis for the functioning of successful economies, but free markets need rules and compliance, and rules and compliance need to be tightened if irresponsible behaviour puts at risk what cannot and should not be at risk. market behaviour must rest on sound and objective analysis, and financial services must realise that they are exactly that: a service, not an end in itself. they must not become detached from their economic and societal function. in fact, financial-market players are still in business because regulatory authorities and democratic institutions – ultimately the taxpayers – stabilised the markets in the financial crisis. we acted swiftly then, and precisely for that reason, we will also act swiftly in the future. so the message from this friday’s meeting of eurogroup heads of state and government should be clear, and it will be clear: we will do what is needed – on all fronts.
we join the condolences expressed by the president in his speech. the events that the president mentioned took place today in greece. we have great hope of breaking the deadlock in this country. this is a matter of common concern and concern to all members of the european parliament.
i noticed that one of our colleagues, mr barry madlener, had asked to be voted on as part of the blue card. but i already have you on the speaker list, and there's a speaker, barry madlener. and i'll give you a voice in a couple of minutes, and i promise you'll have a voice.
mr salavrakos, i did not interrupt you because you are greek and your words are very important to all of us.
i wouldn't want to have this conversation. but let us all in this chamber, all the members of the european parliament, and i believe also the president of the commission, and on behalf of the council also the secretary of state, express once again our great solidarity with the greek people. these are our friends and we know how great a responsibility there is on both sides of the conflict that is taking place in greece. it's a great responsibility. i wanted to tell you that i have also experienced this responsibility, on both sides: i was a trade unionist and an activist, very active for many years, and i was also head of government, and i am aware of the difficult situation that exists in greece today. we all stand in solidarity and express our deepest sympathy, especially to the families and loved ones of the victims. this is our natural duty in the european parliament. i thank you very much for the responsible debate that took place in this chamber today. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
acting president of the council. - madam president, i am pleased to address a matter of the utmost importance to the council and to the spanish presidency, namely the so-called europe 2020 strategy for growth and quality employment. we have said it before: we are emerging from the worst economic crisis since the 1930s and we must do everything possible to ensure that this recovery which we are seeing begin to take place in the european union, according to the forecasts which the commission has just presented today, and at the same time to mitigate the social consequences of the crisis. but in addition to this 'working in the short term, something that the member states of the union are doing, that the european institutions are doing', we must look beyond the horizon of this decade and ensure the sustainability of our social model, the european social model. this is the double challenge that lies within the europe 2020 strategy. it is a question of not suffering again from a crisis which is not yet completely over, and it is a question of doing so above all by establishing a growth strategy, a growth model adapted to the new times which is also a possible and necessary growth strategy and which signifies the european union's great political and economic commitment for the coming years. they know perfectly well that the europe 2020 strategy began to be discussed at the level of heads of state and government in an informal way on 11 february; that it was then discussed at the european council in march; and that it was also discussed in many of the council formations chaired this semester by the government of spain. the march european council gave its approval to the launch of the europe 2020 strategy, which will be finalized at the june european council, and laid down the elements, the structure and even the road map for the future development of this strategy. the strategy will focus on key areas for europe: knowledge and innovation, a sustainable economy - as also called for by the european parliament - a high employment rate and social inclusion. with regard to these five key objectives, the employment rate, 75% for men and women, 3% of gdp investment in research and development, the so-called 20/20/20 targets in the fight against climate change, the target of reducing school drop-out rates and increasing the proportion of the population with higher education, and the target of promoting social inclusion, in particular poverty reduction, are not yet quantified. all this on the basis of the communication adopted by the commission, which was decisive for the subsequent decision and conclusions adopted by the european council in march. the structure of the europe 2020 strategy is firstly an integrated set of guidelines. the commission has just made its proposal on guidelines for these integrated guidelines the spanish presidency has committed itself to working in all relevant areas of council action to ensure that the ecofin council and the epsco council inform the european council in june and also the employment guidelines which require an opinion of the european parliament. secondly, we have these main objectives which i referred to earlier. thirdly, a new feature of the new strategy: the national objectives. each member state has to set its own national objectives, but these must of course be integrated into the european objectives and supported by the commission and the council. fourthly, there has also been talk of the so-called 'strangleholds' that shape growth at the national level. there is also a new element in the lisbon strategy: the spanish presidency will focus on those matters which affect the internal market. and fifthly, the so-called 'flagship initiatives', which are actually being developed by the commission. the first of these we want to see in the spanish presidency already: the digital agenda, which will be discussed at the telecommunications council in may, following a communication which the commission has promised to make public on 18 may. i would also like to say in conclusion, madam president, that specific discussions on the new strategy are to be held in some council configurations and that, as far as possible, we want these discussions to be public. for example, the next one, at next week's board of education. i would like to stress that the work is not, of course, finished in june. this is when the europe 2020 strategy is going to be launched, but the work does not end there. it has to be developed, it has to be implemented, through national reform programmes. and finally, i would like to say that from the point of view of the so-called governance of the strategy, the european council will occupy an important place. (it has been there from the beginning, and it is an idea that has been repeatedly supported by the spanish presidency and by the president of the european council, president van rompuy, who has dealt with it in a very particular way.) the european council will play a very important role and role in the development of this strategy, in its orientation, together with the european commission. they will be the two key institutions for implementing this strategy which already has certain instruments which we are all willing to use.
president of the commission. − madam president, europe has been presented with a stark choice. we could take a beggar-thy-neighbour approach to the economic and financial crisis, a sauve qui peut attitude that would risk everything we have achieved over the last 60 years. or we could increase european cooperation in an effective way, using all the tools at our disposal. events over the last few months – continuing market volatility, the need for further financial market reforms and the need for a determined consolidation of public finances – have only increased the clarity of this choice. we need to stress the importance of the european dimension more than ever and we have an opportunity to do precisely that, with the objectives of europe 2020. i have been invited to talk to you now about europe 2020, but looking in isolation at this package of measures for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth does not really make sense, because one of the key conclusions we can draw from the crisis we are now living is that we have to work together, at all levels and in all areas, to fill the gaps in the framework for regulation and supervision of the financial markets, to restore macroeconomic stability and sound public finances, to launch the structural reforms that can steer europe to a path of sustainable growth and jobs. all these three volets matter equally – we need to get it right in all three if we are to meet our objectives. so all this demands a holistic approach, financial markets reforms, reinforced economic governance, europe 2020 for sustainable, inclusive, smart growth and leading global reforms through the g20, because many of these matters have external dimensions. we have to use all the levers at our disposal in an intelligent way, recognising that each one has an impact on all the others. let me touch briefly on most of them. i will not come back to the financial issues i just mentioned in the previous statement but let me mention the g20 to start with. the g20 has been instrumental in addressing the financial economic crisis, improving governance on a more global level. the european union can take a large share of the credit for giving the impetus to the g20 and feeding it with ideas. the commission has made a particular contribution to this, ensuring that the interests of all 27 member states are properly reflected in our work. we will work hard to ensure that the european union maintains its leadership at the toronto summit in june and the seoul summit in november. a key objective will be to get a clear message from the g20 on an exit strategy to support recovery – one where all major economies play their part. we have to address globally some of the imbalances that were at the origin of this crisis. we should also ensure that the burden of rebalancing global growth is shared by all g20 members. raising awareness of our strategy for europe 2020 and enhanced economic coordination in the eu in general, and in the euro area in particular, will be important in this context. it is important that europe presents a coordinated approach to the g20. another objective will be driving on with financial market reform. we need to keep up pressure on our international partners to deliver the timely and consistent implementation of the existing g20 commitments with a level playing field. over and above this, i believe the time is right for the g20 to send a strong signal on how the financial sector can contribute to the financing of bank repair. we should strive for a coordinated and strong approach. a global agreement on bank stability levies, linked to concrete resolution measures, would send a strong signal. as the imf recently suggested, this could be complemented by a tax on financial activities or profits. it is going to be an extremely difficult debate. i have to tell you, from the preparatory work going on with our partners in the g20, there are many who oppose this idea; nevertheless, i think we should pursue it. the european union message will certainly be strongest if we speak with one voice and if we can say that the european union has already done its own homework. that is why, before toronto, we should aim to have agreement on the key financial services regulation files that i mentioned earlier this afternoon. that will require flexibility and creative pragmatism from both this house and from the council. this brings me to the core of europe 2020 – now placed in its proper context as part of the holistic approach i talked about at the beginning. as you know, the main elements of the europe 2020 strategy were adopted by heads of state and government in march. we have had several occasions to debate them in this house. even before we made a proposal, the commission consulted you about this. we now have to flesh out the strategy in detail; the urgent need for action is clear to all. more than ever, as was highlighted in some of the statements made in the previous debate, one of the conclusions of this financial crisis and the problems of the euro area is the need to go ahead with structural reform in a coordinated and determined manner. better coordination of our economic policies is the centre-piece of europe 2020. even before this greek crisis we were suggesting and proposing more coordination of economic policies. this is clearly necessary in order to avoid future crises. it is essential if we want to exit the crisis successfully, restore growth, translate that growth into more and better jobs, and ultimately ensure a sustainable and inclusive future for europe. the five targets proposed by the commission are now largely consensual; numerical rates have already been fixed concerning targets on employment, r&d and the fight against climate change. the numerical target for the education objective – reducing school drop-out rates and increasing the share of the population with a tertiary or equivalent education – will be agreed by the european council in june 2010, taking into account the proposal of the commission. i am also strongly committed to getting a numerical target on the fight against poverty and social exclusion. we simply cannot accept the continuing scandal of 80 million people at risk of poverty in the european union. work is continuing in the council on this issue, and i will do all i can to convince the member states of the importance of this target, knowing that this house shares our determination. europe 2020 must be a balanced programme. of course, you cannot have social equity without a competitive market, but nor are we willing to accept a europe of economic efficiency without fairness. the national targets will enable a better and more efficient monitoring of the progress of the member states, to ensure that we achieve the objectives set at eu level. member states are in the process of setting these national targets, in cooperation with the commission. the targets, i hope, will be agreed at the june european council, so that implementation can start immediately after. the commission issued a proposal on the integrated guidelines last week. they reflect the priorities of the europe 2020 strategy. the number of guidelines is more limited than last time – now we have 10 as opposed to 24 – which will encourage ownership of the instrument by all the different actors. i think this is progress. the june european council should give political endorsement to the principles behind these integrated guidelines, but, of course, they will only be adopted after we have discussed them with you – the european parliament – which i hope can be as soon as possible. the europe 2020 strategy is not just inspirational, a list of objectives, it is not just a vision – it is a reform programme. action will be taken at european level, but equally important is the fact that reforms will have to be made in each of our 27 member states, in full respect of the principle of subsidiarity. we will make clear what has to be done at european level and what has to be at national level. implementation will be key, as was said by the distinguished representative of the council, mr lópez garrido, there is now a much stronger awareness at member state level of the need for reinforcing european governance. i hope that the member states have learned with some of the shortcomings of the lisbon strategy where, in fact, many, if not all, of the objectives were good and in the right direction but there was not, let us be frank, enough sense of ownership and not enough muscle in the implementation of the programmes. that is why we need to close this delivery gap that prevailed under the lisbon strategy. for that, you have a crucial role to play in ensuring the successful implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. you, the european parliament – apart from your role as a co-legislator – can also very effectively mobilise citizens and also – why not? – the national parliaments. what is critically important is the kind of relations, if i may say this to you, that the european parliament establishes with national parliaments. so that we are sure that these reforms are seen not only as the reforms ‘they’ make in brussels, or sometimes in strasbourg, but that we make at all levels in european society. the sense of urgency, the need for reforms must be shared by all key socioeconomic and political players; at all levels of government but also by social partners. i believe it is very important and i welcome all the announcements made by prime minister zapatero regarding the need to involve these social partners. then we must ensure stronger, joined-up governance by tying all our coordination instruments together: europe 2020 and stability and growth pact reporting and evaluation, carried out simultaneously, to bring the means and aims together; input from the european systemic risk board to ensure overall financial stability; structural reforms; measures to increase competitiveness; macroeconomic developments – all coming together to get us out of the crisis and firmly on the road to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. if we want to be serious about economic governance, that is the only way to do it. we cannot speak of serious economic governance at european level and separate the macroeconomics from the microeconomics, separate the internal from the external. so we need the member states and the european institutions to look at these matters in a holistic approach and putting all those instruments together – that is the only way to instil some confidence as well in our strategy. i spoke of a stark choice at the beginning of this speech, and the commission knows which paths it wants to take. i am confident this house shares that choice – a choice of determination, a choice for europe – and i count on your input as we continue our work.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i think that president barroso has today one of the most difficult roles, one of the most difficult jobs in the european union, to play. he has to divide his time between convincing the left and the right, the people who have the best answers to the toughest problems. president barroso must be skilled at navigating between these proposals. i think the best one is the commission's proposal for 2020. i am surprised at the proposals that have been put forward in this chamber that the solution to the present, very difficult situation is to repeat our mistakes. i want to say that i spent 18 years of my life in a country that was called the people's republic of poland, where there was a ministry of internal trade and empty shelves in the shops. there was a department of internal trade, but there was no internal trade. today, for 20 years, praise the lord, we do not have a ministry of internal trade in poland and we have internal trade. i want to tell you that the recipe for the current crisis is certainly not more regulation or more taxes and more intervention. i'm not one of those free-market fanatics, of course. i think the role of the state is to correct market mechanisms, but it has to be used very carefully. if we want to speak honestly about development in europe, let us remember how we voted in the last term on the services directive. let's remember what happened to the house's service directive. without the full flow of people, services and capital, europe will not be able to compete effectively with the other continents of the world. today we are told that we cannot compete with other areas of political and economic integration, but we are the ones who are pushing entrepreneurs from our continent to other places by excessive regulation, by an excessive burden on entrepreneurship in europe. so let us ask ourselves what more we can do to support this strategy, because there is no other, and to get out of the crisis, of course we must. there is no doubt that we must also support greece. for us, the poles i represent here, the word "solidarity" has a great significance. that's why we must show our solidarity with greece today. i want to stress once again that we must do everything possible to help europe recover from the economic crisis, which is not only a problem for millions of families, but also a problem of faith in our future. i have faith in the future of europe. i believe in our success.
mr. chairman, please! the europe 2020 strategy under discussion has an ideological dimension. it sets out a number of ambitious goals, such as increasing the working age population, producing higher education diplomas for 40% of eu citizens, and increasing investment in innovation. and what's interesting is that there's no sanctions on countries that don't follow through on these beautiful ideas. it seems that the authors of the strategy do not take into account the serious crisis in greece, and soon perhaps in spain and portugal, which could lead not only to the break-up of the euro zone, but also to the erosion of the european union. at such a dramatic moment for europe, recommendations are consistently made to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 30%, for example, which will suffocate the economies of central and eastern european countries, including poland. these countries may also be affected by the narrowing of the impact of cohesion policy. there are many indications that the utopian socialist project 2020 will share the fate of the lisbon strategy. i just hope he doesn't do any more damage in the meantime.
mr president, for any strategy to be effective, creating strong links between its objectives and available policy tools is, in my view, essential, and i see four main policy tools as delivery mechanisms for the eu 2020 strategy. firstly, the most important is internal market regulation that stimulates competition and economic dynamism and recognises social obligations that result from economic integration; and on that point i would like to strongly support what malcolm harbour said. secondly, this is capital investment in transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructures. we need capital investment on an unprecedented scale. both public and private financing must therefore be mobilised; in particular public/private partnerships must be strongly promoted and european financial institutions must be strengthened to overcome growth funding barriers generated by deficit and debt buyers of national budgets. thirdly, this is public expenditure through the european budget. as the eu’s objectives are primarily horizontal and not sectorial, eu budget expenditure should be based on an integrated approach to development, combined with strengthened financial and engineering instruments, and promote opening of our economies to global competition. fourthly, this is the coordination of national budget expenditures in priority areas through the open method of coordination. however, the soft mechanisms of this method – even if improved – can unfortunately take us only some way towards the agreed objectives of eu 2020; hence it can only be a supporting tool. european coordination must be focused on areas where genuine european value added exists or can develop, and where it will not undermine competition. available policy tools must be used in a way guaranteeing that the trap of a strong interventionist growth model driven by traditional sectorial industrial policy is avoided. this could undermine investment and business attractiveness of europe, reducing its growth potential. eu 2020 must be a growth and jobs strategy because there is no other option.
mr. chairman, please! the eu economy is still the strongest, but this eldorado does not have to last forever. the crisis and the tragic events in greece have shown us that we must learn from the ambitious europe 2020 strategy today. unlike the lisbon strategy, we need courage and consistency in implementing it. it is up to us to give future generations the chance to live in a europe that is cohesive and prosperous or one that is gripped by crisis. i wanted to say that today 30% of europeans have no vocational qualifications. hence the ambitious plans for education: reducing the number of early school leavers to 10%, and reaching 16 million people with high qualifications. so my appeal is to tackle the great challenges of education today with real dedication and speed. i call for coherent and very consistent action by all the eu institutions and member states.
in writing. in the debate on strategy 2020, we cannot forget the important and vital issue of transport. the transport sector generates around 10% of the eu's gdp and creates over 10 million jobs. it also plays an important role in the context of the creation of the european internal market and the right to free movement of persons and goods. in my view, the question of rail transport development should be tackled decisively and quickly. i believe that by 2020 we will be able to build up a network of trans-european rail corridors. i believe that from 2014 all new rolling stock and new railway connections should be equipped with ertms-compatible systems.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the effects of the signing of the european union's accession agreement to the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms appear to be limited, as the convention has long been accepted as the benchmark for the protection of human rights in europe. this is the status it has acquired both in european law and in the sectoral policies of the individual european union countries. however, it is also worth pointing out some problems that may arise from the competition between the european court of justice and the european court of human rights in the area of jurisdiction that may arise. so the matter should be thought through very carefully so that later on no mistakes are made from which one must retract. moreover, it is to be expected that the case-law of the european court of justice, and the interpretation of eu law by it, will be subject to the assessment of the european court of human rights. the european court of human rights will thus be given substantial powers over the eu institutions. in such a situation, all the legal consequences of such a decision should be considered so as not to act hastily. the question of reforming the way the two important european courts operate should also be considered.
mr. chairman, please! the european union is built on respect for human rights. it's really one of the most beautiful things about this institution. i just feel like we're building these human rights for our own citizens. mr. beňová and mr. wikström have already spoken about this. but i think we are neglecting what mrs hautala was talking about, which is the attempt to spread human rights abroad. i believe that the european union is lacking in commitment to this problem. i hope that the european union will join the convention, because it will give us the chance to achieve some degree of coherence, of coherence in the system of law and human rights protection in the european union or in the region. it is good to remember that when creating new laws, one should not restrict new freedoms. this is, of course, a subject for philosophers and legal theorists, but this tension between rights and freedoms exists. it is worthwhile, therefore, for legislators and later judges who enforce the law to be aware of this.
mr president, first of all let me thank both our rapporteurs – kinga gál and ramón jáuregui atondo – and also the commission and the presidency. muchas gracias por el trabajo tan duro, pero necesario, realizado. when we were talking about the eu’s accession to the european convention on human rights – and we have been talking about it in the european union for the past 10 years, i think – there were quite a lot of worries that there would be competition between the european court of human rights and the european court of justice, that we would have problems when it came to jurisdiction, that the autonomy of the european court of justice might be questioned. but i think that what we have achieved in our work is that we are coming to a situation in which those two courts can be complementary. we were trying to do everything to avoid hierarchical thinking, but actually we have cross-fertilisation between those two systems of human rights protection. in the light of recent trends, where the ecj follows the case-law of the strasbourg court and vice versa, i think that the two systems coexist and actually there is no competition, and most of those fears have been dissipated. in the recent bosphorus judgment that we all know very well, the european court of human rights said that there was no need to re-examine the case because the eu, as such, offers an adequate level of protection of human rights. so then the question arises: why do we need accession to the convention? this question has been posed by our colleagues here and, yes, we do need it. why do we need it? not only because of the symbolic meaning, which is important, but because the whole system of protecting human rights in the european union will gain credibility in the eyes of citizens who will enjoy the protection from the actions of the eu, not only of the member states as is the case now. when there is no effective judicial review either at national or at community level – when, for example, the applicant is denied standing or the eu body concerned cannot be sued, those are the situations where we will have added value. we are acceding to the convention for the sake of greater coherence of the system of human rights protection, not to undermine the credibility of that system. we need loyalty, and that is why we postulate that inter-state applications should not be brought concerning an alleged failure of compliance when the act falls within the scope of union law. we postulate this and we should do our utmost to put it into law. finally, i would like to thank very much the commission for setting up a dg on human rights. i remember as a student reading joseph weiler’s articles about the protection of human rights. he came to the conclusion that you can do whatever you like in terms of applying for and acceding to the convention on human rights, but if there is no implementation and follow-up in the commission then it will be fruitless. so finally, thanks to you, we have it. hopefully we will go forward and have better protection of human rights in the european union than we have now.
the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms is one of the foundations of the european axiology that defends the rights of the individual, the rights of man. it was the foundation of the european union in terms of values. for many years, the european court of human rights has done a good job of defending the weak, defending the oppressed. however, recent rulings have raised questions about the court's understanding of the principle of individual liberty. last year, a wave of discussion and opposition swept through europe over a ruling that banned the display of crosses in public. i believe that the european union, by virtue of the treaty of lisbon, should at the same time, as a party to this convention, initiate a discussion and debate in the direction of a profound reflection so that such distortions of individual freedom and misunderstandings of human rights do not occur in the future.
mr. chairman, please! the european parliament has repeatedly adopted resolutions condemning violations of human rights and freedoms in various parts of the world. but it must be said that as the european union we cannot deal with the obvious violations of these fundamental rights in the member states of the european union. i wanted to give you a very current example. well, recently the lithuanian ethics committee punished the member of the european parliament, mr tomaševski, the leader of the polish minority, for asking president barroso a question about respect for minority rights. this is a curious, if not scandalous, situation. my question is this: can accession to the framework convention change anything? the european union should set standards on these issues that are much higher than those adopted in the framework convention. it is time that such discrimination does not take place in the member states of the european union.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! the accession of the european union to the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms has long been a priority on the agenda of the european parliament. the lisbon treaty, providing a legal basis for this, allows negotiations to begin. this is a very important step towards enabling the eu citizens to exercise their fundamental rights more effectively. however, we must be aware that there is still a lot of work to be done before the union becomes a party to the convention. there are many legal questions that will need to be answered during the negotiations. these include: should the union only accede to the convention itself or become a party to the protocols as well? how can the question of the union's representation in the council of europe bodies be resolved? and, most importantly, how to arrange the relationship between the two courts: the court of justice in luxembourg and the court of human rights in strasbourg? it is important to remember that a fundamental principle of the eu legal system is that the ets has exclusive competence to interpret eu law. i am pleased that the newly constituted commission has made accession to the convention one of its priorities in preparing a recommendation for negotiation. the key now is for member states to agree on the basic issues so that the negotiations can run smoothly.
in writing. europe still lacks an effective system for protecting human rights. the european convention on human rights (echr) is the most important instrument for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in europe. it is of particular importance to the citizens of my country, whose right-wing government has been deprived of the protection of the fundamental rights guaranteed by the eu's common agricultural policy. the strasbourg court, which is the guardian of the convention, has dealt with over 100 000 cases since its creation. each year, more and more of them arrive. in 2009, almost 60 000 cases were brought before the court, an increase of 20% compared with 2008. member states shall not be in a hurry to recognise the judgments of the court. if they did it quickly and efficiently, there would be far fewer complaints. the accession of the union to the echr will provide an additional impetus for the efficient implementation of the case-law of the court, which safeguards the rights of citizens and enables them to seek justice. the court will monitor the conformity of legal acts with the text of the convention. the case-law of the court should therefore also be reflected in union policy. perhaps this will help the polish right to understand, among other things, that the state should ensure religious neutrality in state educational institutions, where attendance at lessons is required regardless of religion (from the court's judgment in lautsi v. italy).
mr. chairman, please! the european union needs to coordinate research and innovation activities and pool investments to stimulate the development of fuel technologies in electric vehicles. the european market will have to accelerate the construction of battery charging infrastructure and provide consumers with financial incentives to buy electric cars. it is necessary to standardise vehicles and ensure their universal operability on the european market. the spanish presidency has clearly suggested in its priorities, and especially at the san sebastian meeting in february this year, the need to develop a unified position both in europe and in the world. i hope that european manufacturers will contribute to the achievement of the 2020 strategy by creating modern solutions for the connection of electric vehicles to smart electricity grids. however, we must not forget that the changes we are facing must be made in a sustainable way, with appropriate harmonization, using energy sources known in the automotive industry, such as propane, butane or natural gas, the use of which has an ecological factor in its denominator. electric cars and their importance for the further decarbonisation process and efficiency must be carefully analysed in terms of carbon emissions.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. in the context of today's debate, i would like to draw attention to a new type of threat that has emerged with the proliferation of electric and hybrid vehicles. in short, in urban conditions, these vehicles are too quiet. paradoxically, what might be considered a benefit of low noise levels can become a real danger for children, the elderly and, above all, the blind. so today, it is time to consider how to avoid accidents involving hybrid cars whose only sound is the rubber on the road. so we should answer the following questions as soon as possible: should these cars make noise, and if so, what kind of noise and how loud? shouldn't manufacturers be required to design and build in-house warning systems?
mr. chairman, please! we have raised many times in this house the issue of discrimination against the polish minority in lithuania, where poles living there are not allowed to register their names in the original version, classes with polish language teaching are being abolished, the rightful owners of land seized in soviet times are not returned simply because they are poles. recently, the lithuanian ethics committee chastised mep tomaševski, the leader of the polish minority, for asking president barroso here in parliament a question about respect for minority rights in lithuania. these outrageous acts are escalating. a few days ago, the lithuanian language inspectorate imposed another heavy financial penalty on the head of the local government in solecznik for using signs in two languages. it's an area populated 80% by poles. mr. chairman, please! it is high time that the european parliament put an end to these scandalous actions of the lithuanian government. we are proud that human rights are the foundation of the union. it is a poor foundation if we cannot enforce these rights from the member states.
mr. chairman, please! there is a flourishing undercover human trafficking in poland. this is because of the absolute priority of liberal, anti-human market law. in recent years, there have been numerous sales of apartments and entire factory buildings along with tenants as part of the privatization of assets left over from people's poland. these tenants are mostly elderly and sick people who have not been given any opportunity to buy in advance. plagued by skyrocketing rents, those who get into debt are often evicted to the brink. basic human rights are being violated. the appropriate legal and implementing instruments are needed to enable the authorities of the member states of the european union to act effectively in ensuring the protection of tenants of privatised industrial housing. urgent public assistance is also needed for the victims of anti-humanitarian privatisation.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. every new car is made up of 80% parts produced by independent manufacturers. on the other hand, it is the car manufacturers that have the huge trade advantage over the parts manufacturers and the independent repair shops. we must do everything we can today to ensure that the european car market does not become an oligopoly again. our citizens must be guaranteed the right to choose and auto parts, and independent factories. guarantees of access to technical information are required. we need to counter manufacturers' abuse of warranties. the authorised plants must also have the right to purchase parts from independent producers and to purchase tools and equipment for their own plants. without a clear guarantee in the new regulation, the fundamental right of choice for european customers will remain a fiction.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in taking part in today's debate on the block exemption regulation in the automotive sector, i would like to recall that in 2009 the european commission published a communication on 'the future structure of competition law applicable to the motor vehicle sector' in which it sets out a legal strategy for motor vehicle distribution and after-sales services following the expiry of regulation (ec) no 1400/2002. the problem of the appropriate response by the competition authorities is therefore now emerging, covering access to technical information, spare parts, authorised workshops and the abuse of guarantees. i ask therefore whether the commission is confident that the solution it has adopted will ensure comprehensive protection of competition in the sector.
in writing. the motor vehicles block exemption regulation is a very important document for the european union, as it directly affects over 3.5 million people employed in the automotive sector in europe, both in the primary and secondary markets. this regulation introduced favourable conditions for the operation of the automotive market which strengthened competition. it has created new jobs and enabled the market to develop efficiently and sustainably, in the interests of consumers, large car companies and independent operators alike. it is also very important that it provides european consumers with a wide access to services and goods on the automotive market. this document is of particular importance for independent car repairers who need access to technical information to compete effectively with authorised repairers and for independent car parts manufacturers. i was all the more pleased to learn that the european commission had decided to extend this regulation. in its resolution b7 0245/2010 the european parliament calls on the commission to clarify the issues raised by me in my written question to the commission of 16 april this year, such as access to technical information for independent manufacturers, or the clarification of the concepts of 'comparable parts', 'quality parts', 'original parts' and 'technical information'. the addressees of the mvber, by virtue of their non-trivial role in the economy, need clear and precisely worded legal acts.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr tamás deutsch, for his very good work. i think it's a very ambitious goal to increase the volume by the amount that the report says. i think that, from the point of view of the european taxpayer, the european voter, the european investment pact is really only as important as a financial 'backstop' for small and medium-sized enterprises. and here we must appreciate the increase in financial commitment, which is quite significant in this area. support for this sector is particularly valuable in times of crisis. as a representative of central and eastern europe, as a pole, i have to say that it is extremely important for us that this bank supports the transformation in our region of europe and that it equalises the divisions that have existed. i am also pleased that the bank is involved in a significant way in its relations with european funds. that's also indirectly relevant to us.
mr. chairman, please! the stability of ukraine is a natural objective of all eu countries, also because ukraine is one of our most important and largest partners. we are witnessing a crisis in ukraine. the stability of ukraine's budget will determine the country's social and political situation and future. the more we give aid and political support to ukraine, the more we have a right to expect ukrainian economic reforms towards a free market. the economic crisis in ukraine is not just a matter for this country, but also a matter for us all. today, in the difficult situation of ukraine, we see how much we can help. that is why i support macro-financial assistance to ukraine. i think that today it is necessary to say that it should be bigger, and that the bigger it is, the bigger and more ambitious our expectations for ukraine can be.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to join in this positive expression of thanks both to the president and to the european investment bank, and to my colleague mr deutsch, who has drawn up this report. in this debate, two objectives could be distinguished: first, development, and second, stabilization. and it doesn't matter in what order. in the european union, in the member states, it is above all a development towards cohesion. i would like to stress here in particular the role that can be played in financing the sme sector. we have already stated in the lisbon agenda that without the sme sector and without regional cooperation, this cannot be done. outside we have countries that are neighbours of the european union, the eastern partnership countries, where without the help of the european investment bank - mr kowal also said this, mrs andrikienė also said this - it is not possible... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. in 2008, the european investment bank celebrated its 50th anniversary. during this period, it has made a major contribution to the development of integration, sustainable and sustainable development, economic and social cohesion by supporting investment projects in europe, lending to the public and private sectors, and using financial markets and own funds. 2008 also marked the beginning of the global financial and economic crisis that devastated the european economy. in a context of limited liquidity, tightened bank lending and capital constraints, the eib has been a lifeline for many distressed investments and projects. in response to the crisis, the eib significantly increased its lending to enterprises in 2008. this was particularly important for the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, which was particularly hard hit by the crisis. the eib has often been the last resort when it came to freezing the flow of funds from distressed commercial banks. the positive role of the eib in times of crisis is undeniable. however, it is also worth considering how the bank can make even better use of its resources. the best way to do this is to simplify the complex bureaucracy and create clear procedures.
mr. chairman, please! nigeria is an important country, very important. that's why we're dealing with what happened on march 7 near the town of jos. the problem in central nigeria is not just that christians are dying because muslims were killed in january of this year. in the case of nigeria, there are many kinds of divisions that overlap with religious divisions, and we talked about some of these divisions: economic, ethnic, social. but there are also two other kinds of divisions: historical (because christians in these areas are considered local, and muslims are considered foreign, even though they have lived there for two or three generations), and even political differences - christians generally support the ruling people's democratic party, and muslims generally support the opposition all nigeria people's party. so there are a lot of differences, and we can't treat these events as a clear religious persecution. nigeria's constitution guarantees religious freedom: freedom of religion, freedom of worship, and the right to change religion. you may think it's naive of me to refer to the nigerian constitution, but i would like to remind you that the values that are derived from the oldest written constitution, the american constitution, and the oldest written constitution in europe, the polish constitution, those values are still relevant and alive. we therefore call on the federal government of nigeria, the governors and the local authorities to address this issue not only in the name of our values, but in the name of the values and principles enshrined in their own constitution. i think it's important to refer to their own documents.
mr. chairman, please! the images that we have seen in various television programs not so long ago were shocking. the number of people murdered in and around jos was shocking. as our colleague mario mauro has said, there is no justification for violence, which is itself evil. we, as the european community, as members of the european parliament, cannot put this on the agenda. i therefore strongly support this resolution. whatever the causes of the conflict, and whatever the background to the violence, we want to respond to ensure that human rights and civil liberties are respected in nigeria, which is close to us. i also want to take this opportunity to offer my condolences to the nigerian people on the death of the president.
in writing. if the right to self-determination, that is to say, the respect of the principles and values of one's own conscience, is to be the supreme value in the european union, then all signs of intolerance and hatred, even those leading to murder and massacre on the basis of race, ethnicity or religion, should be met with our immediate and unequivocal condemnation. but this condemnation should not be limited to words, it should be a response that will guarantee peaceful coexistence in the future.
in writing. mr president, i would like to begin by expressing my deep sorrow at the reports of the riots in jos, nigeria, in january and march, in which hundreds of christians and muslims were killed. it is worth remembering that such terrible events in jos have happened before. the fighting between the two religions has been going on since 2001. the fact that the state of tension, which from time to time turns into open clashes, has been going on for a decade is a confirmation of the important role the state has to play as an animator of the reconciliation processes. the deep divisions we're seeing here are a very complicated background to the conflict. the difference between nigerian christians and nigerian muslims is not just a religious one; this fundamental division is superimposed by a historical one, because in a region where there is a riot, christians are seen as locals and muslims as foreigners. these two divisions translate into christian and muslim support for other political groups, which is a kind of extension of the conflict. however, in the end, the source of the conflict is religious differences and the inability or inability of the authorities to arrange a peaceful coexistence between the two groups. the eu-nigeria ministerial forum is due to take place this autumn, and i believe that this issue should be on the agenda. in addition, the commission should make every effort to use the diplomatic instruments at its disposal to improve the situation in nigeria.
mr. chairman, please! the amendment is to make the issues of freedom of thought, conscience, religion and belief the subject of dialogue between the european union and nigeria, in the context of and that is added the words of political dialogue under the cotonou agreement.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to express my satisfaction at having been able to vote in favour of extending the scope of the car spare parts regulation, in terms of access to both certified and non-certified parts by car users. we did it at the last minute, but we went out to meet our citizens. we guarantee good quality parts at a reasonable price.
mr vice president, excellencies, dear colleagues, dear friends, it is a great privilege for me to welcome to the european parliament mr joseph biden, the 47th vice president of the united states. (applause) vice president biden has been a key figure in american politics and a friend to colleagues in this chamber for many years. he was first elected to the us senate in 1972, serving as one of the youngest senators in his country’s history. he was elected six times before becoming vice president of the united states in november 2008. a former chairman of the senate foreign relations committee and the senate judiciary committee, he is known to speak his mind, sometimes to defend causes which are far from popular at the time. he leads opinion; he does not follow opinion. this is one reason why your speech at the european parliament today, mr vice president, is so important, so crucial, for all of us. let me thank you once again for the very warm invitation and the very constructive and fruitful discussions last wednesday in washington. dear colleagues, in today’s multilateral, multipolar world, europe and america can and should work together in a partnership for global stability and the enlightened values in which we believe. vice president biden’s visit to the european union today demonstrates this commitment. without a strong and effective transatlantic partnership as equal partners – the united states and the european union – we cannot find lasting solutions to the many challenges we face: climate change, energy security, the economic crisis still hitting all of us, terrorism, or promoting human rights, defending free trade and improving global governance. colleagues, 25 years ago, almost to the day, president ronald reagan addressed this parliament, on 8 may 1985. this was the last and so far the only time that a us president has spoken to the democratically elected representatives of the people of europe. your presence in this chamber today, mr vice president, is a symbol of the renewal of that dialogue at the highest level between our two continents. here in europe we have a new treaty, which gives us in the european parliament new strength and the possibility to act and which is so important for the whole of the european union. in america, after one year under president obama’s leadership, there is new hope for the world. mr vice president, the timing of your address could not be better. mr vice president, it is a great pleasure to welcome you here this afternoon to europe’s parliament. the floor is yours. (applause)
vice president of the united states of america. – mr president, thank you for that welcome. it was a delight to have you in washington and at the white house, and it is a great honour – and, i might add, a privilege – to be able to address such an esteemed body. i served in a parliament that only had 435 members total; this is even a greater honour. i remember president reagan’s speech here in 1985, and to quote an irish poet – william butler yeats – speaking of his ireland, in a poem called easter sunday 1916 he said: ‘all’s changed, changed utterly; a terrible beauty has been born’. much has changed since 1985, much has changed, and a terrible beauty has been born. as you already know, ladies and gentlemen, not only am i pleased to be back here in brussels for the second time as vice president, as you probably know, some american politicians and american journalists refer to washington dc as the capital of the free world. but it seems to me that in this great city, which boasts one thousand years of history and which serves as the capital of belgium, the home of the european union and the headquarters for nato, this city has its own legitimate claim to that title. as a lawmaker for more than 36 years in our parliament, i feel particularly honoured to address the european parliament. president obama and i were the first running mates in the last 50 years in america to make it to the white house from our legislative bodies, so we both come to our executive jobs with a deep appreciation for the work you do here in the bastion of european democracy. together with my former colleagues in the united states congress, you and i represent more than 800 million people. stop and think about that for a moment. two elected bodies that shape the laws for almost one eighth of the planet’s population: that is truly remarkable. now, under the lisbon treaty, you have taken on more powers and a broader responsibility that comes with that increased influence, and we welcome it. we welcome that because we, the united states, need strong allies and alliances to help us tackle the problems of the 21st century, many which are the same – but so many are different – than the last century. let me state it as plainly as i can. the obama/biden administration has no doubt about the need for, and strongly supports, a vibrant european union. we believe it is absolutely essential to american prosperity and long-term security. so have no doubt about that. when i chaired the united states senate foreign relations committee for all those years, i had the opportunity to meet many european lawmakers from the national legislative bodies, including some of you who are in this room today. so i appreciate, after all those years, what a consequential step it has been to build the only multinational parliament in the world elected by universal suffrage. so much has changed. i am pleased that, through the transatlantic legislative dialogue, you are building a strong relationship with the united states congress, and i hope that the office you opened in washington last month is going to enhance those ties. folks, 65 years ago this week, less than 200 km south of here, nazi leaders signed an unconditional surrender that brought an end to the second world war in europe. the next day, celebrations erupted in times square and piccadilly circus; cheering crowds danced along the champs-elysées and the town squares throughout the allied world. here in brussels, at a thanksgiving service, churchgoers sang the national anthems of britain, belgium and the united states. on that joyous day, 8 may 1945, this continent lay in ruins, ravaged twice by total wars in less than 30 years. at that moment, a peaceful united europe, a european parliament, must have seemed like a fantasy to anyone alive. yet, through the will of your fellow citizens and statesmen like paul-henri spaak, for whom this great hall is named, and robert schuman and jean monnet, and the visions that gave birth to a parliament and earned him the presidential medal of freedom from president lyndon johnson, here we are: assembled in this hall. here you are. what began as a simple pact among a half a dozen nations to create a common market for coal and steel grew into an economic and political powerhouse. a community dedicated to free thought, free movement and free enterprise. a europe that one historian has called ‘not so much a place but an idea’. i am here to reaffirm that president obama and i believe in this idea, and in a better world and a better europe it has already helped to bring about. a europe where all member states benefit by negotiating trade agreements and fighting environmental degradation with one unified voice; a europe that bolsters the cultural and political values that my country shares with all of you. a europe that is whole, a europe that is free and a europe that is at peace. (applause)as president obama said in prague a little more than a year ago, a strong europe makes a stronger partner for the united states – and we need strong partners. that is why we will do everything we can to support this great endeavour of yours. because the past 65 years have shown that, when americans and europeans devote their energies to common purpose, there is almost nothing we are unable to accomplish. together, through the marshall plan, we rebuilt europe and made perhaps the greatest investment in human history. together we built the world’s most enduring security alliance, nato, and a military and political force that tied america and europe and brought us even closer in the ensuing decades. together we established the greatest commercial relationship in the world’s history, comprising about 40% of global trade and helping usher in an era of unprecedented prosperity and technological innovation. together we have provided relief and hope for those suffering humanitarian catastrophes in more places than i can mention, from the western balkans to the congo, to our ongoing work in haiti today. to those sceptics who, in spite of all these accomplishments, continue to question the state of transatlantic relationships or my country’s attitude toward a united europe, my answer is this: even if the united states and the nations all of you represent were not united by shared values and common heritage of many millions of our citizens, myself included, our global interests alone would inexorably bind us together. the relationship between my country and europe is today as strong and as important to all of us as it has ever been. this century has unleashed new challenges, no less dangerous than those that came before, in the 20th century, and together – together – we are taking them on, one by one. they are difficult; there will be disagreement, but we are taking them on jointly. climate change: one of the greatest threats our planet faces. the united states and europe are working to ensure that all countries, and especially the major economies, are contributing to a global solution. we all looked to, and we did take, a major step forward in copenhagen. now we have to carry out those emission cuts, the financing and the transparency called for in that accord, and we must help the most vulnerable nations, from the arctic north to the pacific islands, that are the harbingers of this looming crisis. across the troubled landscape of afghanistan and pakistan, we are working together to disrupt, dismantle and defeat al-qa’ida and the taliban fighters and to train an afghan army and police force so that their government can eventually protect its own people and not be a threat to its neighbours. in order to build afghanistan’s governing capacity, the united states, the european union and its member nations are deploying significant financial resources and civilian resources as well. while sustaining these important missions has not always been popular, you all know – as i do – it is required. as leaders we have an obligation to make the case to our populations that this is necessary for our collective security – although, believe me, as a politician who has stood for office for the last 38 years, i understand it is not easy. i assure you it is no more popular in my country than it is in any of one of yours. that is also why the united states and europe are standing side by side to prevent iran from acquiring nuclear weapons: a development that would endanger the citizens and menace its neighbours, including some of our closest allies. together we embarked on an unprecedented path of engagement with the iranian leaders and, ladies and gentlemen,(applause)despite what some sceptics thought, the president meant what he said: that we will reach out our hand to any party that will unclench their fist. at the outset of this administration, president obama stated that we are prepared to deal with iran on the basis of mutual interest and mutual respect. with our allies we have made clear to iran’s leaders how they can begin to rebuild confidence within the international community, including by granting access to their previously undeclared enrichment facilities and exchanging low-enriched uranium for fuel to power a research reactor. but, as the world has now watched and seen, iranian leaders spurned our collective good faith efforts and continue to take actions that threaten regional stability. let me state it flatly: iran’s nuclear programme violates its obligations under the nuclear non-proliferation treaty and risks sparking a nuclear arms race in the middle east. wouldn’t it be ironic – wouldn’t it be ironic – as the iron curtain fell and the mutual threats of mutually assured destruction diminished among the superpowers, that a new arms race would emerge in some of the most unstable parts of the world. that would be an irony that our children, our grandchildren and great-grandchildren would not forgive us, in my view, for allowing to come to pass. in addition, the iranian leadership supports terrorism organisations, and that support continues unabated, and it continues unconscionably to persecute those of its citizens who peacefully take to the streets in a quest for justice: a betrayal of the duty of all governments in terms of what they owe their citizens. tehran faces a stark choice: abide by international rules and rejoin the community of responsible nations – which we hope for – or face further consequences and increasing isolation. in the face of the threat iran poses, we are committed to the security of our allies. that is why we deployed the phased adaptive missile defence programme: to deter and defend against missile attacks on this continent. (applause) ladies and gentlemen, we are also working together inside nato to prepare for a range of future security threats, including energy security and cyber-security, and we continue to support close security cooperation between nato and the eu. last year the united states and europe acted quickly and decisively when the world was reeling from a financial crisis more dire than any since the great depression. in doing so, collectively we helped prevent what people were predicting: the total collapse of the world economy. today president obama and i are closely following the economic and financial crisis in greece and the european union’s efforts to deal with it. we welcome the support package that europe is considering in conjunction with the international monetary fund, and we will be supportive – both directly and through the imf – of your efforts as you rescue greece. these examples, and many others i could have mentioned, show why europe continues not just to be america’s largest trading partner but our most important ally. ladies and gentlemen, our predecessors came together more than six decades ago this week to begin to build institutions designed to ensure that the 20th century’s darkest chapters would not be repeated in the remainder of that century or in the 21st century. those institutions – this institution – have been a great success, but now we have to set our sights on the challenges of this new century i referenced in the beginning. the world has changed. it has changed utterly. a terrible beauty has been born. perhaps the most complex threat we face today is that posed to our own citizens by non-state actors and violent extremists, particularly if – god forbid – those violent extremists were able to get their hands on any weapons of mass destruction. the scourge has no respect for borders – none. no single nation, no matter how strong or how wealthy, how organised or how capable, can meet this threat alone. it can only be successfully contained if we make common cause, and that is precisely what we must do. the new powers granted this parliament in the lisbon treaty gave you a greater role in that struggle and a greater imperative to govern responsibly. the u.s. government and this parliament have struggled over how best to protect citizens without yielding the foundational rights on which all of our societies are built. i am absolutely confident that we must – and can – both protect our citizens and preserve our liberties. since taking office last year, president obama and i have been guided by our constitution’s imperative to seek more perfect union. toward that end, one of our first official actions was to end the interrogation practices that produced few results and that we could not, in good conscience, continue. (applause)we ordered the closure of the detention centre at guantánamo bay, which had become a symbol of injustice and a rallying cry for terrorists. (applause)and we appreciate the support – difficult as it has been for you to take – that so many of you have provided in this effort. we did these things because, like you, president obama and i reject the false choice between safety and our ideals. we believe that upholding our principles only makes us stronger and that compromising them actually undermines our effort in the broader struggle against violent extremism. for what is their purpose? their purpose is to change what we value – change how we conduct ourselves. eight days after the september 11 attack, i told a group of thousands of university students in my country that they cannot allow the tragedy of 9/11 to end our way of life, because that is exactly what the terrorists sought. i also told them that america cannot prevail in this new struggle by acting alone. those words not only fit the tenor of that time, but i think they have proven to be true – and they are no less true today. i do not need to tell this audience about europe’s proud tradition of protecting citizens from government invasion of their privacy – a commitment grounded in respect for the inherent dignity of all people. we call them inalienable rights. we wrote them into our constitution, and america’s commitment to privacy is also profound – as profound as yours. our constitution’s fourth amendment protects individuals against unreasonable search and seizures by the state, which one of our most famous jurists once dubbed ‘the right to be let alone’. the supreme court of the united states has made clear that privacy is a constitutionally protected and fundamental right. like the eu, the supreme court has characterised this right as a matter of personal dignity. on a personal level, i have, for 36 years of my career, defended privacy rights. in the united states senate every year, organisations rate those most committed to civil liberties, and every year i – and later, president obama – characterise one of those four people picked. the reason i bother to tell you this is not about me but about the commitment of our administration to individual rights. to change now would make a lie of everything i have said i stood for in my country for the past 37 years. when i led the senate judiciary committee, which is responsible for confirming the president’s judicial nominees, as i said, i was consistently ranked among the staunchest advocates of civil liberties, and i made it a priority to determine prospective judges’ views on privacy before deciding whether or not they could go on the court. president obama and i also believe that government’s primary, most fundamental and most solemn duty is to protect its citizens – the citizens it serves – as well as the rights they hold. president obama has said that keeping our country safe is the first thing he thinks about when he wakes up in the morning and the last thing he thinks about before he goes to bed at night. i suspect that is how every world leader looks at their role. indeed, no less than privacy, physical safety is also an inalienable right. a government that abdicates its duty to ensure the safety of its citizens violates their rights no less than a government that silences dissidents or imprisons accused criminals without trial. so folks, even as we gather today, our enemies are employing every tool they can muster to conduct new and devastating attacks like the ones that struck new york, london, madrid and many other places around the globe. to stop them we must use every legitimate tool available – law enforcement, military intelligence technology – that is consistent with our laws and our values. we are fighting on many fronts, from the brave men and women serving abroad in our militaries to the patient and tireless law enforcement professionals investigating complex and suspicious financial networks. just this week, our customs and border protection, using passenger information data, apprehended a suspect in the attempted bombing of new york’s times square as he sought to flee the country. it is vital that we maintain every capacity we have under the law to stop such attacks. for that reason, we believe that the terrorist finance tracking programme is essential to our security as well as to europe’s – it is presumptive of me to say. it has provided critical leads to counterterrorism investigations on both sides of the atlantic, disrupting plots and ultimately saving lives. it has built-in redundancies that ensure personal information is respected and used only for counterterrorism purposes. but i do not blame you for questioning it. we understand your concerns. as a consequence, we are working together to address them, and i am absolutely confident that we can succeed to both use the tool and guarantee privacy. it is important that we do so, and it is important that we do so as quickly as possible. as a former united states senator, i also know how hard it can be to make the hard choices required by global challenges while staying true to local values. all of you are going through that every time you vote in this parliament, i suspect. the longer we are without an agreement on the terrorist finance tracking programme, the greater the risk of a terrorist attack that could have been prevented. as leaders, we share responsibility to do everything we can within the law to protect the 800 million people we collectively serve. we have disagreed before, we will surely disagree again, but i am equally convinced that the united states and europe can meet the challenges of the 21st century – as we did in the 20th century – if we talk and listen to one another; if we are honest with one another. (applause) ladies and gentlemen, courage, winston churchill taught us, is what it takes to stand up and to speak. courage is also what it takes to sit down and listen. this afternoon i have done all the speaking. be assured that i, my government and my president are back in the business of listening to our allies. ladies and gentlemen, it is no accident that europe was my first overseas destination as vice president, and also the president’s. it is no accident that we have already returned several times since then. the united states needs europe, and i respectfully submit that europe needs the united states. we need each other more now than we ever have. (applause) so i view this week’s anniversary as providing a welcome opportunity to reaffirm the bond our peoples forged long ago in the fires of adversity. now, as then, in the pursuit of ideals and in the search for partners, europeans and americans look to each other before they look to anyone else. now, as then, we are honoured and grateful to be by your side in the struggles yet to come. so again, i am here to state unequivocally: president obama and joe biden strongly support a united, a free, an open europe. we strongly support what you are about here. we wish you god-speed, and may god bless you all and may god protect all of our troops. thank you very, very much. (applause)
mr vice president, thank you very much. it was a great basis for future cooperation and our future talks. as you said, listen and talk to each other. that is very important. i would like to thank you for repeating the most important words from last week: europe needs america. we remember the 20th century – the first world war, the second world war, the iron curtain – we were fighting side by side, achieving victory together, as democracies. as you added today, america needs europe. we will remember that. it is a good beginning to our partnership and cooperation. mr vice president, once again, thank you very much. (applause)
in writing. - i would like to reiterate, in full agreement with the author of the report, that in the vast majority of community countries new members have already been appointed in accordance with the rules in force. we are therefore awaiting the council's proposal to amend protocol no 36. this will allow additional meps to come to the ep as observers as soon as the amendment to the minutes has been approved and, once it has entered into force, our new colleagues to start work as full meps.
in writing. − the decision not to convene the convention was one of the most difficult decisions to make in the introduction of 18 new members to the parliament. but we are doing so out of respect for this instrument, which aims to give greater legitimacy to decisions affecting eu fundamental law. this is not a precedent for the future. all important matters concerning treaty changes, such as the electoral procedure, will still require the convention to be convened. i would like to thank inigo (the rapporteur) and the coordinators for making this decision. and it wasn't easy. we have a problem with the appointment of 18 new members because some countries have not provided for the procedure. but we decided that the most important principle is representation. this chamber should be balanced as soon as possible. we therefore call on the member states to complete this process as soon as possible, assuming at the same time that all members are elected by direct suffrage.
in writing. - as a co-author of the european parliament resolution on kyrgyzstan, i would like to thank my colleagues for voting in favour of this document today. particular attention should be paid to the intention of the transitional government to start work on constitutional reform and to quickly lay the foundations for the holding of democratic parliamentary elections. hence the call to the interim government to fulfil kyrgyzstan's international obligations and ensure a free and fair electoral process. we are following with concern the developments in kyrgyzstan, including with regard to securing the uninterrupted supply corridor for nato and other international forces involved in the mission in afghanistan. it is essential that the european union, including the european parliament, closely monitor the situation in kyrgyzstan, provide the necessary support and promote dialogue between all groups in kyrgyz society.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on kyrgyzstan because i believe that as a member of the delegation for central asia, i am obliged to give at least some support to a nation which has been in such a difficult situation in recent weeks. the resolution calls for an end to violence, dialogue between the parties to the conflict and respect for the rights to liberty, human rights and the rule of law, stressing the importance of a coherent and stable constitutional framework for ensuring democracy. i therefore believe that the international support programme should be implemented as soon as possible and that the eu should take a leading role in it.
in writing. - resolution rc-b7-0246/2010 of the european parliament of 6 may 2010 on the situation in kyrgyzstan is a common european voice in favour of kyrgyzstan and its authorities. the resolution on kyrgyzstan is an important signal from the european union and from europe as a whole. we should show both the citizens and the kyrgyz authorities, not just through such resolutions, that we support the strengthening of democracy and social development, the security of the population and sustainable growth. the european parliament must be the institution which supports all prospects of democratization and does not accept any lapses along the way. the changes in kyrgyzstan are the consequence of the past few years and the fleeting hopes of the tulip revolution. the electoral fraud and soft authoritarianism that has started to function in kyrgyzstan cannot and will not be tolerated. the only actions we can and will support are democratic actions, because they are the foundation of the european union. we cannot agree to any other solution. i hope that the resolution on kyrgyzstan is one of many things we will do. the whole of europe expects us to do so.
in writing. − as the author of written statement no 71/2009 adopted by parliament on the fight against breast cancer in the eu, i am very pleased with the european commission's communication entitled 'the fight against cancer: a european partnership'. this document identified the problem of cancer in the eu and set targets for the fight against cancer. although healthcare is de facto a matter for the member states, the eu can act as a complement and provide an excellent platform for exchanging good practice, for example. it will be up to the member states to make use of this additional tool developed by the commission. the proposal has a very specific target of reducing the burden of cancer in the eu by 15% by 2020. to achieve this, an integrated pan-european cancer strategy needs to be developed by 2013. the next step is to reduce the disparity in cancer mortality among europeans receiving treatment by 70%. the gap between the best and worst performing countries in the eu is still too wide. the communication also emphasises the need for prevention and for 100% of the eu population to be screened for breast, cervical and colon cancer. i am pleased that our recent appeal in written statement no 71/2009 has come at a favourable time for the commission's work, which i hope will lead to its swift and certain implementation.
in writing. - according to the world health organization, cancer is the leading cause of death worldwide. today, one in three europeans is diagnosed with cancer and one in four dies from it. unfortunately, the aging of our population will also increase the incidence of cancer in the coming decades. i believe that to prevent this upward trend we need to improve national cancer plans and to carry out an even more effective public information campaign in the union. healthy lifestyles should be taught to children from an early age, and this will reduce the number of illnesses in the future. experts say that one third of all cancers are preventable, but to do so, the eu needs to increase funding for cancer research and broad-based cancer prevention across the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution 'fighting cancer: a european partnership'. all actions to combat cancer and minimise its effects need to be supported. medical progress has not yet been able to stop cancer, which is becoming one of the greatest scourges of mankind. the fact that cancer was the second leading cause of death in 2006 is frightening. cancers have many causes, or they often go undiagnosed. but there is a way to prevent cancer and reduce its effects by about 30 percent. this requires appropriate national testing mechanisms. the european union, guided by the well-being and safety of its citizens, must ensure that appropriate methods of early diagnosis, prevention and advanced treatment are developed. in many countries, progress has been made in the fight against cancer, including through the implementation of anti-smoking strategies and specific prevention. similar actions, but with increased strength and effectiveness, should be applied across the union. the prognosis for the next few years in terms of morbidity and mortality from cancer is not optimistic. the knowledge that many people will die of cancer despite the various ways of diagnosing and treating it is always bitter and sad. but let us make sure that our citizens feel that they have our full support in this regard.
in writing. - i strongly support the european parliament's report on the commission communication 'fighting cancer: a european partnership'. the international agency for research on cancer estimates that one in three europeans will be diagnosed with cancer and one in four will die from it. this year, 3 million europeans will develop cancer and nearly 2 million will die of cancer. in poland, about 100,000 people develop cancer each year, and 70,000 die. the fight against cancer is a permanent area of union action in the field of public health. the lisbon treaty has emphasised the union's competences to support, coordinate or complement member states' actions to protect and improve health. the commission's initiative 'a european partnership to fight cancer 2009-2013' gives more detail on this. the objectives of the partnership, including in particular preventive actions, are essential to reduce the incidence of cancer. the limited financial resources available for these purposes are a cause for concern. the communication sets targets for the next 10 years, while the community budget provides only short-term financial support. i therefore call for: increased funding, especially for regional policy and european social fund prevention programmes; more effective use of the resources available under the 7th framework programme (e.g. for better coordination of scientific research); more funding planned in the new financial perspective.
in writing. - today we voted on a resolution prepared by the slovenian mep alojz peterle (epp) on the fight against cancer. i voted in favour of the european commission's proposal to establish a european partnership to fight cancer for the period 2009-2013. this new form of cooperation is intended to support member states' efforts to combat cancer. medical statistics confirm that more than 3 million new cases and 1.7 million deaths are recorded in europe each year. thus, cancer is the second most common cause of illness and death each year. the european partnership calls on member states to draw up integrated plans to combat this deadly disease as soon as possible, with the aim of reducing the incidence by 15% by 2020. but we must not forget that prevention is the key to this unequal battle. it's the most cost-effective because one-third of all cancers are preventable. prevention should therefore be promoted both in medical practice and in increasingly healthy lifestyles.
in writing. − given that progress towards the 20% energy saving target for 2020 is too slow, there is a need to increase and accelerate innovation in ict and to significantly increase the share of renewable energy sources. it should be noted that the growth of the transport sector is accompanied by a rapid increase in carbon dioxide emissions. the emphasis should therefore be on the use of information and communication technologies in this sector, not only to reduce emissions but also to prevent them from increasing. ict solutions must be taken into account in the planning of a new european transport policy. this can lead to a reduction in traffic congestion, which has a positive impact on the environment. all these actions will not only bring tangible climate benefits, but also reduce energy costs and lead to the creation of green jobs. however, it should be borne in mind that the new member states are not able to adapt so quickly to the requirements imposed by the european union. the interests of these countries must also be taken into account, as they are a significant group that still uses traditional energy sources. it takes time and money to change that.
in writing. − inevitable climate change is forcing the european union's society and economy to adapt to the new reality. i believe that there is a need for an adaptation policy which should be appropriate to the nature and type of change taking place and which should include a strategy for protecting the most vulnerable areas. in order to better coordinate action, i fully agree with the rapporteur and consider it extremely important to implement a system of information exchange and monitoring at the interstate level, but also at the regional and local level. i am particularly pleased to highlight the important role of the common agricultural policy, which plays a key role in the process of adaptation to climate change as a watchdog for the protection of ecosystems and biodiversity. that is why i think it is very important to have projects that prevent or mitigate the effects of drought and floods, that support farmers in working in difficult conditions.
in writing. − the results of scientific work indicate that the effects of climate change will have an increasing impact on the environment, the economy and our daily lives. taking action to adapt to the current and future impacts of climate change is therefore a major challenge for societies around the world. decisions on how best to adapt to climate change must be based on sound scientific and economic analysis, but not all regions have access to information of the right quality. the creation of a climate change monitoring platform to exchange information, experience and best practice at european, regional and local levels is therefore a good initiative. i am not sure, however, that the eu's taking on the role of leader in the international fight against global warming, as recommended in the document, is not an attempt to take on too much responsibility for global affairs. i think that in the face of challenges like the economic crisis, or the need to create growth, we shouldn't prioritize spending on global warming. whatever action is taken to adapt to climate change, it should also be borne in mind that some countries will face exceptionally high costs for implementing adaptation policies and that leaving them without any financial support may lead to a widening of the development gap between member states.
in writing. − securing value for money, effective management, and the elimination of fraud are key priorities of the ecr group for the eu budget. we therefore support the thrust of the cozzolino report and most of its conclusions. the ecr group cannot, however, endorse the concept of a european public prosecutor. this office risks being a dangerous first step towards european competence for aspects of criminal law and the focus on its creation is a distraction from making existing systems and bodies work effectively. as the ecr amendment to remove the paragraph supporting progress towards a european public prosecutor was rejected, the ecr abstained on the final vote.
in writing. − it is worth noting that there was a significant drop in irregularities in 2008 compared to the previous year. the biggest improvement was in agricultural spending. the report shows that the estimated amount of irregularities has decreased by 34%. the biggest increase was in the area of pre-accession funds, where misspending increased by as much as 90.6%, but it should be remembered that these are not member states and lack experience. despite the improvement in 2008, a certain part of the union budget is still being misused. this is partly due to the lack of effective control and supervision mechanisms. the european anti-fraud office (olaf), which has been in existence since 1999, has had a number of successes in the fight against fraud, but it is necessary to ensure its full operational independence. i support the rapporteur's proposal to allow olaf to make greater use of internal controls carried out by the commission rather than relying solely on information from officials or member states. what is the role of the member states and their supervisory and control systems? the fight against fraud in european projects should be our priority. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial instruments for the period 2007-13 is based on the principle of the european monetary system (ems) and the principle of sound financial management. we must not forget that the money in the eu budget belongs to all of us - the taxpayers. therefore, it is necessary to ensure that they are spent as efficiently as possible.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 6 may 2010.
i'd like to start by giving you some information. first of all, today is the sixth international day against homophobia in the european union. exactly 20 years ago, the world health organization removed homosexuality from the international classification of diseases. the european union is fighting discrimination in all areas. and that goes for homophobia, too. we have included the obligation to protect those who are discriminated against in our most important legal acts, the treaty and the charter of fundamental rights annexed to the treaty. fyi number two: this month we celebrated the 60th anniversary of the schuman declaration. on 8 and 9 may, we had the open days of our parliament in brussels and strasbourg. you could see the work of parliament up close, you could learn about our daily work; the buildings were open to all citizens. in total, more than 33 000 eu citizens visited parliament in brussels and strasbourg. we also had a meeting in this room with 800 representatives of young people from all the countries of the european union. we had a discussion with them, 11 members of parliament were with me, and we sat together and discussed matters relating to the union. point number three, as far as information is concerned. a week ago, on tuesday, may 11th, i had the great honor of presenting the charlemagne prize at the youth achievement awards. the german project 'a train to europe' won, the irish project came second, and the bulgarian project came third. young people from all eu countries took part in these projects. the german project brought together representatives of 21 european countries, 24 universities linked to technical fields were building a joint technical project. the main prize of charlemagne was awarded on 13 may also in akwizgran, i.e. two days after the youth prize and was awarded to the prime minister of poland donald tusk. information number four: last week i attended the conference of presidents of the parliaments of the european union in stockholm. the presidents of all 40 chambers of the national parliaments were represented. we talked about future cooperation, including the upcoming belgian presidency. the present discussions were organised by colleagues from the swedish parliament with the participation of colleagues from the spanish parliament, which currently holds the presidency of the european union. we will also have regular meetings of parliamentary committees, among others, as well as joint meetings of national european parliaments. i would also like to extend my congratulations and best wishes. two european union countries: the united kingdom and hungary have new governments we want them to be stable governments. in the european union, we need stable governments, and we need them to make decisions quickly. we represent the community method of the european union, but cooperation with governments is fundamental to our efficiency and effectiveness for the citizens of the european union.
thank you so much for your attention. it is very important that we always show solidarity with the soldiers who fight on our behalf against terrorism and against the manifestations of various abuses in afghanistan and other european countries, solidarity for their great sacrifice for our common cause, which is relevant everywhere in the world. that is our custom in the european parliament. i thank both of you again for bringing this to my attention.
i agree with my colleague completely. i think we all have the same view on this matter. they are the europeans who represent us all in the fight against terrorism and all forms of violence in the world. they're our representatives.
we now come to the agenda: you have received the final draft agenda as adopted by the conference of presidents on 12 may 2010 in accordance with rule 140. monday - same. tuesday - same. wednesdayi received a letter from our colleague, mr carlo casini, chairman of the committee on constitutional affairs, in which the committee asked the european parliament to consult the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions on the proposal for a regulation on the citizens' initiative under articles 304 and 307 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i anticipate that the vote on these motions for resolutions will take place at 12 noon on wednesday. (parliament adopted the proposal) we are now moving on to the final agenda: as far as monday and tuesday are concerned, there were no requests or reports for changes to the agenda. the european people's party group has asked for a vote on the report by mr richard czarnecki on the discharge for the implementation of the council's budget for the financial year 2008. on behalf of the group of the european people's party, mrs gräßle will be speaking on the motion.
(parliament adopted the proposal) - the vote on the report by mr ryszard czarnecki will take place on wednesday, the deadline for tabling amendments being 12 noon on tuesday 18 may. the group of the european people's party has asked for the debate on the report by mrs edith bauer on the organisation of working time for persons performing routine road transport activities to be postponed until the next partsession. the rapporteur, mrs bauer, will be speaking in favour of this motion.
the debate on the edit bauer report is adjourned until the next part-session. (parliament adopted the proposal) thursdaythe proposal for thursday is as follows: the group of the european people's party has asked that the debate on the arrest of journalist ernest vardana, scheduled for thursday afternoon, be replaced by a debate on the situation in thailand. so instead of debating the arrest of journalist ernest vardanyan in transnistria, we will debate the situation in thailand. mr preda will explain this proposal in more detail.
we've heard the reasoning behind the motion. who would like to speak in favor of the motion?
the debate on the arrest of journalist ernst vardanyan in transnistria is replaced by a debate on the situation in thailand. these are urgent matters that are handled on thursday afternoons. the agenda for our plenary session has been set. (parliament adopted the proposal)
the next item on the agenda is the one-minute speeches on important political issues (rule 150 of the ep's rules of procedure).
ladies and gentlemen, please do not talk in the chamber during the plenary sitting unless you can do so quietly. colleagues on both sides of the european parliament and in the centre, chairs of political groups, dear colleague from luxembourg, please sit down and stop talking. colleagues, this is a plenary sitting, so please stop talking and give us the opportunity to carry on with our one-minute speeches.
i would like to remind you that the committee on constitutional affairs of the european parliament interprets such situations and will certainly continue to work on this.
mr kazak, you spoke too quickly for our interpreters. it was not possible for them to interpret your speech precisely. that concludes the item.
adopting these current solutions seems very important from an economic, social point of view but also because of the values of family protection and equality. the current crisis and the resulting rise in unemployment are particularly damaging for the most vulnerable groups. one of those groups is women. therefore, legal solutions that ensure equal status for the selfemployed will make it easier for women to become self-employed. this is important for accelerating economic growth in europe and reducing unemployment, but it is also important because more and more women are choosing to be self-employed. they are the ones who make the decisions, they are the owners of the company, they decide on the initiatives and the spending, they are not discriminated against. small businesses are thus the place where women who want to be active in their work but do not want to give up their family life can achieve their ambitions. and it is these solutions that will facilitate and enable countries that are serious about family policy to take this opportunity and develop their own legislation. i would like to draw attention to a group that needs further protection and our consideration of its situation. these are women who work in the home. housework is not considered a job, although it is actually about 200 activities performed daily. women working at home are often not covered by any pension, health insurance or entitlement to any leave. i therefore believe that rules should be introduced to make it easier for these women to benefit from all social protection.
i was pleased to see the almost unanimous adoption in the femm committee of the report by mrs astrid lulling on the amendment of the directive on equal treatment for women and men in self-employment. it is very important that a compromise has been reached and the situation of the selfemployed, who represent about 10% of the total number of people in employment, has been improved. among the changes introduced, the most important are the possibility for self-employed persons and their spouses and life partners to benefit from social benefits, including, in particular, the possibility of contributing to their own pension, as well as paid maternity leave similar to that granted to women in an employment relationship under union legislation. these are solutions that will not only improve the situation of women, but also close the significant gap between self-employed and those in other forms of employment. millions of people working in family businesses will finally be able to benefit from voluntary and membership-based social security protection, the absence of which leaves them in a worse situation. this is an important step forward, especially since the compromise reached this year was impossible to work out for many years. i urge my colleagues to support this report. i would like to thank mrs lulling very warmly for this report, which will make life easier for many women who are self-employed.
in writing. energy consumption in buildings accounts for almost one third of all energy consumed in the european union. this segment therefore has significant potential for reducing energy consumption not only because of the commitments made to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but also because of the issue of energy security. the key provisions of the proposed directive include the concept of 'nearly zero energy buildings'. let us recall that by the end of 2020, all new buildings are to be nearly zero-energy buildings, and in the case of the public sector, which should set an example, two years earlier. on the other hand, two elements of the directive under discussion deserve a positive assessment. first, the creation by 2020 of an energy efficiency fund, which would act as a vehicle for increasing private and public investment in projects to improve the energy efficiency of buildings. this type of structural support gives the opportunity to achieve the intended objectives. secondly, the inclusion in the text of the draft directive of a provision on the introduction of smart metering systems and active control systems, aimed at energy saving. the widespread deployment of these devices can bring benefits to consumers in terms of price, energy efficiency and energy security.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to thank mrs ranner, on behalf of myself and my colleague siim kallas, whom i am replacing, for her report on a particularly important aspect of social regulation in road transport. the commission's initial report highlighted the very significant differences between the penalties applicable in the member states in the event of serious infringements of social legislation in road transport. the penalties vary in terms of both type, severity and amount of fines. for example, a driver who exceeds the maximum daily driving time risks a fine in spain that may be ten times higher than in greece. the commission welcomes the decision of parliament to act on its report. parliament stressed the unsatisfactory state of affairs, as drivers and businesses may wrongly consider that committing an offence is less serious in one member state than in another. this is clearly potentially harmful to road safety and competition. the parliament's report thus provides valuable support to the commission's efforts to coordinate the harmonization of the implementation of the existing regulations. the report of the parliament suggests, among other things, that minimum and maximum penalties should be set for each of the infringements of social legislation and stresses that the treaty of lisbon, as the rapporteur has said, opens up, through article 83, the possibility of establishing minimum rules on penalties. the commission will shortly be examining with the greatest care to what extent and in what form these new treaty provisions can be used to improve the implementation of social rules in road transport. i thank you for this particularly constructive report and i can assure you that the questions raised and the suggestions made by the european parliament will be examined by the commission with the greatest attention.
on paper. today's discussion gives us an insight into the different sanctions for serious infringements of social rules in road transport provided for by the legislation of the 27 member states of the community. the idea of a multilingual brochure that would provide drivers and businesses with transparent information on social legislation in the various member states seems therefore to be particularly valuable. such a leaflet should contain an estimate of the penalties imposed on the driver for infringement of the provision concerned. the use of rds-tms technology rather than gps technology to inform drivers in real time about the sanctions in force in the country where the driver is currently located also seems to be of interest.
the european parliament, which has greater powers and is expected to play a greater role after the ratification of the lisbon treaty, will naturally need to have greater financial resources to achieve this objective. my predecessor is right, we don't know how much this role will increase in practice, but we know it will increase. and so, of course, the expectations of our voters, our taxpayers, are higher than we are. the commission's proposal to increase the allocation of resources for meps' assistants, for example, is therefore absolutely justified in terms of both substance and policy. we are aware that there is a very serious crisis in greece and in the southern european countries in general at the moment, and this is of course a political problem, but we cannot cut the european parliament's functions by cutting spending. i am firmly convinced that the budget of the european parliament should be substantially increased.
first of all, i would like to congratulate mr coelho on his successive reports. secondly, there is no turning back from sis ii today. if we are to think about a secure system, sis ii must be implemented and it therefore seems necessary to continue these activities and to support the commission in this respect. i remind you that the new visa code requires biometrics to be entered into this system. sis 1+ does not provide such a guarantee, sis ii will allow for rapid data verification in the future. so in this area of security we cannot give up on sis ii. of course, one would wish that these works were more effective and more successful. i would remind you that we have also recently adopted solutions which allow for adequate communication throughout the schengen area on the basis of long-term visas. therefore, work on sis ii must continue. we want to support the commission in this regard, hoping that its action will be accelerated and more effective, and we should wish it success in this respect. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, i propose that the words 'at a global level' be added to the words 'to introduce an international financial transaction tax'. i think it makes more sense. thank you very much. thank you.
madam president, i have decided to support this initiative which offers an opportunity for the development of certain areas in europe. it should be noted that certain areas in europe itself are also becoming such economic peripheral areas. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a clear answer.
in writing. − the main factors shaping energy efficiency are: 1. conversion of one kind of energy into another so that specific useful work can be done. the longer the chain of change, the greater the loss. in practice, this is mainly the flow of heat energy released from primary energy sources, much of which is released into the environment. this effect can be reduced in cogeneration processes, which can reach an efficiency of up to about 90%. 2. the electrical resistance, called ohm's resistance, is important in electrical energy transfer. the heat resistance. the low resistance is a significant feature in heat exchangers, and the high resistance is a function of the low conductivity of the heat through the insulation. the use of these insulation materials (e.g. styropian, mineral wool, cellular concrete) significantly reduces the energy demand of the dwelling. it's currently large, about 40% of the total energy used. 4. friction in anti-friction processes, e.g. in bearings, or friction processes, e.g. in brakes, mainly affects vehicles and aircraft (turbulence). friction losses are about 30% of the total energy. i was in favour of the regulation without amendments, because energy losses in housing are next to conversion losses the biggest, and the savings will help poor people. in the case of poland, thermal modernisation, alongside cogeneration, can bring economic, social and environmental benefits. there should be some priority for implementation in this area, as new regulations often hamper the implementation of previous ones.
in writing. - given the need to help refugees in europe, i consider the european parliament's decisions on this matter to be of particular importance. the main objective of the fund is to support actions undertaken by member states, which often involve additional financial measures. they are designed to ensure that refugees have a decent standard of living and that their stay in the eu is regulated by law. i think it's necessary to increase financial aid to countries that are involved in helping refugees. we cannot support the charge that we, as developed countries, are trying to prevent the influx of refugees, rather than protect them at all costs. refugees coming to europe from third world countries, often facing enormous problems such as violence, lack of livelihood and access to medical care, should be surrounded by the best-organised care available in the member states.
in writing. - it is good that a common eu resettlement programme has been established. the number of refugees requiring resettlement is increasing, as opposed to the number of places available to them. on the other hand, the countries hosting refugees are often poorer and their resources are limited. resettlement should be considered as a last resort the only solution when a refugee cannot return to his or her home country or find safe refuge in a third country. member states should adopt a more ambitious programme to ensure the quality and effectiveness of resettlement. the establishment of private funding mechanisms and more frequent public-law initiatives to strengthen the european resettlement programme should be encouraged. particular attention needs to be paid to the human resources needed in the current and future eu resettlement programme in order to put in place a procedure that will enable good practices on the adaptation and integration of refugees into the host society. the aim is to establish a common eu resettlement programme to increase the number of people resettled and improve their situation in the eu through closer cooperation between eu governments. every effort should be made to involve more union countries in the union resettlement programme, which is the starting point for political and practical cooperation between the union countries for the permanent protection of foreigners.
in writing. − i was pleased to support the report on this subject, and i hope that the objectives of the 'education and training 2010' programme will be implemented swiftly. as an academic teacher and professor with many years of experience, i pay particular attention to the need to create greater mobility between higher education institutions, the business world and vocational education and training. modern higher education should prepare students comprehensively for entry into the labour market. in addition to sound knowledge, competences such as entrepreneurship, intercultural understanding and creativity are becoming increasingly important. they determine career success as much as the content of training. so education is very important in this respect as well. more effective action is also needed to increase the representation of women in science and research. i have already asked the european commission for its opinion on this matter and to consider the possibility of creating special programmes to promote equal opportunities for women in science. given the alarming figures on the qualifications of europeans including the fact that 77 million people, or almost a third of the european population aged 25-64, have no or very low formal qualifications i consider this check to be extremely important for the promotion of learning and the upgrading of professional skills. i therefore call on the eu member states and the commission to implement the programme effectively.
in writing. - education plays an important social role, opening doors and creating prospects for a better future. we must therefore do everything we can to help educate young people through eu programmes and scholarships in combination with national solutions. in an era of globalisation, increased competition and rapid change, lifelong learning is essential. thanks to student exchanges such as erasmus, our young people not only deepen their skills but also broaden their horizons. learning new cultures, languages and international contacts leads to stronger bonds within europe and helps to create a european identity. europe's ambition is to be at the forefront of research and development, innovation and new technologies to help manage energy resources better. the hope is in the young, and that is why we must give priority to this group. young people have difficulty entering the labour market after leaving university, as employers very often put emphasis on work experience that young people do not have at this stage of life. this is why we need to promote dialogue between universities and businesses, adapt courses to labour market needs and put emphasis on traineeships and internships that will make it easier to find a job.
in writing. - i voted in favour of european parliament resolution a7-0113/2010 on 'investing in and mobilising young people: an eu strategy for youth' (2009/2159 (ini)), because the formulation of a youth strategy is of the utmost importance today. the young people of european societies face many challenges in the near future. the economic crisis and the ageing of our society are certainly important and pressing issues, mainly for those who will shape the future. what we should, and indeed we need to offer all of these people, in a few years, but also today, as they enter adulthood, is equal opportunity and equal access. unfortunately, there are many young and capable people who, for various reasons, have been left behind. we should give them that second chance. solutions such as financial support for people who have completed their studies are necessary for a smooth transition to the labour market. unfortunately, youth unemployment is high and inequalities in the labour market persist. there are far more problems than i've listed. i therefore fully agree with the rapporteur that this report is a further step in a continuing process: a process which is our duty, our eternal duty to future generations. that's what we're supposed to do today, and that's what we should do.
in writing. - i have supported the eu youth strategy with full conviction and confidence. this is one of the key areas of the culture and education committee, where i work. the situation of young people and their educational and professional opportunities must be improved. three things are crucial in this regard. 1.youth in the eu, including poland, are successfully benefiting from community programmes such as comenius, erasmus, leonardo da vinci. it is therefore very important to increase funding for them and to recognise them as the basis for developing multiannual eu youth strategies. in the future, these programmes should receive more financial support. investing in the education of young people is the best possible use of the eu budget. i also call for the improvement and full implementation of the erasmus mundus programme. 2. as a socialist, i also stress the need to create equal opportunities for young people in access to education. we need to provide grants for those who cannot afford to go to college. it is also important to help and facilitate young people's access to the labour market. 3.in the context of the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, i would point out the obligations of the member states to implement the strategy, including encouraging young people to participate in democratic life, paying particular attention to young athletes of both sexes and enforcing the provisions of the charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. - the report adopted by the european parliament addresses in an integral way the multidimensional issue of youth, which sometimes seems to be under-represented or pushed to the background. today's young people will shape the future of europe, and we must ensure that they are properly developed and helped to make the most of the opportunities that the union offers. youth is an added value it brings freshness and innovation, it can bring to life a social vision of europe based on tolerance, diversity and equality. the issue of youth is becoming even more important in the context of the current economic crisis and demographic conditions in europe. young people are more vulnerable to the negative effects of the current economic situation. unemployment among this group is almost twice as high as in the general labour force, and financial circumstances often force young people to drop out of education, which can lead to poverty and exclusion. in the context of an ageing society, instruments should be found to encourage young people to start families. often, financial hardship, problems finding a job, or problems adjusting to family life delay the decision. the framework for cooperation in the youth field should be clearer and more concrete in terms of organisation. youth is a cross-cutting issue and requires the involvement of many policy areas.
in writing. - the resolution adopted today on the commission communication on a european union strategy for youth shows the right direction based on an integrated approach to the problems and needs of young people. we expect that taking the interests of young people and future generations into account in the formulation of policy strategies at all political levels will ensure that the most pressing issues are addressed effectively and efficiently. for example, the persistently high unemployment rate in this social group indicates the lack of structural solutions, such as the failures of education systems that educate young people in isolation from the needs of labour markets. young people should be encouraged to be active in civil society, to be involved in politics, to be motivated to take initiatives. we need to create the conditions for them to be creative in the cultural field, to be interested in the arts and sciences and new technologies. on the other hand, we should protect young people from discrimination, and campaign for environmental values, not forgetting the fight against drug addiction and other addictions to which young people are particularly vulnerable. that is why i was pleased to support the resolution tabled by mr georgios papanikolaou.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? ladies and gentlemen! i voted in favour of the report on macro-financial assistance to ukraine. this is a major decision, which means we're going to help a very important neighbor of the european union and poland. the 500 million euro loan is the amount that will help ukraine get out of the financial crisis. it is hardly necessary to convince anyone that the economic stabilisation of ukraine and the reform of the ukrainian energy sector are in the union's interest. whether these goals are achieved depends on the ukrainians themselves. i'm glad we showed today that we want to work together and help.
in writing. − peripheral areas are typically characterised by low population density, small area, stagnation and difficult economic conditions. these are regions that are highly dependent on climatic and geographical conditions and that base their access to products and services on cooperation with the community mainland. the aid to these areas should be guaranteed on a permanent basis, just as the obstacles faced by the population of the peripheral areas are permanent. in order to ensure that these regions develop their entrepreneurship, stimulate their professional activity and achieve the same level of agricultural activity as in the rest of europe, new and existing legislative concessions tailored to the needs of specific areas should be introduced and continued.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution (a7-0056/2010), because the second pillar of the common agricultural policy, namely rural development policy, is of the utmost importance for improving the efficiency of the cap itself, but also for facilitating management in areas with a handicap. the document prepared by the rapporteur is very much needed not only by us but by the whole european union. we need to have knowledge about land that for reasons beyond the control of the owners, is excluded from efficiency and good use. i agree with the rapporteur in her assessment of the review of the criteria for classifying disadvantaged farms launched in 2005. the criteria for supporting these areas, which were already prepared in advance, now need to be modified to take account of the actual difficulties. it is also worth remembering the areas that meet certain criteria but where the obstacles have already been removed by the application of certain solutions. it should be the responsibility of the member states to identify their areas and to shape aid and development programmes. of course, all these measures must be based on a community framework.
in writing. - we have become accustomed to the fact that the european parliament's budget reflects complex compromises between the ep and the other community institutions, and indirectly between the european union and the member states. the next year may prove particularly difficult in this respect, given the scale and scope of the tasks facing parliament. on the one hand, the ep will have to adapt to the new operating conditions resulting from the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and the enlargement of the eu to include croatia. on the other hand, the ep budget will not increase significantly compared to 2010 (5.5%), raising the question: how to reconcile this figure with the new reality? in this context, i welcome the report's repeated call for prudent spending planning. i agree with the author that the allowances for the families of staff should be revised, that staff should be increased in the library only after a thorough analysis of the needs of the members and that security for the staff of the ep should be ensured at reasonable cost and on the basis of the principle of openness to the ordinary citizen. parliament remains too closed and we should increase funding for projects such as the house of european history and visits to the ep where possible.
in writing. - simplifying the rules governing the operation of the common agricultural policy is of paramount importance. this policy should not be reduced to the distribution of money. i would personally like to see more money going to individual farmer-investors who can more effectively modernise their farms and develop production. on the other hand, increasing the funding of direct payments is, in my view, perpetuating poverty in the most backward regions, supporting people who are not really connected to agriculture and inhibiting agricultural restructuring. only by supporting 'real' farmers, producers of healthy food and high quality products can europe and the world be safe in this area.
in writing. - by voting for this document, we have shown our determination to simplify the common agricultural policy. this process is essential to ensure an appropriate level of competitiveness of the european agricultural sector. it is clear that by harmonising regulations, reducing red tape and cutting costs, we have a chance of a simpler, fairer and more understandable common agricultural policy. however, it should be borne in mind that the targeted addressees of simplifications should not only be the national authorities and bodies managing the agricultural sector, but above all those burdened by the surplus of agricultural legislation.
in writing. − public procurement in the eu's internal market accounts for about 15% of its gdp. opening up the public procurement market is beneficial for contracting authorities, as larger markets give more choice and therefore lower costs and better quality. how public money is spent is very important. especially now that the post-crisis economy needs to be stimulated and member states are facing budgetary problems. as the rapporteur rightly pointed out, the current rules are quite complex, which is a particular challenge for local and regional authorities and small and medium-sized enterprises. in addition, further clarifications are needed on issues such as public-law partnerships, spatial planning and service concessions. i therefore lean towards the main points of mrs ruehle's report, which point to the need for greater legal transparency in the area of public procurement and which do not call for a change in the directives currently in force, but for a more in-depth analysis of the existing obstacles by the european commission services.
madam president, transplantation and transplantationology require a lot of support from us, and first and foremost, better organization and coordination within the health service. but it's also very important to increase public trust in this branch of medicine. especially since the public in europe is occasionally informed about various irregularities, including illegal trade in organs from unknown sources. as prosecutor general, i oversaw an investigation in poland that uncovered a number of irregularities in organ procurement, including illegal payments to doctors who were thus motivated to obtain information about donors suspected of brain death. for providing information about a single donor, a doctor could earn more than one month of his work in poland. when it comes to transplantation, the public needs to be assured that everything is done in a lawful, transparent, and selfless manner, that there is no reason behind this noble medical procedure other than to save human lives. trust is absolutely essential.
i would like to thank you very much for the opportunity to speak and i would like to return to what i believe is a fundamental issue. well, there are very different models in the different countries of the european union when it comes to potential donors. in some countries, written consent from the potential donor is required, while in others it is assumed that if there is no objection, the donor can be harvested. these solutions obviously have a major impact on the number of donors. i would therefore like to ask the commissioner whether the commission should not be more active in supporting this second option, where written consent is not required. if there's no objection, then the number of donors would be dramatically higher.
i am glad that the issue of organ donation and transplantation is one of the priorities of the spanish presidency, because it is a matter of life and death. although the number of transplants is increasing every year, the number of people waiting for a transplant is not decreasing. despite growing public awareness, there is a huge disparity between member states in the area of donation and transplantation. so, in addition to creating a european model for donation and transplantation, where best practices, best solutions are used, it is very important to have public awareness and acceptance. so i'm pleased that the model for the proposed solutions is spain, which is the best performing country, both in terms of the number of donors and transplants performed, and in terms of the huge public support for the idea of transplantation and organ donation.
we must avoid serious risks by all means in acceding to the european convention on human rights. we have a major problem with the competition between two tribunals: the one in strasbourg and the european court of justice. the two documents that are causing problems are the charter of fundamental rights and the european convention. it will be very difficult to explain to our citizens which tribunal will be appropriate for their complaints. the number of cases of refusal to deal with a case on the grounds of conflict of jurisdiction and legal basis will therefore increase. there is also a risk that the union's accession to the european convention will restrict respect for the constitutional traditions of the member states which today constitute the general principles of law. in particular, the union's accession to the convention should not be intended to circumvent the binding protocol to the treaty of lisbon, which excludes the unintended effects of the charter of fundamental rights vis-à-vis the united kingdom and poland.
the review conference of the international criminal court will be an important opportunity for the member states of the union to commit themselves to the values that are central to us. fortunately, there is a widespread belief among europeans that the worst crimes must be tried and the perpetrators punished. in this context, it is good that the review conference is taking place in africa. it's a continent where many crimes go unpunished. the court is currently investigating in five african countries. these are kenya, the democratic republic of congo, sudan, uganda, and the central african republic. the impunity of those who commit horrific crimes against their own citizens and other people, regardless of their nationality, must be eliminated. the role of the court is crucial in this respect. if there had been a tribunal 70 years ago, the katyn massacre might not have happened. the very existence of an effective tribunal can act preventively. the european states should strengthen the tribunal in its core tasks: the investigation and prosecution of war crimes, genocide and crimes against humanity. it is important that successive states accede to the rome statute, as the effectiveness of the tribunal depends on cooperation between states and international organisations. therefore, all states party to the rome statute should engage in such cooperation, otherwise this effectiveness will not be achieved.
i'd like to return to the subject of today's proceedings. it is worth recalling that africa is a continent where crimes and genocide are very common. the european union cannot be passive in this situation. fortunately, the international criminal court in kampala is becoming increasingly important in the fight against crime. criminals need to know that they will never, anywhere, get away with it. i am therefore one of those who strongly advocate the union's support for the activities of the tribunal. i don't think we can have too many doubts today. i think we need to discuss and think about what we can do to make the kampala tribunal work more efficiently and effectively.
in writing. in the context of the forthcoming negotiations on the accession of the union to the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, i would like to draw attention to the aspect of external relations. this is an area which will be particularly marked by the union's accession to the convention. why would you do that? first, let me remind you that under the treaty of lisbon the european court of justice has very limited powers in the field of foreign policy. accession to the convention will partially compensate for these limitations by providing for external judicial review of all aspects of the union's activities. the european parliament and the council will be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. secondly, it goes without saying that the need to respect human rights is a recurring theme in the union's relations with third countries, including in the ep. accession to the convention will therefore give the union credibility in its human rights dialogue with third countries. the eu has a chance to strengthen the human rights dimension of its foreign and security policy by submitting itself to the scrutiny of the european court of human rights in strasbourg, and thus to promote the idea more effectively in the world... if it takes its own commitments seriously. let's hope that's what happens.
the european union's accession to the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms is certainly a step in the right direction towards ensuring equal and fair privileges for our citizens. we must ensure that its rules are respected in all the member states. it will also improve legislative coherence between the community and the council of europe countries and increase the number of institutions to which citizens can appeal in the event of a breach of their rights. it will also give greater prominence and credibility to the many initiatives of the european parliament in defence of the fundamental freedoms which belong to every human being. however, it should not be forgotten that, in addition to ensuring that the rights of third-country nationals are respected, the union must first ensure that they are not infringed in the member states.
in writing. when we talk about the european union's accession to the european convention on human rights, we are talking about a decade of work and about many concerns regarding, among other things, competition between the ets and the court of human rights. there will certainly be problems with the case law and the autonomy of the ets. but i think what we've achieved after 10 years is that there's a complementarity between the two systems, so let's move away from that hierarchical thinking. ets has long been following the work of the european court of human rights in strasbourg and vice versa. the two systems coexist and there is no competition between them, and perhaps these fears are unfounded. we need to join the convention for symbolic reasons, but above all, we need the convention because it will complement the human rights system in the european union and give it more credibility in the eyes of its citizens. they will be protected by the european union and its institutions, not just by the member states as they have been so far. yes, so let's be glad that this system is going to be strengthened. but we need a certain amount of loyalty to not question the credibility of this system. we therefore call on the member states not to bring any action against each other when eu law is at stake, using the possibility afforded to them by the convention.
member of the commission. − i will promise to start answering very briefly because the document to which the honourable member refers is a not a document adopted by the commission and its release was not authorised, but later this month the commission intends to adopt the communication to the council and the parliament assessing the benefits and the costs of the eu stepping up to a target of 30% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. this communication was actually requested by the environment council in its conclusions dated 15 march this year. so, needless to say, we have had a very short time, but we think it is an important debate; afterwards there will of course be a lot of details that we have to look at more closely. in addition, this communication will present, as requested under the ets directive, an analysis of the situation of energy-intensive sectors that it has been determined are exposed to a risk of carbon leakage in the light of the outcome of copenhagen. but let me just say one thing very clearly. it is not the intention of the commission to take a decision to go to 30% the day after this communication has been presented. it is just one step to try to ensure that, when we have the discussions on these reduction targets, we have a very informed foundation to take this discussion forward from. that is the purpose of this – to give us the analysis, the costs, the figures and the calculations, so that we can have an informed debate. i really hope that parliament will also take part in this debate.
the paper indicates that increasing reductions in central and eastern europe will be essential to reach the new emission reduction target. the commission notes that this will require a considerable financial contribution, but it wants to look for it in the structural funds for these countries. this would involve diverting funds to other purposes, i.e. to bring the development of the european union countries and their living standards into line, for example at the expense of the development of road infrastructure in the countries of central and eastern europe.
member of the commission. − firstly, i would like to study whatever you have agreed today on energy efficiency in buildings. there are many ways to cope with improved efforts there. there are also some alternative financial models that can be used so that it would be in the interest of those taking care of the buildings to make them much more energy efficient. there will be many ways of doing that – not necessarily requiring funds – and i would be happy to look into that. i agree very much with the questioner that one of the areas where we can do so much more in europe would be within the field of energy efficiency and buildings. there is such a huge potential there and it is just stupid that we use a lot of energy that none of us really benefit from because we are not using it efficiently enough. in response to chris davies, and regarding climate-change deniers: i try to address it when i meet it. despite all the discussions – and particularly in the united kingdom you have a huge discussion on this with east anglia and, although the ipcc should be better at correcting errors when they find them – to this day, i have seen nothing that really goes against the main finding of science, namely that we have to address this issue and we have to be serious about it. i think there are so many other reasons – which climate sceptics should also agree with – that it is so important to do something with energy efficiency and energy technologies. if europe is not ambitious here, i am very much afraid that we will lose the growing markets of this century to our competitors. carbon leakage is not a case where if we do things we risk losing jobs. i am really afraid that if we are too hesitant over the next number of years, we risk losing jobs on a very large scale. i am very happy to see that the new british government also seems to be very keen on being ambitious in the field of climate change. i think that is very crucial to all of us.
member of the commission. - my first words will be to thank mrs geringer from oedenberg for her question. it's very much at the heart of the current copyright and internet debates. unfortunately, copyright is too often presented as an obstacle to the creation of a digital single market. i don't think that's fair. i don't think that's fair. i know that. copyright allows the creator to sell what he has created, guarantees him a return on investment. this is not only true in the field of cultural creation, which mrs geringer de oedenberg knows so well. this is also true in the field of industry, creation, industrial innovation; a return on investment that allows the creator to then continue to create other works and new content. this business model that underpins copyright has been around for hundreds of years, but rights management has evolved naturally with technology -- radio, television, cable, satellite, and now, the internet. each time, new technologies have led to new business models that have led to a change in the exploitation and commercialisation of copyright. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, rather than proposing radical changes to copyright, i want to protect creation while seeking a legal framework that allows the emergence of new economic models. i announced this at my hearing before you on 13 january, and it is this principle that will guide my action. this is the role which i envisage for the european legislator. the digital agenda that the commission adopted on 19 may, under the dynamic impetus of my colleague and friend neelie kroes, contains my roadmap, including copyright and the internet. and this year, i'm going to take three initiatives in that spirit. firstly, a proposal for a framework directive on collective management of copyright. firstly, it is a question of allowing collective management companies to better organise themselves to offer new internet services, such as tailor-made directories, one-stop-shops. in return, the rules on governance, transparency and supervision of collective management companies should be aligned to allow for more transparent pricing and return of income to members of collective management companies. secondly, a directive on orphan works: the aim is to create the legal certainty needed to support efforts to digitize our cultural heritage. i am thinking of a european definition of orphan works. thirdly, i will present a green paper on audiovisual content and the internet. the challenge here is to analyse the conditions for the emergence of new video-on-demand services in europe. in 2011, we will launch a dialogue with the various stakeholders on the issues that impact the emergence of new value-added content services on the internet to see how to clarify the existing rules. the aim is to see what role technology can play in identifying and monetising digital content, to identify the challenges of the digital press, and to find out how to combat the black economy of the pirated internet more effectively. my method will be simple: i want to be able to listen to the different stakeholders while i propose the movement. i want a europe which allows new economic models to emerge. i have no a priori idea of what kind of intervention will be needed - legislative or otherwise. i have no dogma or illusion either about the possibility of finding one-size-fits-all solutions, but i would like to use this new dynamic of the internal market and the digital agenda, which mario monti has also mentioned in his report, to develop a real economic policy for the cultural sector in europe.
the author. - i welcome these initiatives taken by the commission. the additional question will be on the 2008 green paper on 'copyright in the knowledge-based economy', in which the commission acknowledges that the current system of optional exceptions to copyright established by the 2001 directive fails to fulfil its purpose, namely to facilitate the dissemination of copyrighted works and to reflect the balance between the rights of authors and the rights of persons using their works. and the point is that mandatory copyright exceptions are desperately needed for the use of libraries, for making works accessible to the blind, for distributing so-called orphan works. i would like to ask what initiatives the commission intends to put forward in the near future in connection with these exceptions to copyright cases?
member of the commission. − i had the opportunity to address the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs last monday and i repeat what i said at that time, namely that progress is being made on the negotiations with turkey. concerning frontex and the border control of turkey, they have reached an initial agreement on a draft working arrangement at a technical level. discussions are being pursued by both parties and, for the time being, frontex is awaiting a reply from turkey in order to continue the discussions. frontex is an important actor in this but first of all we need to get the agreement and then continue in parallel discussions with frontex. i agree that there is a lot of room for cooperation here.
member of the commission. − thank you to sarah ludford for this question. as you know, i have an interest in this and we have also cooperated in the past on this. it is needless to say that freedom and security go hand in hand, and respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law is at the heart of the european union’s approach to countering terrorism. measures to fight terrorism must always be undertaken within the framework of full respect for fundamental rights, and the eu must be exemplary in this respect. this is not only a legal requirement but also a key condition to ensuring credibility and legitimacy as well as for promoting mutual confidence between the national authorities, and confidence among the public at large. the commission will therefore continue to follow an approach on counter-terrorism which seeks to combine operational and legal effectiveness and feasibility with a clear commitment to the respect of fundamental rights. practices referred to as renditions and secret detentions are a violation of human rights. the commission has always stressed this, and it is up to the member states concerned to commence or to continue in-depth, independent and impartial investigations to establish the truth. this is a positive obligation, deriving from the european convention of human rights, in order to establish responsibilities and to enable victims to obtain compensation. we have, from the commission side, encouraged poland and romania to carry out investigations into allegations of the existence of secret detention facilities, and we welcome the launch of criminal investigations in poland in march 2008. the commission has also written to the lithuanian authorities welcoming their proactive attitude in initiating investigations. as far as the debate on rendition flights and its implications for eu aviation policy are concerned, the commission draws some lessons in the context of the communication of civil and business aviation from january 2008. furthermore, the single european sky, which entered into force last january, provides additional measures for monitoring the actual movement of aircraft, and we will continue to follow this carefully – within our powers, of course. in 2008 the commission provided panoramic factual information in its public staff document on terrorism and fundamental rights. this is a synthesis of the replies from the member states to the questionnaire on criminal law, administrative law, procedural law and fundamental rights in the fight against terrorism. all member states have replied to this questionnaire, and we are right now, in addition, preparing from the commission side a stock-taking exercise of the main eu measures and policy initiatives taken in the field of counter-terrorism until the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. counter-terrorism policy conducted at national level by member states or the participation on the cia rendition programme will not specifically be assessed in this context, but it is very clear what the commission thinks about this, and we will continue to follow developments in member states, including legal challenges brought against counter-terrorism measures in national courts, and to draw lessons from sustainable policy-making at eu level.
member of the commission. − i think the work done by the european parliament on this aspect has been extremely important in shining a light on the rendition programme and showing what has been happening. this has created momentum, but also strong public opinion to find out the truth. as i said, the commission has been urging and encouraging full, in-depth investigations in the countries affected and will continue to follow up and ensure these are really being carried out. the single european sky proposal is there to help us to further monitor this. we will keep an eye on this and will continue to push for clarity. besides that, there is not much concrete that the european commission can do, but we are happy to work with the european parliament in order to continue to push for clarity and to make sure that this is not something that would be part of the european policy against terrorism.
i would like to ask the commissioner for information on a matter which i believe is of importance. the fight against terrorism - and we all know that we must fight terrorism - also requires the cooperation of european countries. the question is therefore: do you observe that there is a greater tendency among the countries of the union to cooperate, or is there also a greater tendency to share with each other the various very important information needed to combat terrorism? are there any positive changes here?
the author. - i would like to point out that the oral question which has been put here was raised by the european commission's decision to identify groups which can benefit from social housing in the netherlands. this decision has generated a great deal of discussion and interest among meps, as it has significant consequences. it should be recognised that different definitions of social construction as a public service exist in different member states of the european union. these definitions also apply to the fact that we have different criteria for use, but also to other areas of responsibility. the responsibility lies with the public authorities, but the contractors are both public and private. the interest in social construction stems on the one hand from the public aid regulations, but also from the definition used to determine the costs eligible for the structural funds. therefore, in addition to this question, it is interesting to see whether the commission considers that there should be one definition across the european union. should the same rules apply to public aid for social housing? does the commission intend to set a threshold for the level of household income in each case, as in the netherlands? is this type of action compatible with the subsidiarity principle in force in the european union?
it is clear that we are dealing with a problem which is different in each member state. in the new countries, including poland, we have a lot of regions where a lot of people are homeless because of very, very low incomes. these people are mostly taken care of by local governments. it is up to local governments, regional institutions to help these people as soon as possible. without additional resources that local governments can allocate, without public support, assistance to those in the most difficult situation is impossible. at the same time, we should also consider how, in the future, when we develop a common policy, a common definition also in this area, we can make sure that there are additional funds available to regional authorities, so that they can have them at their disposal and create social housing, which is really very, very scarce in many european countries.
member of the commission. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. the 20th of april was a black day for the gulf of mexico, for the united states of america, no, for the whole world! for exactly four weeks, industry and the authorities have been making many efforts - so far without final success - to stop the enormous oil spill and reduce environmental damage, especially on the coast. the accident highlights the risks associated with offshore oil and gas operations. public perception has increased, and rightly so, not only in the united states but also in europe. europe, together with norway, produces more than 200 million tonnes of crude oil a year, most of it from the north sea. even if gas and oil exploration and production do not take place in similarly extreme conditions and at depths as in the gulf of mexico, we in the eu must be prepared for the possibility of an accident. we have the appropriate bodies and mechanisms to respond quickly to a possible accident. we have the european maritime safety agency, we have salvage vessels, we have civil protection mechanisms, we have good coordination of aid measures, and our colleague, commissioner georgieva, has therefore offered european aid early on for ongoing action in the gulf of mexico. our goal must be prevention, so that we don't have to deal with the big cleanup after a disaster. i have therefore asked the services, together with my colleague, commissioner potočnik, to review our applicable eu legislation. this european legislation provides the framework for safety and environmental protection measures, both in general and in the event of a specific accident. we are now examining all these laws to see whether they provide the best and most adequate instruments for a disaster of a similar nature, for a worst-case scenario. this is a matter of close cooperation with the national regulatory authorities, because a large part of the safety regulations in the field of promotion and health are in the hands of our member states and not directly with us. of course, a regulatory body does not offer a 100% guarantee. much depends on the attitude and behaviour of the operational sector in our industry. this is why we have every reason to come together: politics and business must work together to ensure that europe's environment and its citizens are as safe as possible. i want to put safety and sustainability in oil and gas production at the center of our stakeholder conversations. that is why i have already invited a high-level panel of the major energy companies operating in european waters last week. my colleague mrs georgieva was also present. in this fact-based meeting we called on industry to ensure that every possible effort is made to avoid similar accidents near european coasts. we have presented a catalogue of questions to be answered by the companies in the coming days: 12 questions which contain in concrete terms everything that is crucial for safety on the oil and gas platform and for the waters and the coast and the member states. i see this meeting with industry as the beginning of a process which will increase the transparency of industrial operations and encourage compliance with regulations and the application of best practice. we are planning a second meeting in the next few months, when we have a better understanding of the causes of the accident, to assess the situation and to draw the lessons for europe from the accident in the gulf of mexico. at the present time, when the causes and circumstances are still being analysed, it would be premature to draw any definitive conclusions or to call for new legislative initiatives. but if it should turn out that a regulatory response is necessary, then i can assure you that the commission will not hesitate to put forward proposals for european regulations. as you can see, ladies and gentlemen, there is a continuing effort in europe to prevent a similar tragedy in our own neighbourhood. if, however, a similar accident should occur, we have a variety of measures and mechanisms to respond effectively without delay and to minimise the impact on the citizens and the environment in europe. i shall be glad to tell you again what we have planned after the next meeting.
on behalf of the ppe group. the explosion of a platform in the gulf of mexico is the largest environmental disaster of its kind in history. every day, 800,000 liters of oil enter the gulf, and more than 22 million have leaked since the disaster began. the oil platform now covers over 17,000 square miles [43,000 sq km], more than the land area of the netherlands. at such a time, it is our duty to declare our solidarity with the united states and all the victims of this tragedy and to provide maximum assistance. in the light of this disaster, i believe that it is necessary to carry out immediately a sort of accounting, a detailed and thorough technical inspection of the drilling platforms in the territorial waters of the european union. this should be the first step at transnational level towards ensuring safety on european seas. i would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to the fact that if a similar disaster were to occur in the baltic sea, which is a closed sea, it would cause permanent and irreversible devastation throughout the region and the coastal areas. it is essential that all investments within the territorial waters of the european union are subject to special surveillance, meet the highest safety standards and are equipped with the most modern security systems. in this context, i also consider it necessary to develop a common crossborder response and cooperation procedure which would be immediately operational in the event of an oil spill. the us pointed out that in many cases, decisions to locate platforms in the gulf of mexico were made under pressure and in the interest of the oil industry, at the expense of the environment. it is difficult not to recall here the decision to build the north stream pipeline, which was a political decision that did not take into account the risks that this investment could pose to the baltic sea ecosystem. commissioner, in the face of the tragedy in the gulf of mexico, we can never allow the emergence of oil and gas drilling installations without a 100% guarantee of safety on the seas and oceans. decisions made under pressure from industry or political lobbying should be unacceptable.
the example of the disaster in the gulf of mexico is a sobering example of investment in the european union. i am talking about the northern gas pipeline being built against the recommendations of the european parliament. the gas will come from russia's stockman field in the barents sea. the project envisages the extraction of 24 billion cubic meters of gas per year in the first phase and 68 billion cubic meters of gas per year in the final phase. to get that much gas, you have to drill a lot of wells in a very short time. the 148,000 tons of methane flowing through the pipeline cannot be stopped because there are no valves or intermediate stations. a damaged pipeline doesn't mean it's closed. the gas will continue to escape until the failure is repaired. because if water gets inside the pipe, it'll damage it completely. i therefore call on the commission to carry out a thorough analysis of the risks involved in this type of investment.
in april, the volcano erupted, bringing european air traffic to a complete standstill. this incident, which was of course not attributable to any individual, had negative consequences for both passengers and all european airlines. at dozens of airports, airline passengers were left to fend for themselves, with no access to information about resuming flights. the only data that was available was the announcement that the airspace was closed. while no one can be blamed for the effects of natural forces on our daily lives, it is important to ask the question and summarise how the european union institutions, which are responsible for ensuring the safety of airline passengers, have behaved in this situation. unfortunately, it seems that their actions were decidedly inadequate and very late in relation to the event that occurred. the total chaos of air traffic experienced by passengers and the complete lack of knowledge of the dates of resumption of flights clearly put the eu institutions, and above all the european commission, in a negative situation. i would therefore like to know what the commission's intentions are for the future in the event of further volcanic eruptions. what steps will the commission take to prevent a similar situation from paralysing almost all of europe again and, above all, to improve the flow of information to passengers, which has been sorely lacking so far? i think that the solutions proposed by the european commission so far are unfortunately not sufficient.
in writing. 56 000 sick eu citizens are waiting for a transplant, including 2 000 in poland. 12 people die every day from lack of organs for transplant. donation and transplantation rates range from less than 1 in bulgaria to 34-35 donors per million in spain. in poland, the rate is 11. most organs are harvested from the dead on the basis of consent (opt-in) or presumption of consent (opt-out). in poland, the removal of cells, tissues and organs from human cadavers is allowed if the deceased person did not register in the central register of objections during his lifetime. the development of transplantation requires the creation of an atmosphere of social approval for the completion of wills, allowing for the removal of organs after death, and the condemnation of objections. i am personally actively involved in the promotion of transplantation and i encourage all my fellow members of parliament to do so. in poland, i distributed stamps and bracelets to encourage the use of transplant medicine. with colleagues from other political groups, i was launching a nationwide social action "chain of relatives" to promote transplantation and honorary blood donation. promoting transplantation and coordinating the exchange of experience across borders could save thousands of lives. it is necessary to establish a common union database of organs intended for donation and transplantation and a database of all living and deceased donors. it would also be an important tool in the fight against organ trafficking and human trafficking.
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on the mechanisms for enhanced economic governance, the statement by the council and the european commission on the outcome of the 7 may 2010 summit and the econfin meeting (resp 2010/269), the oral questions to the council and the commission on the political relevance of the eu 2020 strategy in the current financial and economic crisis (o-0052/2010 - b7-0213/2010), the oral question to the council on the impact of the financial and economic crisis on the eu 2020 strategy and its management (o-0068/2010 - b7-0301/2010), the oral questions to the council and the commission on the policy relevance of the eu 2020 strategy in the context of the current financial and economic crisis (o-0065/2010 - b7-019/2010), the oral question to the council and the commission on the policy relevance of the eu 2020 strategy in the context of the current financial and economic crisis (o-0065/2010 - b7-019/2010), the oral question to the council on the policy relevance of the eu 2020 strategy in the context of the current financial and economic crisis (o-0066/2010 - b7-02/2010), the oral question to the council on the policy relevance of the eu 2020 strategy in the context of the current financial and economic crisis (o-0065/2010 - b7-02/2010 - b7-02/2010).
mrs tzavela, i did not interrupt you, because you are from greece, and this issue is very important, but you spoke for more than one minute. please keep to your time next time.
i'd like to tell you that i'm in control of time. there were, indeed, time lags of a dozen, a dozen seconds. the lady who spoke just now was over the limit, but i allowed it because she represents greece and it was also the opinion of someone who lives in greece and this case seemed important to me. i don't usually let time pass, but i think we can all agree that this statement was particularly important to us.
i agree with mr mauro that we have too little europe to fight the crises. in recent years, we have focused on political integration, the lisbon treaty and the strengthening of the powers of political institutions, but we have neglected cooperation in crisis management. i mean, there are all kinds of crises that require cooperation and solidarity. it's not just about the financial crisis. as we are debating this, several countries in the european union, including my country, poland, are being flooded by a great flood, people are being killed, there is huge material loss. people expect the european union to come to their aid in such situations, but there is little help. the european union is weak because it has too little budget, too little money for concrete action. political reinforcement is not followed by corresponding financial reinforcement. i fear that in the wake of this crisis, the propensity to cut back will increase even more, because then we will be even weaker and more helpless.
for the third time, the european parliament is leaning towards the centrally prepared ten-year plan, europe 2020. he was disliked by many meps not only for his association with historically outdated political systems but also for the spectacular failure of his predecessor, the lisbon strategy.
mr president, there is little doubt about the seriousness of the current crisis and the ‘cost of use’ of unprecedented policy methods is very high. the task of regulators and policy-makers is to undertake actions that make it possible both to restore the equilibrium shattered by market failure and to correct failed government policies. this is being done, but it has still to be seen how fast, and through what policy measures, european union member states will return to their path of growth. more regulation is not a guarantee against the risks of the current crisis. as we have chosen the path of more regulation, it should go hand in hand with increased simplicity and reduce the complexity of financial markets. what is also clear is that fiscal and monetary policies are not substitutes for structural reforms. structural reforms have to address the underlying weaknesses of the european union economy: sharply growing debts and deficits, ageing, the highly probable new surge of inflation, risks generated by climate-change policies, low productivity and lack of competitiveness. with less public money, more will have to be done; hence, public money, both european and national, will have to be used more efficiently. a business-friendly regulatory environment, efficient government, non-distortionary taxes, high labour participation rates especially among women, a good education system, research and innovation – all that constitutes a minimum core package of measures to bring growth, jobs and competitiveness. without doubt the european winning strategy has to be based on fiscal tightening, but its focus should be on innovation, the only way to boost productivity and growth in a sustainable way. the european commission and the european parliament should regain their strategic role and go for brave european solutions. both citizens and markets need more europe.
today's discussion on economic governance in the european union is a fundamental one, as it touches on the question of further deepening european integration. the european union has a duty to help the countries of central and eastern europe to develop their economies in a way that is compatible with the common market. i think that none of us should have any doubt that the sound monitoring of public commitments and expenditure (the president interrupted), the coordination of the budgeting process and the reform plans in the member states at an early stage, or the crisis relief mechanism are solutions in the right direction. the priority should be to implement the principles of the stability and growth pact in a responsible manner, which is key to ensuring fiscal and macroeconomic stability in the european union. while the set of penalties and the naming and shaming principle are necessary to discipline member countries in implementing the principles of the pact and the necessary reforms, i am reserved about financial penalties. the sanctions applied to countries already in financial difficulty could have the opposite negative effect on the economies of those countries (the president interrupted). that is why i am calling for us to plan europe's future responsibly.
ladies and gentlemen, there is a lack of in-depth analysis of the causes of the eurozone crisis and the economic collapse in greece, or of the risks facing the next countries. is the global financial crisis, which has turned into an economic crisis, the cause of this situation, or are we dealing with our own mistakes, neglect and inaction? let us be clear and honest about the lack of coordination of financial policy in our union. the growth-stabilization pact was not respected, financial discipline was not respected. national budgets have often been disconnected from reality: high costs, low revenues, lack of accountability in government. i ask: where was the european central bank, where was the commission? let us be frank, the problem is that the member states do not allow the union institutions to monitor, assess and analyse their budgets. in recent years, we have focused on the lisbon treaty and paid less attention to economic union, and in particular monetary union.
in writing. the main objective of the europe 2020 strategy we are discussing should be to ensure economic growth in the european union and to increase employment. actions should aim at increasing economic activity and thus at achieving sustained economic growth in the long term. the indicators proposed by the commission should be supplemented by a saturation index for ict, transport, energy, environmental and social infrastructure. a well-developed infrastructure is the basis for the smooth functioning of the internal market, which in turn leads to an increase in domestic demand and economic activity. in addition, a well-developed infrastructure helps to close the development gap between regions, leading to increased competitiveness and economic, social and territorial cohesion. i would also like to refer to the employment rate, which should be given priority. our efforts should focus not only on structural reforms but also on better preparation and use of the eu's labour force and intellectual capital. there is no doubt in any of our minds that the implementation of the eu 2020 strategy requires a strengthening of the leadership and political accountability of the member states, but also of the european commission, in the implementation of structural reforms. in this context, a comprehensive assessment of the implementation of the eu 2020 strategy some five years after its implementation, i.e. at the end of the current european commission's mandate, would be helpful - this would allow for greater political accountability and linking action to results.
in writing. the polish minister for culture and national heritage, bogdan zdrojewski, pointed out that culture is an element that should be included in the europe 2020 strategy. i must say, the minister's argument is convincing. the aim is to 'emphasise the need to exploit the full potential of europe's cultural and creative industries, intellectual and social capital'. the creative industries can be seen as the ones that will allow europe to build competitive advantages. the europe 2020 strategy was discussed at an informal meeting of culture ministers in march. as a result of this discussion, the spanish presidency called on the council to 'recognize and exploit europe's creative potential through culture and related industries in the eu 2020 strategy; the member states and the commission to work, within their respective competences, to achieve the objectives of ... through flagship initiatives related to innovation, competitiveness, the digital agenda and social inclusion'. i hope that these appeals will be heard and implemented.
in writing. the europe 2020 strategy includes the objective of increasing employment to 75% of people of working age and of fighting poverty, which is expected to improve the living conditions of 20 million people. such effects are highly desirable and ambitious. our goal is a modernised labour market, with highly-skilled and highly-targeted, high-performing workforce. however, i think that's going to be difficult to do. at present, 15% of young people do not have a full secondary education. more than 30% of them have a university degree but still cannot find a job because their qualifications do not correspond to the needs of the market. the lifelong learning programme does not take into account the special situation of those without a higher education. and when it comes to poverty, the same groups are most at risk: the unemployed, the poorly educated and the elderly. such high unemployment is undoubtedly a result of the crisis, which, among other things, caused industrial production to fall to the level of 20 years ago. i support the commission's consistent efforts to make the eu's economy competitive with the united states and japan, but i suggest a more realistic approach in this extremely difficult financial situation.
in writing. in march, the european commission presented a new economic development plan for europe. europe 2020 is the next step in the european economic recovery after the lisbon strategy. this time, however, it is a more difficult challenge, as it is to be implemented in the context of the economic crisis. smart, sustainable and inclusive growth are the proposed pillars of the new strategy, which define where the european union should be by 2020. but before we can do that, we need to learn from the economic collapse that has swept the world for good. the european economies are closely interlinked. no member state can effectively address global threats on its own. we are stronger together, so the successful outcome of the crisis and the achievement of the europe 2020 goals depend on close coordination of economic policies across the european union. failure to do so could lead to another lost decade, a permanent stall in growth and mass unemployment. the new strategy is based on very ambitious assumptions. we must therefore do everything we can to ensure that this attempt to devise a new economic strategy for europe is not a wishful thinking and that it does not end up as the lisbon strategy, which was supposed to transform the european union into the most dynamic knowledge-based economy by 2010, and instead is a spectacular failure. thank you, sir.
the rapporteur. - we are in a much better position than last year, since we only discharged the commission in november. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have received, for example, the documents from the previous year. i think that this situation - of a certain crisis in relations between parliament and the council - indicates the need for the european parliament to increase pressure on the council in the context of greater transparency of budgetary expenditure. this is particularly necessary in the context of the lisbon treaty and the increased role of the european parliament.
i, unlike my predecessor, voted for this budget amendment. this is not a mere accounting amendment. this amendment has a profound meaning. why is that? well, that's because of our new role as a parliament, as a body that's been given legislative powers. the electors expect us to be able to correct the commission's proposals, to be able to correct the council's proposals. remember, in the back office, the commissioners have hundreds of people working for each commissioner. we have a back office staffed by individuals. so this is not the savings that we're supposed to be talking about here. it's simply the answer to a new function, a new role. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr mance, for his excellent report.
i was also in favour of adopting this document, because it's certainly a step in the right direction, but by agreeing to these principles that we will take care of the quality of donors and organs, i want to make it clear that this is only the first step in the right direction. if we are to substantially increase organ donation, much wider action and activities of a preventive and informative nature are needed in the union. if that doesn't go along with the donation drive, i think we're just gonna stop halfway.
in writing. - there is a lot of talk about the right of consumers to know what they are buying in food, household appliances and home furnishings. we want to know where they come from, how they're made, the nutrient content of the food. in the age of climate change, we all want to protect the environment and prevent weather anomalies, so we choose both food and everyday products with ecological considerations. it is therefore important that consumers are aware of the energy used during the operation of equipment and therefore i believe that they have the right to have this information on the labels. the inclusion of this information also proves the high quality of the product. it can therefore be a tool to protect the european market from cheap counterfeit equipment from outside the european union.
in writing. - the entry into force of the lisbon treaty is likely to result in a significant increase in parliament's workload. in particular, this will lead to the extension of the co-decision procedure to cover around 95% of the legislation enacted. the additional budgetary and human resources will allow parliament to fulfil a new role as co-legislator on par with the council.
in writing. - i voted against the adoption of the council's 2008 budget because the council's financial documents were sent to parliament too late. the ep's control of the council's finances is far from transparent.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on safety standards for organ donation because it takes into account the principle of non-commercialization of donation.
in writing. − human rights were one of the foundations of the european union's mission, a value which remains at the heart of the eu's concerns. this is borne out by eu law and the constitutional provisions of each member state. the accession of the european union to the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms (echr) is an important step towards strengthening the protection of the fundamental rights of the individual. by this decision, the eu becomes a party to the international system of protection of rights, thus strengthening its credibility in the eyes of third countries as well as its own citizens. the convention, while not altering the eu's institutional structure, adds another body, the european court of human rights, which will monitor the fulfilment of the union's obligations under the echr. since the report on the interinstitutional aspects of the accession of the european union to the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms contains provisions in line with the above-mentioned observations, i have decided to vote in favour of its adoption.
in writing. - i support the report primarily because it will complement the human rights system in the european union and give it more credibility in the eyes of its citizens. when there is no national or eu-wide remedy, when the claimant is refused access to the case, or when the eu institution cannot be sued. these are the situations where value is added. so let us continue to fight for a stronger human rights system in the eu.
the next item is the joint debate on: the report by lambert van nistelrooij on behalf of the committee on regional development on the implementation of the synergies of research and innovation funds in regulation (ec) no 1080/2006 on the european regional development fund and the seventh framework programme for research and development in cities and regions, as well as in the member states and the union [2009/2243 (ini) ] (a7-0138/2010), the report by loi grech on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on bringing the single market closer to consumers and citizens [2010/2011 (ini) ] (a7-0132/2010), the report by liang hoang on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the implementation of the long-term strategic objectives of the eu's economic and monetary policy (a7-0354/2010) (a7-0354/2010) (a7-0354/2010) (a7-0354/2010) (a7-0459/2010) (a7-022745/2010) (a7-045/2010) (a7-045/2010) (a7-045/2010) (a7-045/2010) (a7-045/2010) (a7-0459-049/2010 (a7-049/2001)),
there are very different conclusions to be drawn from this slow growth of europe and the collapse caused by the crisis. those in this house who are calling for a reduction in the concessionary, administrative and information burdens which are generated not only by the member states but also by the european union and this parliament are certainly right. but there are risks to treatment that are far worse than the disease. such a solution, detrimental to european growth, would be to increase the role of the european union in tax cooperation and coordination, and the resulting tax harmonisation. tax competition, like all competition, serves citizens and markets, provides opportunities for better performance, and is an important factor in our global competitiveness. it is therefore common freedoms, a common market, and not the extension of the union's powers, that should be the guiding principle of the union's economic policy.
in times of crisis, when the integrity of the european union is at stake, special attention must be paid to the cohesion of the union in support of economic growth. we still do not know how the crisis will affect the deepening of disparities between the different regions of europe. historical differences in regional development levels may increase, and new differences may emerge. in this context, mechanisms that reduce regional disparities are particularly needed. and continuing a strong regional policy is the way to do that. it would be unwise in this situation to abandon this policy and significantly reduce the funding that local and regional authorities have influence over. this would be a serious threat to the promotion of economic growth, but also a threat to european unity as such. both the europe 2020 strategy and cohesion policy have a common objective, are key to economic recovery and are of great importance for european solidarity policy. however, better coordination between them is needed. the creation of new separate thematic funds to respond to new challenges would be a waste of time and money, would also delay the implementation of this strategy and would condemn it to the fate of the lisbon treaty. we must ensure that key infrastructure projects are financed and reject the renationalisation of regional policy. we often hear today of strong pressure from the governments of some member states, as well as the european commission, to cut or reduce spending on regional policy. but the message of the european parliament in the report i was shadowing is clear. we need a stronger cohesion policy, not a weaker one. we need a real european solidarity.
the european union 2020 strategy is a document that sets the direction for the union's development over the next decade. but if this document is not to share the fate of the lisbon strategy, it must be more realistic and closer to the ambitions of the member states. in this context, the amendments adopted by parliament to the commission's proposals, in particular those relating to the strengthening of the common market, the reduction of protectionism, the continuation of the cohesion policy and support for agriculture, are to be welcomed. however, what still needs to be stressed is the need for a climate-justice policy, one that does not overburden central and eastern european countries into perpetuating their status as the poorest relatives of the european union. finally, i would like to point out that innovation is at the heart of the european union's strategy, but we must also keep in mind the continuation of cohesion policy and support for agriculture, which will enable poorer regions to catch up.
the 2020 strategy sets ambitious targets that are hard to argue with, but they are as specific as if the european union were already rich, free of worries and thinking only of building a prosperous future. however, we know that there are many concerns, and above all, there are many differences in the level of development of rich and poor countries and regions in europe. and i'm surprised that the strategy doesn't include agriculture as a priority, when we know that the world needs to increase food production by 70 percent by 2050, because there are more people on the planet and less land to grow food on. it is difficult to understand why agricultural development is not a priority in the strategy. agriculture is food security, agriculture is environmental security, so important to us and to future generations. i cannot imagine a responsible development strategy for the european union without concern for the development of european agriculture.
the strategy comes at a very bad time, with european industrial production falling to 1990 levels and the eu's gross domestic product falling by 4% last year. but not the moment is the worst thing here. the worst part is that four of the five priorities that have been presented to us as the main driving forces behind europe's development, namely employment, research and development, education and poverty reduction, are hardly european actions. in fact, there are no transnational phenomena in these areas. these matters are handled by the individual countries within their own sphere. it can be said that climate policy is the only area in which european action is permitted. the rest is really up to the individual states.
the economic crisis that has hit our continent has - and rightly so - made it necessary to focus our attention on rescuing the economies of the member states and building a common european buffer against economic collapse. it is understandable that the attention of europeans today is focused on increasing the pace of development and creating new jobs, but we cannot, when building a strategy for the european union, limit ourselves for many years to the economic debate. the european union cannot be anything but an efficient entrepreneur building his company's economic success. the europe 2020 strategy should make a significant reference to the role of culture in achieving the social and economic objectives it sets. these priorities will have an impact on the future budget allocation, and it is therefore necessary to maintain the possibility of financing tasks such as the development of cultural infrastructure and the protection of cultural heritage under the european regional development fund. the european union 2020 strategy should highlight the significant impact of culture on socioeconomic development in the union, as europe is famous for its intellectual capital and creative industries. this is the sector where we can build competitiveness with other parts of the world. creativity needs to be stimulated and developed from an early age, and only then can we expect it to become a major innovation in the fields of modern technologies in the european union. culture cannot be treated in a macho way in european politics. it is not possible to dismiss the fact that it is the competence of the member states to demand that the european union play a greater role in european union policy. europe is proud to have a european capital of culture, for example, but it is a project born of the will of the european cities, which bear the brunt of this spectacular programme. i therefore expect more cultural courage in the european commission's efforts to finalise the 2020 strategy.
the debate on europe 2020 must take account of the experience of the previous strategy. we all know that the failures that followed were due, firstly, to the fact that this strategy was based on the responsibility of the individual countries in the method of open coordination, and the successes were due, among other things, to the fact that it was lisbonised, that is to say that certain lisbon objectives were incorporated into cohesion policy. the question therefore arises as to how to approach the new strategy. it seems absolutely crucial at this point to first make it clear that we are dealing with so-called treaty policies, which are not policies designed for strategic purposes but function in the longer term, as for example cohesion policy. the idea is to integrate policies into the strategy, and the strategy, as previous experience has shown, will only succeed if the policies are integrated. any kind of action that separates policies, that separates funds, that separates actions, will end up with the same failure as the previous strategy. therefore, we need to connect, integrate and create synergies.
the europe 2020 strategy cannot do as many of the things we are talking about here today. you can't do that much with less than 1% of gdp, because that's the budget of the european union. let us show what we can achieve by creating appropriate and modern legal solutions and what tasks we can allocate funds from the eu budget to. let us be clear: there is too little realism in the expectations for the europe 2020 strategy, too many tasks and hopes, and a lack of definition of the role of the member states. increasing employment, reducing poverty, education and above all economic growth are the big tasks and the main priorities that should be pursued in the current situation, when we are in crisis and we should take action to revive the economy because this is the number one problem in the europe 2020 strategy: reviving the economy today.
in writing. in the context of the debate on the effective use of all the european union's research and innovation funds, the issue of adequate promotion of innovative solutions emerging in individual member states should be raised. it is often the case that, because of the poor flow of information, investment is made in research projects that have already been carried out by scientists in one of the countries. this is a waste of eu money which we cannot afford in a time of economic crisis. more emphasis should be placed on improving communication and supporting the purchase of existing new technologies within the european union, which will also allow additional financial support for innovative enterprises. it is also important to finance soft projects such as training and dissemination of knowledge on the importance of innovation for economic growth, better information on available programmes to local actors, and flexibility in the definition of the conditions for granting support, so that countries with currently low levels of innovation can contribute to the european union's competitive advantage on a global scale by developing this sector. it is also necessary to create incentives for investment in local research centres. small and medium-sized enterprises cannot afford them, while large multinational companies do not want to use them, thus deepening the innovation disparities between the eu member states.
first of all, i would like to thank you for the acceptance of my amendment, which invites countries outside the european union to join this forum of dialogue, as the commissioner has said. this will allow us to take advantage of the experience of american universities, which i believe are the best universities in the world, and it would be good if universities could take advantage of this, and at the same time share our experience with other countries, for example, the countries of the former soviet union. but what i think is most important here is to emphasize that in this dialogue between the business world and the university world, we should not forget that the university - the university - is a self-sustaining entity, with the objective of seeking the truth, a selfless search for the truth. this is how universities were founded in italy, in germany, in france, in poland, and i think we should not forget that this is the goal that universities should have today, and that cooperation with business should not limit or diminish this pious work of seeking truth, this selfless search for truth.
this report is consistent with the important objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. i would remind you that in 10 years' time the number of people with higher education is to increase by 10% (from 30% to 40%) and the member states' expenditure on research and development is to increase by 3%. the recipients and implementers of these tasks will be mainly universities. so we should really look at these mechanisms that have worked best in the world. i'm talking about the american partnership solutions: business and universities, how to market all the research results so that often the great scientific achievements don't just sit on the shelves, but are put into practice, and therefore into business. another issue is to effectively implement scholarships and to bring companies into the system. the doctorates should be strongly supported, the european social fund should be used and existing programmes such as marie curie should be used. how can we create clear public partnership schemes, particularly in the areas of technology parks and business incubators? how to get involved in small and medium-sized enterprises, including students? all these things are very important. i think it's important to also invest not only in the technological space, which is important, but also in the humanities system, which should also have its scope of cooperation with public elements and with business. one last note: china today has as many students as the entire european union. so talking about common goals is our common task, and i think that business participation in dialogue will be an effective solution to win the global competition.
the commission's university-enterprise forum, which strengthens cooperation between universities and enterprises to help universities build partnerships that harness scientific and technological knowledge, is the right solution if we want to make europe's economy dynamic and truly competitive. however, i would like to mention a few shortcomings in the commission's proposal. some of the recommendations are too general and leave too much room for interpretation, e.g. the use of the term 'university' for all higher education institutions irrespective of their status. there are no research instruments to identify skills shortages in the labour market. nor is there any education or training system that can reduce these shortcomings. the special situation of those without a university education is not taken into account in the lifelong learning programme. in conclusion, the direction taken towards closer cooperation between universities and enterprises seems to meet the current needs of the market. however, the most important tasks are those of the member states, which must ensure that the ideas proposed are effectively implemented if the intended objectives are to be achieved. (laughter) (applause)
research, scientific advancement, and the education of students are the main tasks of higher education. the lisbon strategy's priorities are, in short, the knowledge-based economy, innovation and research. even if we are not satisfied with the results of this strategy, the objectives set out therein are still valid. what are the forms of achieving the above objectives and objectives? first, cooperation between universities and the economy, specific companies, funding of research, internships by business. secondly, exchange of students, researchers between universities in different countries, increase of funds for scholarships. thirdly, the financing of student traineeships and research contracts by employers. fourthly, the mobility of these people is essential for the full use of the people who are trained. fifthly, the development of research centres in the economic field. and so in closing, i would like to say that the best investment is to invest in the education of the younger generation, which is lifelong learning.
in writing. the dialogue between academia and business aimed at modernising europe's universities should take account of their current state, adapted to the bologna system and the economic challenges of innovation. the bologna system allows considerable flexibility in the profile of the specialist, who at the engineering (bachelor) stage is practically prepared for the profession, at the master's stage can flexibly approach interdisciplinary knowledge of the economy in the developing world, and at the stage of the doctoral thesis introduces innovative solutions. conservative education institutions are putting people into the market who are not fit for the innovation economy. therefore, curricula must be continuously adjusted and coordinated to meet the needs of the different economic sectors. the university's activities are brought closer to the needs of industry by lectures on entrepreneurship and intellectual property. it is useful that theses and doctoral dissertations respond to the requirements of the economy or are directly generated by its needs. this is the best pretext for dialogue between the two worlds of science and business. the likelihood of innovation success could be further shaped if the practical part of this work was carried out directly at the site of its eventual implementation. an important element of university cooperation with the economy is student internships, which are currently reluctant to be organised due to the cost. in turn, universities should provide postgraduate studies on the latest scientific and technical developments for industry.
the commission notes that the decommissioning of the four units of the kozloduy nuclear power plant has certainly caused a very large loss in the bulgarian energy system. this has a significant impact on the security of supply in the region and must lead to increased co2 emissions, which should be important to at least some of the members in this chamber. however, we are being asked, particularly in the amendments, to turn our backs on the energy problems of one of the member states. this is contrary to the principle of solidarity which should govern energy policy. this also gives the impression that parliament is discriminating against nuclear energy, contrary to the principle that member states have full freedom of choice in their energy sources.
as the european parliament's permanent rapporteur on armenia, i would like to stress the need to define a clear and effective european union strategy for the south caucasus. we have high hopes for a free and democratic europe in this region. to do this, we need to be very consistent in supporting the countries in the region and encouraging further free market reforms. in this context, the early conclusion of the negotiation process for a new type of association agreement between the south caucasus countries and the european union will be of fundamental importance. i am convinced that these agreements will provide the region with an impetus for further efforts to introduce democratic standards. the example of georgia shows that such reforms are already having an effect. in the 2010 doing business ranking of the world bank, georgia was ranked 11th, which means that it has moved up 101 places in 4 years. transparency international found that as a result of the reduction of bureaucracy during saakashvili's term, the corruption rate fell by half. the european union should appreciate that president saakashvili has consistently pursued a free market policy and that his reforms have set a good example for the other caucasian states.
it is an important step by the european parliament towards opening the door to clearly european nations such as the georgian and armenian peoples. it's certainly a step, frankly, a step too late. it's a pity it didn't happen two years ago when georgia was the target of russian military intervention. nevertheless, it is a step in the right direction. i hope that this will be filled with concrete political content and that the euronest parliamentary assembly will also play the role of an instrument to support the ambitions of those countries which are clearly european. and finally, i would like to ask that some of us, as loudly as we speak today about the lack of democracy in the countries of this region, speak about the lack of democracy in the country next to these countries, which is russia. so that there's no double standards.
armenia, azerbaijan and georgia are without a doubt european countries, they are without a doubt european nations. these states are members of the council of europe and participate in many international missions, in international cooperation with the countries of the european union. the european union must recognize as one of its foundations the right of all states to self-determination and the right of peoples to decide their own future. we cannot agree on the archaic principle of zones and spheres of influence. i would like to take a few seconds to address the issue of georgia's territorial integrity. it is very good that the union is declaring its support for this. the union is seen not only in the world but also - and most importantly - in these countries as a guarantor of the security of the region. we have to remember that. unfortunately, some of the agreements of 12 august and 8 september 2008 are not implemented. i understand that there are talks in geneva, but perhaps we should bring this fact to the fore in our bilateral talks with the russian federation. the second thing is the visa issue. i agree with commissioner malström who said that this is a way to bring people together and to enable european citizens to travel. it should certainly also apply to georgia, armenia and azerbaijan.
georgia and armenia, as the authors of the report emphasise, are well and dynamically implementing the european strategy, the strategy of the neighbourhood policy. we should respond to this and we should in any case take into account the specificities of the particular countries of the south caucasus. this country-specific strategy should cover transport, environment, culture and society. mr president, there is a lot of talk about frozen conflicts and ethnic problems in the south caucasus. and it's very good that we're talking about it. but the proper response of the european union to the problems of the south caucasus should be to focus on modernising and transforming these countries so that these conflicts do not play such a large role. we often forget in this debate that georgia is just after the war. we're trying to figure out what to do about it. if we want to avoid war in the south caucasus, we must focus on modernisation, because at least georgia, but also armenia and azerbaijan have shown such strong economic growth in recent years that they deserve support. thank you, sir.
the report on the south caucasus is a good report. i would like to emphasize that this report pays particular attention to the role of the european union as a mediator, as a promoter of values, but above all as a promoter of cooperation between the countries of the region. the problems we have to solve are primarily the problems of territorial integrity of these countries, but also their economic strengthening. and that is where we, as the european union, can help these countries. i would like to emphasize that one of the main problems is the unresolved refugee issue. that is what mr posselt was talking about. i think it's a real shame that it can't be solved in this day and age. i think it is a weakness that the report does not refer to the framework convention for the protection of the rights of minorities, although all the countries of the region are signatories to it. thank you very much. thank you.
in writing. the conflicts in the south caucasus have reached a very dangerous point where we have become accustomed to seeing them as intractable conflicts. any efforts made - real or feigned - are only meant to create a kind of negotiating fog, which will certainly not lead to a resolution of conflicts. this concerns the territorial disputes between georgia and russia, and in particular, nagorno-karabakh. in my view, the development of the situation between two countries - armenia and azerbaijan, which are our partners in the eastern partnership and the european neighbourhood policy - is an unacceptable policy of accepting the fact that these conflicts are insoluble. the european union, in consultation with russia, a very important partner in this matter, must bring about a situation in which there is a clear definition of positions. this should be done in particular by sending a clear message to countries that want to join the eu that solving territorial problems and at least partially resolving the refugee issue are essential conditions for serious consideration of membership, whether for the foreseeable future or not. for me, the future and the way of dealing with the nagorno-karabakh conflict is a litmus test of what the parties want to show in european affairs and how they declare their credibility in this area.
i'd like to start by informing you of the difficult situation in poland. in view of the dramatic flood situation in poland, where large parts of the country are flooded and people are losing their life's work, i would like to express on behalf of the european parliament, on behalf of all of us, our support and solidarity with the poles and our sincere sympathy for those who are suffering today. (laughter) (applause) the next session of the european parliament will debate this issue on 16 june 2010. i am sure that the european union will respond in a spirit of solidarity to the polish authorities' request for financial support. we have our european solidarity fund, which is so important in these kinds of natural disasters.
ladies and gentlemen, there was a meeting of the conference of presidents this morning. we finished this conference ten minutes ago. we had a very thorough discussion on the organisation of the voting on the resolutions on the europe 2020 strategy. you know very well that this is a strategy that is supposed to bring jobs to our citizens, prosperity, stability for the whole union for the whole decade. so this is a key strategy for the future of the european union, and also for the future of the world outside the european union, because we can only be strong if we are strong inside. ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the discussions at the conference of presidents, there were arguments for voting today on our resolutions on the europe 2020 strategy, because we would like to have them as soon as possible in order to participate in a responsible way in the discussions with the other european institutions on the subject. but there were also arguments that we need a strategy that we can accept by a huge majority. if we want to influence the situation in the union, we must organize a large majority that supports the resolutions. there is a fear that today there may not be such a majority. so on the one hand, as soon as possible, on the other hand, a strong resolution. we need this. i have decided, in the light of this responsible discussion between the chairmen of our political groups, to ask you to postpone the debate. this is in accordance with rule 140 of our rules of procedure. i repeat, the decision is very important because we realize that we need a resolution quickly, but we need a resolution with a lot of support. and these things are very important.
president schulz would like to speak against this proposal.
- i would also like to thank president daul and president schulz for pointing out that there are floods in other parts of europe today. you are absolutely right, and that is why we must stand in solidarity with all the countries and people of europe who are in danger today.
i am very grateful to the commission for the work it has done in this area, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr brzezinski, for his excellent report. we have catastrophic flooding. thank you very much. thank you.
in writing. − the european single market is an important achievement of european union integration. it offers great opportunities for our citizens and small and medium-sized enterprises. in a report published and presented last week on the strategy and future of the community market, professor mario monti clearly points to citizens and consumers as the main beneficiaries of the single market. he's not always friendly to them. therefore, their concerns should be taken into account as far as possible when working on subsequent draft legislative acts. we should try to make issues such as the recognition of professional qualifications, the proper implementation of the services directive, electronic commerce, small and medium-sized enterprises and consumer protection a priority for the further development of the common market. as professor monti rightly pointed out, there is a certain fatigue in the member states with the community market, but it is precisely now that we need a strong common market more than ever, as the crisis of recent months has shown. i therefore welcome the report by mr grech, on whom i had the opportunity to work and who has been our voice on consumer and citizen issues in the community market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr pál schmitt entitled 'dialogue between universities and enterprises: a new partnership for the modernisation of universities'. i would like to thank the rapporteur, who is no longer a member of the european parliament. i would like to congratulate our colleague on his election to the hungarian parliament and on his election as president of the hungarian parliament. have a good one!
in writing. - i voted in favour of european parliament resolution a7-0108/2010 on academic-business dialogue: a new partnership for the modernisation of higher education in europe (2009/2099 (ini)), because the dynamics of today's labour market, economic development and changing development priorities require cooperation at many levels. higher education across europe is facing a major challenge. it must keep pace with a dynamic world and changing market expectations for new employees. a very important problem today is the mismatch of educational opportunities and levels with market expectations. to maintain this complete inequality of the system is an unacceptable mistake. that is why the changes we need to make must be in the whole area of education and the functioning of young people in the labour market. as a former president of the student parliament of the republic of poland, a statutory institution representing all students in poland, i often meet people who are starting and those who are finishing their studies. awareness of the labour market and its requirements is very low and the level of education is equally unsatisfactory. in political circles, but also in student circles, there is a belief that the number of internships, traineeships, faculties or languages is important. but the market needs quality, not quantity. our efforts to improve cooperation between universities, academia and business are therefore necessary.
in writing. − the main objective of cohesion policy is to achieve a level playing field between regions in the eu. the multiannual programmes and strategies under this policy give regions, especially the poorest, the chance to achieve sustained economic growth, improve competitiveness and create new jobs. more than half of public sector investment is implemented at regional level, and local authorities are therefore becoming the main actors implementing the current lisbon strategy and, in the future, the eu 2020 strategy. we should do our utmost to support the implementation of cohesion policy projects, bearing in mind that the main beneficiaries will often be rural areas, and the partnership approach promoted by the author will allow citizens to be informed efficiently about the objectives and results of the projects.
in writing. - having regard to the positive development of the european union's relations with third countries, i voted in favour of the report on the union for the mediterranean. in order to strengthen cooperation, the barcelona process, which has recently become less active, should be supported. however, the union for the mediterranean summit, scheduled for 7 june 2010 in barcelona, provides an excellent opportunity to put into practice the declarations made so far. the european union cannot afford to lose its importance in this region, with which it has traditional ties. the institutional framework, such as the joint presidency, should be used to step up efforts to promote greater integration of the societies and economies on both sides of the mediterranean.
the author. − as representatives of a community founded on freedom, equality and tolerance, we have a duty to condemn discriminatory practices even if they occur far beyond the borders of the union. the removal of religious minorities from the electoral roll, as happened in 2007 in pakistan, is certainly one of these practices. furthermore, according to article 260 of the constitution of pakistan, citizens are divided into two categories: muslims and non-muslims. recently, the religious affiliation has been included in the passport. the ahmadiyya community is a particularly discriminated group in the country, and the pakistani authorities prevent them from even attending public meetings or publishing. the record of blasphemy and the resulting death sentences also particularly affect religious minorities. the council of the european union should put this issue on the agenda of relations with islamabad as a matter of urgency; finally, thanks to the cooperation agreement between the european union and pakistan signed six years ago for the period 2007-13, the country will receive 200 million euro from the community budget. recent events in pakistan have shown that the country is ready for a profound systemic change. i hope that, as with the long-awaited amendment to the constitution, which has finally been made, it will soon be possible to change other laws that openly discriminate against minorities there.
on behalf of the ecr group. the 2008 elections restored democracy and civilian rule in pakistan, but democracy is not yet stable. while a number of decisions taken by the pakistani authorities on religious freedom are worthy of respect, further action seems to be the need of the hour. enabling religious minorities to work in the federal sector, recognizing their holidays, and establishing a national minority day is a step towards stabilizing and democratizing the country. however, it should be noted that there are still no strictly defined laws protecting minorities, which can lead to such curious situations as the 25-year prison sentence of a christian couple for touching the holy book of the koran with unclean hands. some religious communities continue to be persecuted, and there is concern about the effective implementation of sharia law in rural areas, especially in the north. we should continue to support human rights defenders in pakistan financially and urge the pakistani authorities to fully respect the right of their citizens to religious freedom.
there's an american saying that there's no such thing as a free lunch. but it must be said that it cannot be that the eu's european aid is free, that we give 200 million euros and ask for nothing in return. let's make a claim! let us at least demand respect for similar standards, which are a sure moral, ethical and political guide for us. the situation in pakistan where people of other faiths are being persecuted for years, islam, christians in large part, is absolutely unacceptable. we often discuss the issues of various minorities, not necessarily religious, in europe and the world. let us now defend the christian minority and other religious minorities in pakistan! but this is not the only issue facing this country, which is torn by serious political conflicts and which unfortunately faces the prospect of destabilization.
we welcome the fact that pakistan is involved in the fight against international terrorism, but this cannot overshadow the other, more dramatic, facts which show that there are serious violations of the rights of religious minorities, especially christians, in that country. every now and then, and often, we hear of attacks, beatings, intimidation and even murder, including the burning alive of christians - people, including women and children - simply because they are christians. this information raises the question: why is this happening in a country that plays such an important role in international relations, in the fight against terrorism? and this is because, unfortunately, the pakistani authorities are responsible for creating a climate that is conducive to this through inappropriate blasphemy legislation, through a lack of response to the misconduct of law enforcement and the judiciary in that country. we must also expect a fundamental change in the attitude of the european union and its institutions towards such behaviour.
madam president, the situation in pakistan is dynamic, we are getting conflicting vectors and we need to watch very closely the situation in pakistan so that we don't make a mistake. it is good that the government of pakistan has taken some measures in the interest of religious minorities, such as guaranteeing minorities 5% of public sector jobs. it is good that the government of pakistan has acknowledged, or promised, to grant seats in the senate to minorities, including women representing minority groups. but something has to be done. and the government of pakistan and the authorities in pakistan need to do something about the law that prohibits blasphemy, which carries the death penalty in pakistan and is often used to justify censorship, criminalization, persecution and in some cases the murder of members of political, racial and religious minorities. the pakistani authorities must do something about the penal code which provides for the mandatory death penalty for all those guilty and convicted of blasphemy. in a country supported by the european union in the 21st century, people cannot be killed in this way. thank you very much. thank you.
the author. - the recent events in thailand, a country that until recently was considered the pillar of democracy and stability in the south-east asian region, are the most dramatic in almost half a century. the ongoing fighting between supporters of former prime minister thaksin shinawatra, known as the "red shirts", and the government and army on the other side has left more than 60 people dead, including foreigners and eu nationals, nearly 2,000 injured and the country's capital, bangkok, largely destroyed. of course, we owe the families of the victims our sympathy, condolences and solidarity, but we must also realize that the thai people are very divided today. human rights like freedom of assembly and freedom of speech are severely restricted and it will be very difficult to resolve this conflict peacefully, politically. that is why we need pressure, international pressure, including from the european union, on both sides of the conflict to return to dialogue and to resolve this dispute by political means rather than by violence.
the commission's vice-president - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thailand is going through a tragic phase in its political history. the country, which is known for its economic and social dynamism, is currently experiencing a deep crisis which could threaten its stability if a solution to the current conflict is not found. indeed, this crisis is reaching the very heart of the country; a large part of the population seems to have lost confidence in the institutions that govern them. the government, in turn, is having difficulty implementing the solutions required under the present circumstances. the result is political fragility, which is reflected in violent confrontations and acts of aggression that directly affect human and fundamental rights. the future of the country is uncertain. the european union deplores the loss of human lives, such as that of the italian journalist fabio polenghi, who was killed yesterday morning in clashes between demonstrators and the military. no political or ideological crisis can justify this fact, nor can armed confrontation. the high representative has already called on the parties to the conflict on two occasions to exercise restraint. even a state of emergency cannot give rise to disproportionate measures in terms of fundamental rights and individual expression. these rights are threatened by the disproportionate use of force. in order to avoid any aggravation of the situation, it is essential that the negotiations resume. the commission has taken note of the road map presented by prime minister abhisit. thailand will only emerge from the current crisis if it addresses the deep structural problems. it is essential that the legitimate demands of the disadvantaged sections of society be recognised by all parties concerned in the governance of the country. this is a necessary step towards national reconciliation. it is therefore imperative for thailand to find consensus with all parties on how to move towards a more inclusive society. the european union, as thailand's partner, remains ready to support thailand to the extent of its capabilities in this complex process.
the author. - the situation in burma forces us to deal with the country frequently. today we condemn the intention to hold elections under completely undemocratic conditions and on the basis of rules that excluded the main opposition party and deprived hundreds of thousands of burmese of the right to vote and stand as candidates. this is an obvious attempt to exclude the opposition from the elections. in such circumstances, even the very term 'selection' is inadequate to the reality. we also condemn the fact that under the new constitution the military will be guaranteed at least 25% of the seats in parliament and will have the power to suspend civil liberties and legislative power whenever it deems it necessary for national security. we condemn the continued and systematic violation of human rights, fundamental freedoms and democratic rights of the burmese people, but we also call on the governments of other countries: china, india, russia to use their economic and political pressure on the burmese authorities to bring about change in the country.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 20 may 2010.
i'd like to inform you that there are additional cameramen in the room with special equipment. as in the brussels session, these technicians will film our debates and votes to produce a panoramic video of parliament's activities for the new brussels technician. there'll be a briefing on this in brussels. i have received a firm assurance that the technicians will behave very discreetly in any way that disrupts the proceedings. thank you for understanding this fact. we would like to make the way parliament works known to as many europeans as possible. 70 years ago, on june 17th, 1940, lithuania, latvia and estonia were invaded by the red army and illegally incorporated into the soviet union. this was a direct consequence of the hitler-stalin pact of august 1939, which also gave finland and part of the territories of poland and romania to the ussr. the european parliament, our parliament, was the first international organization to condemn the occupation of the baltic states in its resolution of january 1983, 27 years ago, and to point out that it was not recognized by most european countries and by the united states. let's also remember the first anniversary of the iranian elections, especially since there is a lot of repression. over the past year, the authorities have carried out 488 executions and imprisoned thousands of people. many political prisoners are facing the death penalty because of their alleged role in last year's demonstrations. the european parliament expresses its deep concern at this situation, especially in the context of the lack of freedom of expression and the right to assemble. the european union, and in particular parliament, has consistently opposed the death penalty, whatever the circumstances. today in milan, the funeral of the president of the turkish bishops' conference, bishop luigi padovese, was held. sadly, this is yet another murder of a christian cleric in the middle east. last weekend in lisbon and madrid, i represented the european parliament at the celebrations of the 25th anniversary of the accession of portugal and spain to the european union. both countries have made great progress in the union, and we cannot forget that, even though both countries are today on the verge of difficult economic reforms. we talked about it at the ceremony. i was also in luxembourg yesterday, where we celebrated the 25th anniversary of the schengen agreement. it's one of the most civilized agreements you can make. our citizens understand this perfectly. this agreement was a great boost to the construction of a european union of citizens. in the last two weeks, i have made official visits to greece and romania. i have conveyed my support to the peoples of these countries and assured them that they can count on european solidarity. we also talked about the fact that solidarity should always be accompanied by responsibility. and now for the final piece of information. in the past few days, free parliamentary elections have been held in three european union countries: belgium, the netherlands and slovakia. we wish our colleagues from these three countries a speedy election of governments and we also look forward to the fruitful cooperation of the newly elected colleagues from the national parliaments with us and the european parliament. this is very important for the realisation of our common idea of a common europe.
the next item is the report drawn up on behalf of the committee on budgets by sidonia elżbieta jędrzejewska on the authorisation for tripartite talks on the draft budget for 2011 (2010/2002 ((bud)) (a7-0183/2010).
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? it is an honour to present to you today the mandate for our trilateral negotiations with the european commission and the council, which are due to take place on 30 june. before i go on to present the mandate itself adopted by the committee on budgets, and which i hope will be adopted in our vote in plenary tomorrow, i would like to say a few words about the 2011 budget year because of its particularity. this will be a pioneering year, because the budget of the european union for 2011 will be the first budget adopted under the new provisions of the lisbon treaty. the lisbon treaty strengthens the powers of the european parliament and extends our co-decision powers on the eu budget to areas where we could not previously co-decide fully, such as agriculture. it's a big change in quality. the lisbon treaty also introduces far-reaching procedural changes, notably the abrogation of the first and second readings. we as the european parliament will have one single reading of the budget, just as the council will only read the budget once. what does that mean, practically? this means that we will probably meet again at the conciliation meeting in november, but above all that the new budgetary procedure under the lisbon treaty will require more discipline and greater restraint from all the parties concerned. we won't get a second chance, we won't get a chance to negotiate again. we as the european parliament must think carefully in advance about what we really want to achieve, because we cannot do as we have done in previous years, where we have raised our expectations and lowered them during the second reading. we have to think carefully, even in the first reading, about what we really want to achieve. i would like to thank the rapporteurs for the various committees for their contributions. the committee on budgets has received some very interesting and important opinions from the various thematic committees, which will certainly be taken into account in the next parts of the budgetary procedure. these thanks are primarily personal. i have to thank the authors and tell them that i have learned a lot about the priorities of their respective committees and that this knowledge will hopefully help me a lot as your rapporteur in the autumn when negotiating with the european commission and the council. at the same time, many of these specific requests from the various thematic committees could not be taken into account in my report, which came from the committee on budgets, because the mandate for the tripartite negotiations (those in june) could not be extended. we need to focus on a few key issues, and we can work out the details in september as we go through the amendment process. we can't go into that level of detail in these first negotiations. so please understand that i was against many of the amendments. i would now like to say a few words about these priorities which are the key to our negotiations at the end of june and about the most important issues which i would like to see you support in the vote tomorrow as the issues which the european parliament will put forward. first of all, i would like to mention the most important thing in the first talks with the commission and the council: the current multiannual financial perspective is running out. what was agreed in 2006 is slowly becoming insufficient for the new priorities. we have two parallel, but at the same time, slightly opposite processes. on the one hand, the european union's growing ambitions under the lisbon treaty and our expectations of the european union, such as the establishment of eu diplomacy, ambitious research projects, and on the other hand, the process of economic and financial crisis in individual member states, which is forcing savings. these two opposing processes also face the constraints of the multiannual financial perspective. the margins are running out, and we have less and less room as the european parliament to finance our priorities. it is essential that this be discussed with the european commission and the council as early as june. if we have great ambitions, not only as parliament, but also as the council, we must also talk about how to finance these ambitions. otherwise, they will just be on paper as empty words. i would very much like 2011 to highlight the importance of youth programmes, those that work well, are well known, reach a wide range of beneficiaries and are productive and effective. the next issue is the european external action service, which we have already mentioned, and we must also discuss the budgetary implications of the european financial stability mechanism, which has already been agreed and decided. i would urge you to support this report, which has been drawn up by the committee on budgets. it is summarised in paragraph 91. thank you again for all your contributions. a lot of these cases are coming back in september in the form of amendments.
mr mészáros, it is connected with catch-the-eye. it could have been a question to the last speaker, but you did not have such a question. i am sorry.
mr. chairman, please! first of all, i would like to congratulate the member of parliament, ms sidonia yedriyevska, not so much on the form of the report as on the way in which she worked on it and the conclusions she reached. i would like to highlight a few core values. first, attention has been paid to the revenue side of this budget. secondly, this 2011 budget also gives us the following mandate: the share of fixed expenditure is increasing. in this part, as you said, we have to look at the effectiveness of these expenditures, i.e. what results they produce. we have a very important moment to reflect. what resources will be available to take new initiatives? this degree of freedom of funds for new initiatives is getting smaller. we have to be aware of that, and this discussion reflects that very clearly.
i'd like to start by congratulating sidonia yedreevskaya. i believe that both the report and the process of working on amendments demonstrated the consistency of the commission in adhering to its line while remaining open to comments. with reference to the report, i would like to stress, with regard to section 1b, that while the expected increase in payments is substantial and in line with the multiannual financial framework, given the previous difficulties in implementing the project due to the economic crisis and the expected cumulation of payments of applications from both the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund, the appropriations planned by the commission for 2011 may be insufficient.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank you all for some very clear and concise remarks. as i mentioned at the beginning, i will ensure that all your comments and considerations are transmitted immediately to mr lewandowski. as always, the commission will try to act as an honest broker. we heard in the discussion today how many different wishes there are and how many political priorities you would like to have, so there is no question that this is a difficult exercise. i think it was mr garriga polledo who said that, on the basis of his 16 years of experience, we have probably never had such a difficult situation. the same is true for the member states. it was mentioned that the money will have to be spent wisely. i think it was mr lamassoure who said that it must be better spent. i can assure you that the commission would like to work very closely with the european parliament to ensure that the money that we get is spent as well as possible. thank you for all your input. just a few factual points: mr berman, on behalf of the committee on development, mentioned that development money – and particularly the fast-start money for climate change – should be additional. i am very glad to be able to say that the commission’s fast-start money will be 100% new and additional. that is very important. also, in response to what mr färm was hinting at – the necessity to ensure that this money will be aimed at the most vulnerable and least developed countries – that is also the case with the commission money. i think those were the only factual matters. i will bring the whole wish list and all the priorities, as they have been expressed here, to mr lewandowski.
the rapporteur. - fellow workers! thank you very much for all your comments, thank you for the new impulses and for the kind words. i also thank you for your criticism, because this criticism and your comments on my work and my report will certainly help me to formulate parliament's position as best as possible in the autumn and to ensure that we can get through the negotiations as best we can. in summing up your remarks, i would like to mention a few things. we must look at what is happening with the 2011 budget as the sum of the financial pressures resulting from the priorities that we as parliament have set, but which the member states have also adopted. the fact that the european union, according to the lisbon treaty, is to be an important actor on the international stage, that we have ambitious, huge projects related to galileo, related to fusion - all these are huge, expensive projects that come out of nowhere, and that we are in this situation and not another when it comes to the budget of the european union is precisely because of these new ambitions that have been decided to be realized, and now they have to be financed. for me, as rapporteur for this house, it is unacceptable that the ambitions of the lisbon treaty, which the council is also promoting, should be financed at the expense of the priorities of the european parliament. this can't be happening. we, as the european parliament, must also have the space, the financial capacity to implement the priorities that arise from our work. hence the list of our negotiations for the end of june. one important point: i am pleased that this house has supported my youth priority, which i initiated in the committee on budgets. i would also like to draw your attention to those of you who want this youth priority to go further. the principle is subsidiarity and i would not like us to transfer the tasks of the member states to the european union where this is not necessary. you have to be careful here too. thank you again for all your comments.
on behalf of the s&d group. today we have almost a year of work with two presidencies, fortunately under the same good leadership of mr marinescu, on a draft regulation which would really change the face of rail transport. i wanted to highlight two key things. firstly, we are concerned with competitive rail freight transport. secondly, we want the regulation to have some added value. my group sees this as an opportunity for added value in that we are going to start to create elements of a european railway area, something like the european single rail market, so that we can move from national rail systems to a european system. the basic provisions and solutions that led us to endorse it are, firstly, the one-stop shop as a convenient concept for the customer. secondly, we want to create nine corridors in the continental system, which for the first time is a chance to cross national borders, including all the countries concerned. and thirdly, we're talking about the opportunity to increase interoperability. what is the source of the railway disaster? very low interoperability. fourthly, we have created the conditions for identifying strategic investment needs within five years. finally, there should be a timetable, so that we do not put it off indefinitely, and there should be an institutionally unified way of managing each transport corridor. these are the points that have led us to support and perhaps they will be promising if these pessimistic assessments of mr grosch are not fulfilled, that is if the railway wants to be a business and an industry.
madam president! analysis of the european parliament and council regulation on a rail network for competitive freight transport shows how challenging it was to reach agreement on such a difficult and politically charged issue. unfortunately, however, there are still provisions in that regulation which are controversial to me, both in terms of the competitiveness of rail transport and the independence of the management of the railway infrastructure manager. i refer to those provisions, in particular the new paragraph of article 12, which confer the right to grant capacity to a corridor 'one-stop shop', thereby infringing the exclusive right of the manager in that regard and limiting his independence. i also find the proposal in paragraph 3 to have the manager inform the applicant of the allocation of other works to a 'full service point' which will reply to the applicant very controversial. the possibility of submitting a negative response via a 'full service' point will undoubtedly bureaucratize and delay the train route allocation process, while reducing the flexibility to respond to the changing needs of carriers. this can clearly undermine the competitiveness of rail transport. the provisions of paragraph 4 are also highly questionable, since they infringe the principle of commercial confidentiality, which, instead of ensuring transparency in the operation of the 'one stop shop', may become a tool for combating competition through the use of unfair practices.
on paper. one of the european union's greatest achievements, the free movement of people, and ongoing immigration, despite its merits, also has a dark side, the increase in crime committed by foreigners. when the suspect is a foreigner, language barriers pose a significant problem for the smooth conduct of criminal proceedings. if judgments are to be unconditionally recognised by the other member states, minimum procedural guarantees should be provided in each country. the right to be informed of the charges in one's own language is undoubtedly one of the fundamental elements of the right of defence, without which there can be no question of a fair trial. the draft directive on translation in criminal proceedings thus fulfils its role here, irrespective of the fact that the relevant rules are already in force in the eu member states. i am very pleased that, through a compromise between parliament, the council and the commission, parliament has finally abandoned many unreasonable requirements which could paralyse criminal proceedings, especially in simpler cases. i am convinced that the draft directive as it stands will help to build trust between the judicial systems of the member states of the union, while respecting the different legal traditions of the member states.
madam president! the internet of things is part of the digital agenda. one of the main objectives of this agenda is to bring universal access to the internet and to combat digital exclusion. unfortunately, there are very big differences in europe today in terms of access to the internet. poland lags behind many european countries: only 13% of households have broadband access. that is why it is so important for us to set up a digital agenda to bring universal access to the web by 2013. when we talk about the internet of things, we have to be careful not to exacerbate the disparities that already exist in terms of access to the internet. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. some people who are just entering the world of the internet will be very different from those who are already using the new technologies, very well versed in their world and know how to use it. that is why, when we talk about the internet of things, we must bear in mind the challenge it poses to the european commission, precisely to avoid the gap in access to the digital agenda widening.
i'd like to congratulate you on your report. one of the key things is, of course, the digital agenda, which in the next few years will make it possible for every european to have broadband access. and the subjectivity is a classic issue here. participation in the icann component must be partnership-based. so i think this reform should make the european union a fully-fledged partner that can influence the functioning of this institution. of course, the key principles are freedom on the internet and fundamental rights. but let's keep the most important things in mind, especially the protection of minors. the issue of online gambling will also be discussed in parallel. there will also be many questions about what data can be filtered, taking into account, of course, fundamental rights and what member state governments will want to control in their own sphere. but the most important thing is that the european union is actually treated as an entity in icann and has a partnership in the principles that govern this organization.
i would like to ask you: how can we stimulate entrepreneurship in times of crisis? how to stimulate the growth of smes? how, for example, can we stimulate economic activity if this place - the european parliament - is the place where we introduce new rules that restrict this entrepreneurship? after all, if people want to start their own business, including transport, they should have the right to do so. we cannot treat them as entrepreneurs on the one hand and say that they must meet the same criteria as workers on the other. we can do the same thing for someone who runs a restaurant, alone and with their family, or for someone who runs a store. we don't have to confuse the two. there is a certain surplus of legislation, and the european parliament is also contributing to this. i know that the best regulations on business in poland we had in the early 90s. now we've increased the amount of these regulatory burdens, and it turns out that this is met with criticism. who's that? the people who run the business. i support what mrs bauer says, but i am not going to go into the issues that have arisen in the negotiation of this compromise.
the harmonization of labelling and mutual recognition of foodstuffs is of great importance for the internal market. currently, additional national rules and different interpretations of existing community rules on food products by individual member states are a source of obstacles to trade, the flow of goods and competition problems. i am concerned about the provisions on the obligation to provide information on the country of origin of products of specific categories. in my view, this is an expression of the protectionist attitudes of the member states, which is contrary to the idea of a common market eliminating significant barriers and obstacles to the movement of goods. therefore, in the interests of consumers, i believe that information on the country of origin of products should be provided on a voluntary basis and in cases where the lack of such information could mislead the consumer as to the actual origin of the product. i believe that this approach is balanced between the interests of consumers and the interests of food producers. during the debate on the commission regulation and the rapporteur's report, the issue of a balanced diet and nutritional habits of the european union's population was raised on several occasions. in my view, food labelling is just one of many aspects of informing consumers about good nutrition. it can complement public knowledge on healthy lifestyles, for example through campaigns and educational activities, but it cannot replace it. i am therefore opposed to the introduction of colour labelling which could have a lasting impact on food habits. finally, it is not possible and not permitted in our social order to introduce rules under which citizens are not held accountable for their own conduct and choices.
mr. chairman, please! it's not every day that we have to debate legislation that has such a strong appeal to our constituents. a clear label on a food product is known to influence consumer decisions and, in addition, to encourage producers to promote healthy food. one of the issues that has come up in the legislative process and in our discussion is that of food origin information. the country of production of the article must be indicated on the labels, including for processed food. in the latter case, this will certainly be more difficult, but i think it is a good idea to include information on the origin of the main ingredient of the processed food. information on the alcoholic content is also important. i agree that information on the ingredients and nutritional value of alcoholic beverages should be available on the packaging. the consumer should know whether the vodka he is buying is made and produced from grain, potatoes or perhaps bananas. no one in this room is questioning the need for change and more comprehensive legislation. i hope we all agree that it should also be geared to the expectations of european consumers, while taking account of the possibilities of small and medium-sized enterprises in the food sector.
in writing. the report on the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the provision of food information to consumers, which will be voted on today in the european parliament's plenary session, is another step towards enabling consumers to obtain the necessary information about a product and thus make an informed decision on its purchase. under this act, the union will introduce a food labelling system which will become applicable in all member states. this is an example of good legislation that brings order to the current system of seven directives and one regulation. the harmonisation of rules at european level will ensure the proper functioning of the common market by enabling consumers to make informed choices, while ensuring legal protection for producers. the many different labelling systems for foodstuffs only create unnecessary doubts for consumers when they make a purchase, and the information given is often unclear or not displayed clearly enough on the packaging. this is particularly important in view of the obesity epidemic in europe. the renate sommer report is intended to change this situation and i shall therefore vote in favour of it.
the next item is the vote. (results and other voting details: see minutes)
we shall now proceed to the election of the vice-president of the european parliament in accordance with rules 13, 15 and 18 of our rules of procedure. as you know, one of our colleagues, who was the 11th vice-president, was elected to the national parliament and is the president of that parliament. this is our colleague mr. schmitt. we're electing a new vice president to take his place today. i have received the following nomination: colleague lászló tőkés. the candidate has officially informed me that he agrees to run. given that there is only one candidate, i propose that he be elected by acclamation in accordance with rule 13 (1) of the ep's rules of procedure. i'd like to ask if there's no objection from any of you. it's my duty under this article.
my colleague disagrees with this choice, so we'll have a formal vote. we'll be voting through the electronic system.
we'll be voting electronically. when the voting is opened, the following information will be displayed on the screen: the subject of the vote and the name of the candidate. to vote for the candidate, you must press the + button. of course, you can also abstain from the , that's the 0 button, as you know. so it's all very simple. under rule 15 of the rules of procedure, the candidate who receives an absolute majority of the votes cast is elected, which means that only votes in favour are taken into account.
that's exactly what i said just now. those who want to vote yes, press the yes button, those who want to vote no, press the no, those who abstain, press the 0 button.
the answer is clear: we only respond to the yes vote in this vote, and the no or abstention votes are counted together, because only the number of yes votes cast counts. the case is clear. if we press the "i" button or the "pause" button, it's the same result. now i'm going to answer three more questions.
i call the vote. (by electronic vote (621 votes in favour, 334 against, 287 abstentions), lászló tőké was elected by parliament) our vice president has a qualified majority. i would like to congratulate our colleague lászló tőkése on the result of the vote for vice-president of parliament and wish him well in his term of office. mr. vice president tőkés will be ranked 11th among the vice presidents.
ladies and gentlemen, any reservations about the vote will be taken in a special way after the vote. now we're not gonna settle this thing on the spot. according to the results of the vote, which we obtained by a qualified majority, vice-president tőkés was elected by us. all your objections will be taken into account. i'd like to have them report to me today. we'll decide on that tomorrow. i'll give you a direct answer to those objections. thank you very much.
my name is senishin. however, these explanations are completely unsatisfactory, given that we were informed before the vote that the votes against and abstentions are counted equally, which is in line with the qualified majority requirement. because what does a qualified majority mean? that means the votes for must exceed the sum of the votes against and abstentions. in this case, we have no clarity at all as to what the vote was. chairman buzek said there were 334 votes in favour, 287 against and 168 abstentions. so it does look like 789 people voted, and at this point, the translation of some votes not counting could also mean that any of those 334 votes for voting is not counting. this is an absolutely unacceptable situation, in terms of the definition in most countries. i do not think it is any different in our parliament. a qualified majority, an absolute majority, is a majority of votes in favour over votes against and abstentions. in this case, there was no such situation at all, because the wrong number of votes was cast. it means that the voting machine has malfunctioned and the vote must be repeated.
mr. chairman, please! i was among the 334 meps who supported pastor lászló tőkéš as vice-president of the european parliament. he's the hero of my youth. as a solidarity journalist in 1989, i covered the romanian revolution under the bullets of the ceauşescu securitate, and this revolution began in timişoara with the speech of lászló tőké on december 16, 1989. but it pains me that he is the victim today, first of a computer error that miscalculated 168 votes, and then those 168 votes were added by the moderator to the general pool, which caused a general controversy. therefore, if it were to happen that anyone raised the legitimacy of the election of lászló tőkéš as vice-president of parliament, i would be in favour of repeating this vote. i'm sure his score will be even better. the mandate of such a distinguished person in the european parliament cannot be called into question by anyone. so i think it's in the best interest of the individual concerned, if anyone has any doubts, to have a second vote.
in writing. - i welcome the efforts of the commission and parliament to make regional policy and its financing transparent. this is a sector that consumes a fifth of the eu budget, so taxpayers have the right and should have unlimited access to know how their money is being spent. i would also like to express the hope that the actions undertaken will lead to the creation of new regulations, inspired by the observation of published data, which will make the implementation procedures more transparent and simpler.
in writing. − financial transparency of public institutions is one of the foundations of modern democracy. citizens need to know how each euro is spent it comes from their taxes. it is no secret that the european transparency initiative, adopted by the european commission in 2005, is beginning to bear fruit. i accept it with pleasure. on the other hand, there's still a lot to do. i regret to note that the standards of transparency in the european commission's implementation of regional policy are lower than those of other institutions, with the european investment bank at the forefront. there is no reason for this to continue. i share the resolution's satisfaction at the progress made in the area of social control over the distribution of funds for the implementation of regional policy objectives. i also welcome the emphasis in the resolution on the role of civil society institutions in the cohesion policy programming system. i believe that the solutions proposed in the resolution will contribute to making the programmes more effective and to making the eu's cohesion policy more legitimate. in view of these elements, i have decided to support this resolution.
in writing. - i am convinced that the idea of a european rail network for competitive freight transport is both right and necessary. however, there are serious doubts about the interpretation of article 12 (2a) which provides for the creation of a 'one-stop shop'. specific reservations concern the powers to decide on the use of individual railway networks. the situation is further complicated by the fact that some of the community member states have not yet liberalised access to their railway market. in light of the above, i voted against the second part of the 83rd amendment.
in writing. − this second round of amendments brings to an end the long process of adapting the european parliament's rules of procedure to the changes introduced by the treaty of lisbon. while the amendments voted today are less about the fundamental treaty changes that have empowered parliament in its decision-making, they are an important complement to the changes to the rules of procedure that will allow us to take full advantage of the new opportunities. as with any change, and especially as important as a change in the basic law, a lot depends on how it is implemented. the devil is in the details, which is why it's so important to keep this process going all the way to the end.
in writing. − the report on the authorisation of the trilogue on the 2011 draft budget, adopted today by the european parliament's plenary session, identifies six priorities for the 2011 budget negotiations. one of these is the youth programmes such as 'youth on the move', 'lifelong learning', 'youth in action' and erasmus mundus. the report notes in paragraph 12 of the general remarks that the increase in the draft budget for these programmes, despite the very high rate of utilisation so far (between 95-100% per year in the period 2007-09), is insufficient. i welcome the fact that the text adopted calls for an increase in these funds so that youth programmes can be implemented in a way that is appropriate to their importance for civil society in europe. despite the economic crisis, which has forced member states to make significant savings, the european union is increasingly broadening its scope of action, but this must be done while ensuring that the level of funding for existing programmes is adequate. the report by sidonia jędrzewska draws attention to this issue, which i believe has rightly been identified as one of the priorities for budgetary negotiations.
in writing. − the report on the challenges facing the european union's innovation policy is a very good document, which addresses the key issues related to this issue. like my colleagues in the s&d group, i voted in favour of the report, including amendment no 46 calling on the commission and the member states to coordinate their efforts towards an agreement on the eu patent and a unitary patent jurisdiction. this case has been going on for many years, and for many years the same arguments in favour of a common patent and the same issues have been repeated (e.g. how many languages should european patents be translated into?). since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, certain legal issues have been clarified. we will have two regulations: one on the patent itself, the other on the language system. however, there is also the issue of a patent court, the establishment of which will require the regulation of the relationship between the eu and the epo (european patent organisation) in a way that remains consistent with the competences of the eu institutions, including the european parliament. without going into the details of the patent system, which will certainly be the subject of much discussion, i would like to stress that this issue is one of the most important challenges of the current term of office of the european parliament. i therefore believe that we should at all times call on the other institutions to cooperate constructively in this area, as mr winkler's report does.
in writing. - without continuous innovation, there is no chance of development. the need for innovation is present in every area of the economy and society. from advanced medical treatments to ever-faster ways of communicating, from innovative ideas in industry and science to new, alternative methods of energy production. this is particularly important in the face of the global economic crisis and the ageing of the population. i would point out that, in addition to the transversal nature of this policy, the citizens' initiative is also important. innovation by small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as by farms, is an integral part of creating a competitive economy. while we are concerned about rapid economic growth and environmental protection, we must not forget about people and social inequalities, which can be exacerbated at the expense of development.
in writing. − in view of the commitments of the european union countries and in line with the provisions of the lisbon treaty, i have decided to vote in favour of the report on progress towards the millennium development goals: mid-term review in preparation for the un high level meeting in september 2010. the european union, the world's largest donor of development aid, should take action to achieve eu priorities such as reducing and combating poverty. the european council, meeting in june 2010, a few months before the un high-level meeting on the millennium development goals, is therefore expected to adopt a unified position on this issue. we need to have a coherent response to the threats in developing countries, such as poverty and hunger, health and education.
the next item is the question to the president of the commission.
president of the commission. − of course i can give you all the guarantees on the part of the commission that we will try to ensure that the scheme is properly administered. but once again the clearance of accounts procedure is an initiative procedure which includes several steps ensuring the member states' right of defence, as well as the opportunity for conciliation by an independent body. and now we have to engage with this in a serious, objective manner.
president of the commission. − the task force was created in the specific context of support for greece and, as you know, the commission is participating in the task force in a fully constructive and loyal way. in fact the task force was established by the president of the european council in cooperation with the commission. the commission is participating in the task force and i am happy with the way that work is progressing in the task force. there is a consensus emerging on steps towards economic coordination in europe, and most of those steps are completely in line with the proposals made by our communication of 12 may. so may i say that this task force is performing an important task, because they have addressed important points like the implementation of the stability and growth pact and the european semester. i am looking forward to the report of the president of the european council to the european council on thursday. the commission will of course not abdicate from its right of initiative and will present further proposals, building also on the consensus emerging in that task force.
we know how difficult the economic and financial situation is in some of the member states, and how this affects the emotions of the people, not just in those countries, and the decisions taken by individual governments. you recently spoke, mr president, of the need to defend the unity of the european union and to maintain its integration within the 27 member states. i would like to ask you how you intend to defend this position in a situation where the pressure is growing to develop new solutions, such as the idea of creating a european economic office, which would lead to closer economic coordination in the euro area. what guarantees can you give us that countries which are making a great effort to catch up will not be relegated to the second league of the european union?
president of the commission. − the european institutions, together with member states, will do their best to have something that is more credible in terms of the implementation of the stability and growth pact. it is quite obvious that there were problems in terms of implementation and non-compliance by some of the member states with the rules that they themselves had agreed. already now, some limitations and even sanctions are possible under the current treaties and without new reforms. in the future we want to have that in an objective manner. we are looking for ways of improving the credibility of the pact in a fair way, so that the measures can be implemented objectively, irrespective of the country’s status as one the richest or poorest member states. i believe it is in the interests of all of us to have a more credible way of implementing the stability and growth pact.
that concludes question hour with the president of the european commission.
the next item is the debate on:– the oral question to the commission on credit rating agencies by nikolaos chountis and jürgen klute, on behalf of the gue/ngl group (o-0051/2010 – b7-0302/2010),– the oral question to the commission on credit rating agencies by udo bullmann, on behalf of the s&d group (o-0072/2010 – b7-0309/2010),– the oral question to the commission on credit rating agencies by jean-paul gauzès, on behalf of the ppe group (o-0077/2010 – b7-0312/2010), and– the oral question to the commission on credit rating agencies by sylvie goulard, on behalf of the alde group (o-0078/2010 – b7-0313/2010).
on behalf of the ecr group. the budgetary perspective for 2007-13 adopted by the european parliament in 2006 is undoubtedly a success for the community as a whole. i call it a success because the six-year financial framework is another step towards the increasing integration of the individual member states. i do not need to remind you of the importance of cohesion policy, especially in the internal affairs of the european union, which has made a major contribution to raising living standards, especially in the 12 newly admitted member states. of course, we must not forget the funds allocated to developing the competitiveness of the european economy and the financial resources allocated to agriculture. recently, there has been increasing talk of more money being spent on, among other things, boosting innovation and developing green technologies. these are undoubtedly important issues for the union economy, especially in times of crisis. however, such announcements are of the utmost concern to countries such as poland, as there is a real risk of a reduction in the funding for cohesion policy, which is the foundation of the european union. it is therefore essential that the union's policy should not lose sight of what is most important. respecting and understanding the differences between regions, all efforts must be made to eliminate the negative contrasts and the glaring social disparities. only a europe of equal opportunities will be respected internationally and become a partner of value to the major political and economic powers of the modern world. i therefore ask the question: could the revision of the multiannual financial framework, in the light of the current financial and economic difficulties, be designed to violate the basic principle of european solidarity and to hit the countries with the shortest presence in the union's structures?
member of the commission. − in the past we have tried a policy of engagement and we have tried a policy of isolation, and, frankly, none of these policies worked perfectly; nor did they achieve what we wanted in the relationship with belarus. what we are trying to do now is set up a basis for what i would call critical engagement. the commission is working on the joint interim plan, which i would describe as a framework for both good and bad weather in the relationship between the european union and belarus. it provides a framework for the steps towards democratisation and gradual engagement from the european union side. it will be shared with the european council and, of course, with the european parliament, and i strongly believe that this is the most proper answer to the violations of human rights we witness in belarus.
i'm not going to let you do this. i wanted to thank you for the information, but i have two things to report. first, since you are planning to visit belarus in the near future, our special request concerns national minorities. the situation there is that belarusian citizens are often people of very different nationalities. the problem concerns the treatment of belarusian citizens of polish nationality. secondly, i would ask that in all these activities, greater emphasis be placed on the creation of scholarships for belarusian youth, because this is the most important direction today.
in writing. the principle of gender equality is not effectively implemented. according to spanish mep elena valenciano, cows are better protected in the eu than women. we are discriminated against in every area of life. we earn 18 percent less than men, we're more likely to be unemployed, we're underrepresented in politics, in public life, in business. the most embarrassing thing is that women are not even allowed to enjoy their basic rights. the right to life and personal integrity and reproductive rights are much more frequently violated than for women. in poland, for example, restrictions on women's human rights are tolerated. in 1997, the president of the constitutional court, in justifying the rejection of the liberalization of the right to abortion, took it for granted that a pregnant woman must be deprived of some of her civil rights. not only did it not end his career, but it strengthened his position as a "moral authority". gender issues must be reflected in the eu budget. the economic crisis must not limit the efforts to promote equality between women and men. only a consistent, long-term policy strategy can bring results. promoting gender equality and anti-discrimination legislation is not enough. the law does not automatically generate equality. it's a work in progress. building social awareness and solidarity among women. improving the situation of women requires combating stereotypes and discriminatory practices and eliminating male chauvinists from public life.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the situation of women in the labour market was not satisfactory before the crisis. but it has improved despite some difficult and still unresolved issues, such as pay disparities for the same job or underrepresentation in business in senior management. we need to talk about these positive trends. the commission's report shows that since 1995, the contribution of women to eu economic growth has increased by a quarter, and the employment rate has increased by 7.1% over the last 10 years to 59.1%. as a result of the crisis, the unemployment rate among women is rising faster than among men. women are primarily employed in the public sector and are therefore directly exposed to the employment reduction resulting from austerity policies. the anti-crisis mechanisms in place are aimed at the rapid reintegration into the labour market of those who have lost their jobs as a direct result of the crisis, leaving the permanently inactive behind for a while. forced by personal circumstances, women are now more likely to take up part-time work and work in precarious conditions. in view of all these risks, let us try to apply horizontal solutions to maintain employment levels before the crisis and to prevent a downward trend.
on behalf of the s&d group. the proposed regulations on research for the welfare of the baltic sea introduced an important element, namely the strategic planning stage. without this stage, we would only be dealing with the extensive development of these studies. so it's a broader plan of action, a better strategy, which, beyond the sea itself, takes into account the sea basin, which is currently, as we know, flooded. special attention shall be paid to the selection of experts. the large-scale studies proposed do not amount to phenomena that can be reproduced in the laboratory. here, the survey is closely linked to the areas under the jurisdiction of the country concerned. the eu law must therefore be reconciled with national laws. the selection of independent experts by the committees should take this into account. increasing the research capacity of the new member states in the baltic sea region should take into account that, firstly, the research potential in these countries is diverse and generally good human resources are accompanied by weaker laboratory capacity. the limitation of 25% of the contribution of the material to the common pool is therefore surprising. secondly, the so-called common pot is unacceptable to many countries, both for legal reasons and because it could have a negative impact on the research plans already under way there. thirdly, the strategic phase of the programme requires time. this stage should be better used in terms of substance. the research priorities for the baltic sea and its water catchment areas must therefore be defined first, and then the project participants must invest in adapting their research workshops to meet them. the main issue is the inclusion of russia in the study on the basis of the eastern partnership as an equal partner.
mr. chairman, please! i fully support the creation of a joint research and development programme for the baltic sea bonus. i am convinced that the establishment of a consolidated transnational research programme based on cross-border cooperation and the exchange of experience will contribute to more effective action for the protection of the baltic sea and lead to sustainable development of the region. the bonus programme was initiated by 8 member states. the baltic environment includes another country, russia. it is therefore justified that russian scientists should participate in this programme. this research programme should provide a set of proposals for the union's strategy for the baltic sea region and the role of the macro-regions in future cohesion policy, which we discussed in parliament two months ago. it is a pity that we could not afford to discuss openly and determine the consequences and the danger to this sea of construction and exploitation . . . (the president cut the speaker off)
thank you very much, mr. chairman, for including my vote. i would like to say that today's research on the whole baltic sea sector should be seen through the lens of the great territorial cohesion of the whole european union. today we are focusing on a number of equally important strategies: the baltic sea, the mediterranean or the danube. but we must remember that these areas must be linked. the main trade in goods is currently with indochina and it is therefore important to focus on the baltic sea strategy to also take into account the possibility of links in the tnt 'north-south' network. fortunately, this strategy is now publicly available and i hope that the baltic sea area will also be coherently connected to southern europe via the tnt network based on several parallel solutions.
on behalf of the ecr group. romania and bulgaria adopted the schengen acquis when they joined the european union in 2007. we are now delighted to be discussing the draft council decision on the application of the acquis in the two newest member states of the european union, which is one of the last steps towards the abolition of internal border controls in bulgaria and romania. both countries have received positive assessments from the commission assessing their readiness to abolish controls at the internal borders of the european union, and the identified shortcomings should and will be addressed swiftly. if this happens, bulgaria and romania can be expected to be technically ready to join the so-called sis ii by october 2010, i.e. in accordance with the current roadmap. this will allow the schengen area to be opened up to two new states while maintaining due regard for the security and interests of citizens.
mr. chairman, please! the benefits of the schengen agreement are enjoyed by europeans. it facilitates the real free movement of people, the development of tourism, the growth of trade. this is our pride and our great achievement in the european union. but to do so, we need the right technical infrastructure to monitor these processes. we know from our own experience that it is the task and duty of the countries acceding to the schengen agreement to fulfil the requirements which are linked to the schengen information system. this is for our common good, for our common safety. standards in this area must be respected.
i would like to thank mr coelho, who is our parliamentary expert on schengen, and has indeed done a great deal of work in this area too. first, it welcomes the fact that the schengen working group in the council has assessed the proposals of bulgaria and romania positively, and that these countries have eliminated all the problems necessary to achieve this important aspect. i think that the most important thing is of course the protection of the external borders and i think that we will also be working in parallel on the sis ii system and biometrics, which is defined. this is, of course, the song of the future, but let us nevertheless remember that this process is ahead of us. i would like to wish our friends in bulgaria and romania what we experienced with the czechs and other countries two years ago, also in my country - poland - where we symbolically abolished the flags and schengen became a fact. it really changes the cohesion of the union and the historical approach to bringing the old and the new union together. i also wish bulgaria and romania to meet all the necessary requirements at this early stage, and i also wish the commissioner to speed up this work ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr. chairman, please! there's one good thing about this late-night debate. we don't discuss it during the world series, so we have time for it. but seriously, we have the lisbon treaty, which obliges us to take very serious action in a situation that is bad and that for years has not been resolved. we are in the midst of a world cup to be held in poland and ukraine in two years' time, and i am very pleased with the decision taken by mr beleta, mrs pack and the commissioner, who has been so active in this area that it is necessary to harmonize legislation in this area. the system is actually opaque and burdened with generational corruption. the trade in young players is on a massive scale. there are many situations where funds are shared, including after transfers and high leverage. the transfer fee is so high that it sometimes causes clubs to become indebted. a new code is therefore needed . . . (the president cut the speaker off)
the next item is the joint debate on: statements by the council and the european commission on the preparations for the european council summit (17 june 2010), statement by the commission on the preparations for the g20 summit (26-27 june 2010).
the agenda for tomorrow's european council included a further discussion of the commission's europe 2020 strategy. the council will also consider the competitive project 'europe 2030: challenges and opportunities' developed by the so-called 'reflection group', the group of wise men. the european parliament has repeatedly expressed its reservations about the objectives and means of implementing the 2020 strategy. i have personally drawn the commission's attention to the fact that this programme must not lead to a reduction in the financial resources allocated to the new member states, including poland. the europe 2030 document, the so-called council of wise men, has not been presented to this house before. i believe that the vote of members of the european parliament should mean more than the opinion of an informal group, notarized by no one and without a democratic mandate. in the context of the great flowering of projects on europe such as 2020 or 2030, i propose that our parliament should not be left behind and develop its own europe 2050 strategy.
madam president! the free market is a great value. when there are no regulations to ensure that it functions properly and no institutions to enforce those regulations, then there is a problem and an inevitable crisis. and you can see this clearly today in europe, and you can see it in the world in the context of the banking sector, where there is a lack of regulation and a lack of accountability. for a free market to function well, institutions are needed that safeguard the basic principles and trust that must be the key to functioning in the realm of trade. without it, the consequences will be very sad. as for the 2020 strategy, it is worth noting that there is still no analysis of the failure of the lisbon strategy, which was adopted with great fanfare 10 years ago. now, without thinking, a new strategy is adopted. this is a mistake. it seems that this analysis should be carried out so that the failed experiments of the 2020 strategy are not repeated, as happened to the lisbon strategy, which many welcomed with great hope of a great european success. more regulation, more accountability and opportunities for trust in the free market that is what europe needs today.
madam president! the council of the european union is taking place at a crucial moment and is of vital importance. we need a deep reform of the governance system at the level of the union of 27, not just the zone 16 (the eurozone). we have more in common than a common currency. we need to strengthen economic governance in the union. the key word here is the communitisation of economic policy, i.e. the strengthening of the european commission's role in economic coordination in the ex ante analysis of national budgets and the role of the european parliament in the democratic control of european economic governance. we must avoid a division of europe into the elite club of the eurozone and the rest, while maintaining economic integration within the 27 countries. we cannot afford a two-speed europe. countries outside but entering the euro area generally have healthier public finances and higher growth potential. they can make a significant contribution to the development of the union economy as a whole. i remind you that in the worst times of the crisis, poland was the only green island on the red map of europe the only country that recorded economic growth at that time. we should learn from the shortcomings of the current stabilisation and development pact. a system of sanctions that is only about embarrassing some countries simply does not work. we need an effective and fair system of sanctions for all countries and a reinforcement of the preventive action of the pact. the solution is to run forward. in the face of the crisis, we need more europe.
i think, commissioner, that all the member states should be involved in this process of combating the crisis, and the community method, which we talk about so much, has its value, and we should not create new entities, new institutions. the european commission has a full mandate to become the body that coordinates the policy of combating the crisis. at the same time, we should note that this enhanced method of coordination should also lead to solutions which do not introduce redundant legislation. we had an example yesterday when we wanted to include entrepreneurs in the same system as transport workers. such solutions do not serve to strengthen the way out of the crisis. at the same time, i would like to draw attention to subsidiarity, to the inclusion of the national parliaments of the member states in this debate, so that they feel partly responsible for this process of bringing the european union as a whole out of the crisis.
in writing. the european council will once again discuss the strategy for growth and jobs, the fight against the crisis - the europe 2020 strategy. these issues need to be discussed together because they are interlinked in the short, medium and long term. it is worthwhile to identify some of the causes of the difficult situation and to suggest corrective actions. we have failed to comply with the stability and growth pact. the question is, where were the institutions, the people responsible for oversight and monitoring? the european union does not have a fully-fledged single market the countries of the monetary union are very diverse, they lack a single financial policy and the economic union is in tatters. the eu must be more assertive in creating market regulation, including banking and financial regulation. aid granted to financial institutions and banks must be repaid and redirected towards development objectives. the eu budget should be based on a number of different sources of funding, including the so-called financial transaction tax. the eu 's competitiveness vis-à-vis third countries should be based on standards in europe . a community economic governance mechanism should be established for the 27 member states, to be implemented by the commission according to the principles laid down by the council and parliament. community action should be extended to ensure that national budgets are consistent with and complement the eu budget. the ecb must strengthen its common monetary policy vis-à-vis the euro area countries. the commission will also continue to work on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the financial interests of the union.
moscow has realized that without modernising its wide access to western technologies, it has no chance of approaching the european average in development. the european union should take advantage of this. but that is not the case, as the rather poor outcome of the eu-russia summit in rostov-on-don shows. it will always be so, as long as the union does not risk taking a hard line in its negotiations with russia on values and principles. it is therefore necessary to make it clear that a binding human rights clause should be included in the new partnership and cooperation agreement between russia and the union and to make it clear that there is no modernisation of russia without its democratisation. the resolution should therefore deplore the lack of reaction by the european union representatives attending the summit to the police brutality in moscow and st petersburg on 31 may. it is not enough in this parliament to applaud the memorandum and to give the sakharov prize, but we must also defend certain values in action. (laughter)
it's very good that we're talking to russia. we must have a dialogue with russia and all reasonable people will support this, and the european parliament will also support dialogue with russia. russia is changing, or at least we hope it is. we hope that there will be - as president medvedev said - a rule of law, that european union entrepreneurs who invest in russia or trade with russia will be able to count on the legal conditions in russia to help them do so, not hinder them. unfortunately, there have been many cases of trouble, legal problems in russia. we must remember and remind russia of this when we talk to her. we are of course glad that russia is cooperating with the european union countries, with the international community, with nato, with the united states, with the un in the field of counterterrorism, for world security, but of course we are worried that not all things are being done - not all things in russia's relations with its neighbours. we are concerned that there are still politicians in russia who are thinking about rebuilding the russian empire. the georgian case in particular requires our intervention and constant reminder.
madam president! the union's relations with russia must be like a two-way street. it is clear that we are giving russia the necessary know-how (knowledge of technological development), while they have to provide us with an improved investment climate in this country for eu business, as well as legal stability. i regret very much that at the time of the summit we are talking about, it was a one-way street. we gave them what they didn't give us. the joint resolution does not, let us be clear, refer to specific cases of human rights violations. it's better to speak of specific cases by name, and there have been many. finally, if mrs merkel and mr medvedev agree to set up an eu-russia political and security committee, it is necessary to be specific: will the union really speak with one voice or will it be the voice of individual states?
the rapporteur. - fellow workers! this is a big case. for the first time in the history of the european union, we are about to launch an enhanced cooperation mechanism. i have two things to say about that. first, i would like to make an update amendment, because there has been a change since the recommendation was drawn up and voted on in the legal affairs committee. not 12, but 14 member states have joined the enhanced cooperation mechanism (joined by malta and portugal). i would therefore like to see this change from 12 to 14 included in point g of the preamble. i would also like to urge the european commission and the member states participating in the enhanced cooperation mechanism to encourage and promote the enhanced cooperation mechanism among as many member states as possible, in accordance with article 328 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the aim is not to use the mechanism as a tool for specially setting specific tasks for a limited number of countries.
the rapporteur. - just one sentence. we give the council a credit of confidence, but it's not an unconditional credit. i believe that our cooperation with the council in the coming year will be much better, much more effective than it has been so far.
the baltic sea is our common european treasure, and it is important that we take action to protect it from ourselves. paradoxically, some sectors of the economy - such as industry, agriculture and fisheries - can have a negative impact on its ecosystems if they are poorly managed. it is therefore our duty to ensure that, despite the necessary measures to support the processes essential for the economy, the baltic sea's unique natural heritage is cared for and protected. neglect of its biodiversity will have a negative impact on those management practices that benefit from the fishery. therefore, transnational and cross-border cooperation in this area is essential. only through joint research, including with russian scientists, can we create an effective system to protect the baltic sea and enable innovative use of its potential.
mr. chairman, please! the report we have adopted today was produced with great pain. i would remind you that we only completed a similar report giving discharge to the council last year in november. this shows that parliament had and still has a number of reservations about the control of budgetary expenditure by this basic institution of the european union. it is to be hoped that the confidence we have shown the council today, despite various problems and a very difficult dialogue with the council, will lead to more open cooperation on the part of the council, to more precise documents being sent to the european parliament in the area of budgetary expenditure, to an earlier start, and finally to the famous gentlemen's agreement of 1970, which was agreed 40 years ago, being amended so that the european parliament can have real influence on the control of the council's budgetary expenditure.
the basic idea of this regulation is to ensure that food labelling is uniform throughout the european union. it will certainly be more transparent and understandable for all european consumers. the european food safety authority (efsa) has published a new food labelling directive. when we're abroad, we avoid the unwanted ingredients, the accidental intake of allergens. harmonisation of rules at eu level will ensure the smooth functioning of the market and liberalise the flow of goods. however, we must not forget that any change in the rules on food labelling without a transitional period exposes producers to very high losses.
in writing. − i voted yes on the joint baltic sea research and development programme (bonus-169) because i support the objectives of this project and believe that the current ecological problems of the baltic sea must be addressed. in addition, i support this project because it will allow us to accomplish greater joint cooperation and coordination by the participating states of denmark, germany, estonia, latvia, lithuania, poland, finland, and sweden. it is my hope that by supporting the joint baltic sea research and development programme (bonus-169) we can achieve optimal exploitation of the resources and cooperation between scientists, tourist boards, regional advisory councils and local governments.
in writing. - the adoption by the european parliament of the statute of the international renewable energy agency is good news for the european union as a whole. alternative energy sources are the future of both the modern economy and, above all, of environmental biodiversity conservation. geothermal, wind, solar, biomass or biogas are all ways in which the european economy can become somewhat independent of imported energy resources, while making environmentally friendly use of natural resources. in the current global economic and, above all, geopolitical situation, it seems that additional initiatives are needed to ensure the energy security of the european continent. renewable energy is a great alternative to traditional methods, while creating new jobs, being cheaper and more environmentally friendly. the adoption of the statute of this organisation is a right move by parliament towards a better energy policy.
in writing. − on 1 january 2011, estonia will become the 17th member state of the european union to adopt the euro. in the face of the public finance crisis in europe, any country that meets the convergence criteria is building our financial stability. the adoption of the euro not only brings the benefits of using the same currency in most member states, but also those of a stable and strong economy. the euro is the future. it is a real opportunity for growth in every area of social, economic and financial life. but let us not forget that the euro is also a commitment to a sound and balanced fiscal policy. as a staunch supporter of the euro, i would like to congratulate estonia, which, despite the global economic crisis, has managed to meet the eu's criteria for adoption. i am deeply convinced that, like our partner, poland will soon be among those honoured people.
in writing. − considering it necessary to ensure the effective right of defence of european union citizens, i have decided to support the report on the draft directive of the european parliament and of the council on the right to interpretation and translation in criminal proceedings. this is part of the roadmap adopted by the council in 2009 to strengthen the procedural rights of suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings. by adopting this report, we are making a significant contribution to improving the judicial protection of individual rights, while implementing the provisions of the european convention on human rights and interpreting the case law of the european court of human rights. translations should be free, sufficient and immediate, which will greatly improve the ability to defend european union citizens.
in writing. the european parliament adopted by a large majority a report on food labelling. this is good news for all of us. food packaging will contain the necessary information to enable us - consumers - to make more informed choices about our diet. the european parliament thus advocated clarity of information for consumers, rather than excess. it also agreed to reject the often misleading colour labelling of foodstuffs based on the light signalling system. the european parliament also decided that the energy value of the product should be indicated on the front of the packaging. a harmonised and simplified food labelling system across the european union will also contribute to greater coherence in the internal market, giving producers more legal certainty and consumers the information they expect from food products.
in writing. - in the interests of the european union's consumers, i supported the report on the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the provision of food information to consumers. the right to information, including on foodstuffs, is a fundamental right of eu citizens. freedom of choice is not complete unless it is also a conscious choice. the report is an important step towards raising consumer awareness by establishing uniform labelling to indicate the nutritional value, composition or place of origin of products. by introducing complementary information programmes at the same time, we can achieve the goal of consumers making informed food choices.
mr. chairman, please! the european parliament and we as members attach great importance to human rights and their observance. it is also an important element of international policy, especially now with the new competences and provisions of the lisbon treaty. the reports presented by the rapporteurs are important documents, but not all of them can be dealt with in a short speech. we have many partners in the eu, in the council of europe, in the un, in human rights ombudsmen and human rights defenders. i would first like to express my satisfaction that there is a dialogue on human rights. it does not always produce quick and good results. in particular, if it is the neighbourhood policy and also the eastern partnership countries that are concerned. i believe, and this is also an appeal to mrs ashton and commissioner füle, that we should create as many incentives and means as possible to promote human rights. i agree with what the high representative said that we should be smart in our communication and that any violation of human rights should be met with a response, whether political or economic. we should support human rights defenders. that was in one of the reports from heidi hautala. i would like to express the hope that the european parliament's sakharov prize for human rights defenders will result in them being supported by all the institutions of the european union to make much better use of the network of these laureates. the last time was the eu-russia summit. at the same time, demonstrators in russia (in st. petersburg and moscow) protested against the violation of the right to assembly. there was no reaction from the union at the time, and one of the people who appealed to us on this matter was the sakharov prize winner. we're going to establish a new external action service. let us include in its action from the very beginning all the matters which concern human rights. we will certainly make much better use of all the instruments we have to offer as the european union.
madam president! intelligence of the media -- as you said -- does not involve double standards, does not involve double standards. it is worrying that we as the european union, but perhaps not even the european parliament, but rather the council and the commission, often take different measures to the same problems. when human rights are violated in countries that are less interesting in terms of business, economically from the point of view of the largest countries in the european union, then human rights in these countries are an absolute priority for us. but when human rights are violated in countries of interest to big industry, big business, the biggest countries in the union, then suddenly this union voice becomes much quieter, much less clear. that's double standards, and it should be avoided at all costs. (the president cut the speaker off)
i'm very happy that mrs. ashton is staying in the room, that she's here, because i see it as an expression of her concern for human rights. it is true that we differ in europe on geopolitical, social and political issues, but on human rights we should speak with one voice, despite the differences that arise from our national affiliation or our party affiliation. and that should connect us. and the curious thing is, we're not able to protect or defend even those we reward. the 2006 sakharov prize laureate aleksander milinkiewicz is today being attacked and repressed in his own country. last year's sakharov prize winners oleg orlov and ludmila alekseyeva are also being attacked and repressed by their own country's authorities. i appeal to the commissioner and to all of us, but above all to the commissioner, to protect all human rights defenders, with particular reference to those whom we have honoured with our awards.
we often encourage the defence of human rights, because we consider them to be universal and for all people. so we can never stop promoting human rights around the world. but we should remember that in calling for action on human rights in countries where they are being violated, we also take on a certain responsibility, a responsibility for the fate of the brave and good people we call human rights defenders. human rights defenders themselves are sometimes victims of human rights violations, including in the course of their duties. the following persons have been designated by the united nations as designated persons for the purposes of the un security council resolution on the situation in the drc: it is our duty to help all those who risk their health, their freedom, their lives to protect the values that we want to make universal. we can't leave these people alone. what is needed is not only symbolic, emotional, moral action, but also concrete legal, political and diplomatic action. these tasks are urgent because human rights defenders are dying. for example, tomorrow we will discuss the death of congolese activist floribert chebeyi bahizire, who died a few days ago on june 2. this is happening right in front of us.
mr. chairman, please! like the previous speaker, i wanted to take a moment to address this regulation banning the sale of instruments of torture. these are the tools that we see in medieval museums today. it's a pain in the ass to look at it, but it's not just the past and the history, it's also the present, because torture is present in the world, and unfortunately, it's also happening in the european union. the issue of prohibiting the trade in instruments of torture is therefore of particular importance. the european union should combat torture in all its forms, and the prohibition on the trade in instruments of torture should be applied as strictly as possible. there are troubling attempts to justify torture as a method of, say, fighting terrorism. this is a completely wrong way to go, because a person under torture will confess to unfulfilled crimes, while the real perpetrator very often goes unpunished. i therefore call for and urge that this regulation and this prohibition of torture be strictly enforced in the european union.
mr. chairman, please! when we talk about human rights, there are usually a lot of beautiful words. it's not the same with actions. i would therefore like to give my strong support to these speeches and documents of parliament which draw very strong attention to the need for pragmatic action in the union. it is particularly important that we support human rights defenders more effectively than ever before. we have a special obligation to these brave men. i will therefore allow myself to ask mrs ashton two specific questions, because i think this is an important matter. the union is currently working on a community visa code. that's the code to be followed. i would like to ask in this connection whether the code will regulate the issue of visas for human rights defenders in situations of danger to life? the union delegations are now being set up. are liaison officers already appointed in these new representations to deal with ...? (the president cut the speaker off)
let me begin by thanking and congratulating mrs hautala on her report. i am also pleased to hear lady ashton say in this debate that the issue of human rights is and will remain at the heart of european foreign policy. but i am concerned about the passivity of our community when these rights are actually being violated, especially when they are in the immediate vicinity, as recently in russia and more recently in belarus. in this second country - i want to remind you - death sentences are still being carried out. political opponents are sentenced to long prison terms, and citizens' social activism in independent ngos is subject to harassment by the authorities, despite the fact that the belarusian authorities and the european commission have been holding a formal dialogue on human rights for a year. our policy as can be seen with the naked eye must be more effective, and in particular the commissioner must react quickly and decisively, especially when other eu institutions fail, as is the case during the current unfortunately on human rights very passive spanish presidency. tomorrow we will vote on a resolution on the eu-russia summit and i hope that there will be a stronger reference to the recent bad events in russia, and on belarus, words are no longer enough. we must use the instruments of the eastern partnership, including those of a financial and economic nature... (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
mr. chairman, please! i would like to begin by thanking mrs hautala for her report, which is both detailed and comprehensive. i agree that the european union's position as the protector of human rights defenders in the world is closely linked to its internal principle of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. i therefore support the points made in the report on the appointment of local liaison officers in these european missions. i also agree with the recommendations on the assessment of the human rights situation in third countries. the human rights assessment is essential for countries that engage in trade relations with the european union. the importance of sanctions against third countries that commit serious human rights violations should be addressed with greater determination.
in writing. the protection and promotion of human rights is a priority for the european union. the situation is still far from perfect, but the community is not giving up in its fight to uphold human rights worldwide. the eu has a long history of supporting the development of the region. the list of countries with which the eu discusses human rights issues is unfortunately impressive. in 2007, the european instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr) was established to fund projects led by civil society to promote the rule of law and democracy. for example, the eidhr has supported the reform of the electoral system in chad with €5 million. as you can imagine, eu action in this area is most effective with regard to the candidate countries. for example, many positive developments have been noted in croatia and turkey. the former has ratified the most important international conventions and cooperates with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia. turkey, on the other hand, is beginning to put more emphasis on tackling its traditional problems, such as child labour. these actions should not obscure the fact that even greater efforts are needed to promote human rights. the current tragic situation in kyrgyzstan is a sad illustration of this.
in writing. the european union and its institutions are at every turn reminding people of their commitment to human rights around the world. the legal provisions in this area are present in all treaties and other strategic documents. i wholeheartedly support all the initiatives mentioned in mrs hautala's report. however, i would like to express my unequivocal opposition to the european parliament's lack of action in relation to the current situation of the polish minority in lithuania. first, it is a case of the lithuanian central commission for professional ethics, which opened an investigation against the lithuanian mp waldemar tomaszewski, who stood up in defense of poles living in lithuania and drew attention to the fact that the country does not comply with international conventions on the protection of the rights of national minorities, especially in the area of language rights. how long will parliament allow its members to keep their mouths shut? another issue is the current actions of the lithuanian parliament in the field of the education act, aimed at limiting the teaching of polish in polish schools in lithuania. will parliament wait until they are eliminated?
in writing. human rights defenders around the world play a vital role in protecting and promoting fundamental rights through their daily engagement, often at the risk of their own lives. support for human rights defenders has long been an element of the european union's human rights policy in its external relations. this issue is now becoming more relevant in the light of articles 3 and 21 of the lisbon treaty, which place the promotion and protection of human rights at the heart of the european union's external action. in this context, one of the priorities must be the promotion of human rights as a core value and objective of the union's foreign policy. the structure and human resources of the european external action service currently being established should reflect adequately the monitoring, promotion and support of human rights. i consider the support, protection and safety of human rights defenders to be a very important element of the eu's strategy in this regard. these issues should be prioritised in the eu's relations with third countries and taken into account at all levels and in all union foreign policy instruments in order to enhance the effectiveness and credibility of the eu's action in this area. i therefore ask the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to implement the human rights clause effectively in international agreements and partnerships and to establish a genuine mechanism to enforce this clause.
mr. chairman, please! i, unlike my colleague who spoke here, have been to korea a few times in the last few years. i'm talking about north korea here. i know. it's a sad experience and i think that comparing what's happening in europe with what's happening in north korea is not a fair comparison. but we're talking about two very different worlds. and the other thing i would like to mention is that i have the impression from my time in north korea that koreans are de facto dependent on one country. the one country that they have to deal with is china, because it's a great neighbor of korea, and it's a country that without it korea would have a tremendous problem to survive. i would therefore suggest that in our contacts with china - and the union has such contacts - we should always put a very strong emphasis on the need to increase china's role in resolving what is happening on the korean peninsula.
in writing. in the context of today's debate, it should be noted that railways operate under different conditions in different member states. the first 'railway package' was adopted in 2001 and can be considered to have been prepared mainly in view of the situation on the railway markets of the eu-15. the situation of the railways in the new member states, on the other hand, has been and is very different, particularly in the context of the so-called financial architecture, i.e. the proper financing of the infrastructure, multiannual contracts between the state and the infrastructure manager, historical debts or the financing of public services. the first priority is to ensure a level playing field for rail and to enforce the rules on the proper financing of the rail system, which is fundamental for the development of this transport sector.
member of the commission. − mr president, indeed the floods in central europe are a very dramatic reminder of our vulnerability to natural disasters, and actually, as we speak in this chamber tonight, flash floods in the south of france have so far taken the lives of 19 people. so disasters are not confined to the areas which are this evening’s subject matter (poland, the czech republic, slovakia and hungary). floods this year have also been hitting hard in the country where we are meeting tonight. we are all aware that natural disasters are on the rise as climate change leads to more extreme weather events, and when faced with disasters of this magnitude the national capacity to respond is simply overwhelmed. in such cases european solidarity makes a difference in saving and protecting both lives and critical infrastructure. these floods we are discussing this evening have underlined the added value of a coordinated eu response. let me take us back to the beginning of the floods in poland, hungary, the czech republic and slovakia. very heavy rainfall and severe flooding affected the basins of the vistula, oder and warta rivers in the first half of may. on thursday 19 may poland asked for assistance – specifically they asked for high-capacity pumps – through the eu civil protection mechanism, which i am responsible for. the eu response to this request was swift and generous, with eight member states providing exactly what was needed – germany, the czech republic, france, denmark, and the netherlands delivered within hours high-capacity pumps and technical expertise. an eu cofinanced multinational module developed by estonia, latvia and lithuania under the preparatory action for an eu rapid response capability, which this parliament promoted, was also deployed. in total over 55 pumps, 22 expert teams and 300 rescuers were deployed plus one liaison officer from the monitoring and information centre in the commission. six days later, hungary, which had also been hit by severe flooding, requested sand-bags to reinforce its flood containment capacity. the eu civil protection mechanism managed to secure more than three million sand-bags from slovenia, romania, the netherlands, bulgaria, germany, the czech republic, norway, slovakia and croatia. as we speak, floods and their consequences have not yet abated. rains continue to affect part of central europe. a flash flood hit france yesterday and today. we are waiting for a second-wave flood to affect the south of poland, where nine european teams are still on the ground. the situation in hungary is gradually improving. we are in daily contact with the member states, monitoring the situation constantly and ready upon request to mobilise extra eu expertise. beyond these emergency measures, the eu solidarity fund could also be mobilised to cover certain expenditures linked to repairs and recovery, and the commission is already cooperating with the affected countries, giving them guidance in preparing applications. the floods have proven the value of the civil protection mechanism as a platform for real-time information dissemination and response coordination. this mechanism, as you recall, was also triggered for haiti and for the oil spill in the gulf of mexico, and clearly shows the potential of this instrument. by the end of this year, the commission will adopt a communication on the reinforcement of the eu’s disaster response capacity. it will look at the response to various types of disasters within the eu as well as outside the eu. one key issue will be improving the mobilisation of the eu’s in-kind assistance. most – not all – but most of this assistance is already channelled through the commission’s monitoring and information centre (mic). the system ensures that real needs are being met and that duplication is avoided. but it is based on ad hoc offers, and because of this it is simply not possible to guarantee that the right assistance will be available. so disaster hits and we pray that it won’t hit in so many member states that we will be faced with inability to meet demands. we propose to address this by developing reference scenarios for major types of disasters so that we can anticipate the type of help that will be needed, and by mapping out the available assets in the member states for use when disaster strikes. and we will aim to find agreement with member states on a voluntary pool of key assets that can be put on stand-by for immediate deployment. to develop these ideas, we are engaging in a wide-ranging consultation and we will continue to do so with the parliament, member states and other stakeholders. the recent floods are also a reminder that the eu and its member states need to step up work on disaster prevention. this is a good moment for the affected countries to reinforce their knowledge of flood risks, to draw up risk assessments and maps, to prepare flood risk management plans, and to take all the steps necessary for effective implementation of the floods directive. the increased frequency and intensity of disasters in europe should also provide a further incentive for member states to invest in preparedness and build up their capacity. eu solidarity has to go hand in hand with national responsibility, and preparedness will be part of the proposals the commission will put forward. so let me conclude, mr president, by saying that we all recognise that emergency situations have massive human, economic and environmental cost. with the frequency and intensity of disasters on the rise, european citizens expect us to be effective in addressing them both inside and outside the eu. we have identified disaster management as a priority, and i am personally committed to bringing forward proposals to strengthen the european disaster-response capacity. i would like to thank parliament for its interest and support. you have been a very strong factor in developing the capacities i reported on, and i do hope you will continue to play this critical role of driving us towards a better response capacity in the future.
on behalf of the ppe group. flooding in europe, twice this year. the first flood wave is in mid-may, and the second one is in early june. it included the czech republic, poland, slovakia, hungary, as well as austria and to some extent germany, and even ukraine and serbia. we heard from the commissioner today about the floods in france. the flood was one of the worst in poland. its peak wave was long, lasting even several days, occurred on the two largest polish rivers, i.e. the vistula and the oder. it's taken over most of our regions. significant infrastructure, including a number of water and sewerage systems, has been destroyed, and many public facilities, including schools and hospitals, have been flooded. many thousands of families have suffered tremendous losses. assistance was provided by various public services and private individuals. we also received foreign aid from many countries in the european union and elsewhere. thank you very much for that. the polish government and local authorities are providing assistance. the damage assessment has begun. financial support from the european union is important and expected. (laughter)
on behalf of the s&d group. the recent floods in central europe and the one in france have shown the immensity and unpredictability of natural disasters. the european parliament resolution, expressing its sympathy for the victims of the floods and all those affected, primarily obliges the european commission to provide assistance under the solidarity fund quickly and efficiently. the resolution also recalls the legal measures needed to limit the negative effects of flooding in the future. in simple terms, it is about the proper implementation of the so-called flood directive, which requires member states to set up a flood risk management system with a preliminary risk assessment and the identification of areas where there is a high or likely flood risk. the directive requires states to draw up flood hazard maps and flood risk management plans. as regards the situation in poland, i would like to point out that before this year's floods, environmental ngos repeatedly drew attention to the incorrect implementation of the flood directive in the polish legal order, and in particular to the lack of an appropriate flood inventory system and their unclear legal status. i would therefore like to draw the attention of the european commission to the need to enforce eu flood law effectively, so that poland and other community countries do not have to apply for eu funds from the solidarity fund in the future.
on behalf of the ecr group. the catastrophic floods that have hit poland and other countries in the region in recent weeks - hungary, the czech republic, slovakia - have caused unimaginable damage to industrial, public and civil infrastructure, depriving thousands of people of their livelihoods. i saw it with my own eyes in the carpathian basin, where two huge waves, never seen before, swept away the lives of the inhabitants of the villages and towns of the region. gorzyce, tarnobrzeg, jasło, mielecki district, then the malopolska province, lublin, świętokrzyskie, mazowsze, central poland, warsaw were flooded - these are the areas where the flood devastated in a brutal and tragic way. that is why i am calling on the european union and the european commission here today to mobilise all the technical and financial resources available as soon as possible to help poland and the other countries in the region affected by this tragic flood to recover from its effects. i am thinking in particular of the mobilisation of the european solidarity fund, which was set up specifically to help member states in the event of such a disaster. we know that without this european solidarity, without the help of the european union, it will be very difficult for us to restore normal life in the flood-affected areas. therefore, thanking you for the actions that have been taken - both technical and human assistance, as well as the expressions of sympathy that have reached poland - we ask that this be the beginning of further actions, further support for our country, for poland, for other countries so that we do not feel left alone in removing the tragic consequences of this great and terrible flood. (laughter)
mr. chairman, please! flood risks can be minimised and are reduced the more accurately flows are simulated and monitored. the natural disaster in poland was initially drowning due to lack of storm sewerage and low retention, followed by subsequent large flood waves. the retention tanks and modern shafts reduce the likelihood of flooding, are necessary but limited to the market, the neoliberal policy of the cheap state, low budget and low taxes delay expensive hydrotechnical investments. the big river in the centre of europe the vistula is a wild river, which can only please environmentalists, but is a disgrace to my country. the wisla program, which was started in the 1970's to civilize this beautiful river, was abandoned for political reasons. the prl government of the 1970s was accused of gigantism by its successors, and now we have huge losses and misfortune. modern investment based on the cohesion funds is needed.
parliament has repeatedly called on the european commission to make more efficient use of funds to help victims of natural disasters. it is time to introduce a flexible model for the allocation of assistance from the solidarity fund. prevention needs to be stepped up. the structural funds should play a more important role in financing the prevention and management of natural disasters. the envelope for this purpose must include significant funds for scientific research, risk management, civil defence, threat monitoring. the european environment agency needs to be more involved in prevention. i would like to express my condolences to all the victims of the floods and my sincere thanks to the citizens of the union for the help they have given to poland. i too, with my friends - farmers from puck and reda municipalities - organized 22 tons of feed grain for the hungry animals from the flooded świętokrzyskie province. individual aid is faster and better targeted than institutional aid. we've got to learn from this.
mr. chairman, please! in view of the enormous damage caused by the floods in poland and central europe (thousands of people lost their livelihoods, in some cases; in poland alone more than 300 000 people were drowned and 40 000 had to be evacuated), i and a group of colleagues from the ecr took the initiative to ask the european parliament to deal with this terrible tragedy, this natural disaster, by devoting a debate and a resolution to the matter. i would like to thank all those, including the chairmen of all the parliamentary groups, who have contributed to the recognition of this initiative, because it is an expression of our solidarity with all those who have suffered, also solidarity with the countries that have been affected, but above all with the people who have suffered the greatest losses. first of all, we want to encourage the european commission to give the most far-reaching help to people and countries in need, to make it flexible and, as far as possible, to adapt it to the needs of the regions. thank you so much again.
in poland, mr president, commissioner, there have been two waves of flooding. the first took away people's fortunes, the second took away their hope, but in the words of ernest hemingway, "don't ask for whom the bell tolls, it tolls for you". he's beating the germans, he's beating the french today. let me be very clear: the european union has repeatedly supported the countries of southern europe that are plagued by cyclical droughts: france, spain, italy, portugal, greece. central and eastern europe is experiencing cyclical flooding. today the european union is passing the solidarity test, a solidarity which cannot be just a slogan, a cliché, but which must also have a concrete financial content, an instrument on which the poles, the czechs, the hungarians and the slovaks are counting. (laughter)
mr. chairman, please! it is good that this debate is taking place, which was proposed by mr zbigniew ziobro at a meeting of all polish meps. good, because what happened in poland, hungary, the czech republic and slovakia requires the intervention and help of the european union. when tragedy happens, when floods occur, the media is overwhelmed with images of houses being washed away, trees roots reaching up to the sky, tears, crying, there are cameras, there is compassion, even mobilization and help. but the real drama begins after the flood. then people are left alone with their misery. there are communities in poland like wolków, where 90% of the territory is under water. there are communities like lanckorona where 50 houses have been torn down by what are called landslides. the european union must respond when there is damage, when there is drought, when there is flood or earthquake. if we have been able to help haiti, we must help our member countries even more. there's a polish proverb that says, "you know your friends when you're poor". that is why i am appealing for maximum assistance for poland and for all other countries affected by this disaster.
flooding is a great tragedy, flooding is death, destroyed infrastructure, destroyed the entire life's work of tens of thousands of families. this tragedy has affected people in cities and rural areas. farmers' crops were destroyed, machines and buildings were damaged, the factory was liquidated, loans were drawn, and the animals rescued were left without food. the polish authorities, as well as the authorities of other countries affected by the flood disaster, have taken relief measures, but it is important that the european union come to the rescue. the sooner this happens, the better the reception and evaluation of the european union's actions will be. i take this opportunity to thank all the governments, the countries, our neighbors who came to our aid, and i thank you all the more for the simple solidarity between people in this tragedy. (laughter)
two devastating floods recently swept through poland, leaving thousands homeless and without their belongings. many areas were flooded, including lubelszczyzna, which was particularly affected, and the completely flooded municipality of wilków became a symbol. the losses are so great and so severe that the victims greeted mr barroso's announcement of eu aid from the solidarity fund with great hope. in order not to undermine confidence, the european commission should act swiftly and decisively. we hope the sum donated will not be a symbolic amount. in this case, all barriers must be removed, with immediate flexibility in procedures, and significant funds must be made available directly to the victims of the disaster in the most affected regions. the adoption of the resolution by our parliament will give president barroso a strong mandate to take immediate action. (laughter)
mr. chairman, please! i take this opportunity to congratulate you on your appointment as vice-president, but i would like to address a word to the commissioner and to the european commission as a whole. these losses, whether human, material or environmental, require real european solidarity. it is a test of whether the european union is able to react and respond to the needs of its citizens. this is not an empty slogan, because our second principle is the principle of subsidiarity. the member states are not able to cope with this situation, so they need european solidarity and subsidiarity. the solidarity fund can help rebuild infrastructure, reimburse the cost of rescue operations, rebuild equipment that has been destroyed. but there are also human needs. this requires some adjustment in the case of the regional development funds, the community's agricultural policy fund, so that these funds can be used to help people who have suffered flood damage, lost their livestock, often entire workshops, and will have nothing to live on in the near future.
the flood, as you can see, knows no bounds. it has struck again, after 13 years, several countries in central and eastern europe. i want to assure you that in terms of human resources, in terms of the efficiency of the services, at least the polish services have done everything to save livestock wherever possible. many counties, including lower silesia, passed this examination with distinction. i want to talk about three things. first, the administrative burden of the solidarity fund should be reduced so that aid can reach effectively all the victims so tragically affected by the floods in all the countries affected by the floods. secondly, we should take care of legal instruments effectively, such as optional financial instruments, which give the obligation to take out insurance. in that case, these compulsory insurance policies would be much cheaper and the additional aid would go to all those who suffered from potential floods today and in the future. thirdly, the cohesion fund should support the construction of reservoirs and floodplains in the years ahead, because this is the main problem in europe: flood control. i think the new financial agenda should serve that purpose in a ruthless way. (laughter)
mr. chairman, please! i join my colleagues in congratulating you. i thank you all on behalf of my constituents. the south of poland, which has been so terribly and painfully affected by these floods, is my constituency. i am happy to convey to them the beautiful words of solidarity which i have heard from you in this debate tonight. and what happened there and the magnitude of the human misery is really hard to imagine. i've been to many of these places and i've seen these people who have lost their homes and, as my colleagues say, their jobs because their newly built factories have been washed away. but all this has happened in those parts of europe that have recently been on their feet, where new infrastructure has been built with enormous effort, thanks in part to european solidarity. some of that has been destroyed, but what has not been destroyed is the trust in european solidarity. nor was their will to fight destroyed, nor was their will to improve their lives or their entrepreneurship destroyed. these men are brave and willing to work hard. commissioner, let us help them as soon as possible, and they will quickly and efficiently rebuild the destroyed parts of the common european union.
i come from another southern region of poland, lower silesia, which has been repeatedly hit by floods in recent years. the big flood was 13 years ago, the year before it was a little smaller, and this year the region was flooded again. there is a difference not only in the scale of the floods, the scale of the floods, the scale of this event that happened 13 years ago and this year, but also in the fact that poland was not a member of the european union then, and today it is. it is therefore important that the victims of this year's floods, unlike 13 years ago, receive help from the european institutions. it is therefore really important that in these dramatic circumstances, citizens of the union, such as the inhabitants of lower silesia and other regions of poland, should see that the union is working and helping, not only industrial corporations, not only banks, not only countries in financial difficulty, but also ordinary people when they are in need. and it doesn't matter whether it's central europe or western europe, like france this year, and it doesn't matter whether it's the solidarity fund, the cohesion fund or the regional development fund. the union must be where people need help and support. (laughter)
mr. chairman, please! in the province of małopolska alone, one of the flooded provinces, as many as nine people were killed. it flooded 645 villages, over 2,000 homes that are unusable. the floods have particularly affected mountain and foothill areas, which face daily challenges due to the specific terrain and poor infrastructure. the natural disaster that has hit the region has added to existing problems by flooding miles of roads, railway tracks, tearing down bridges, flooding schools, farms, private businesses, residential homes. as a result, more than a thousand landslides have been triggered in this specific region, adding to the damage, sometimes taking entire villages. in the face of this natural disaster, i appeal to the european commission to take account of the specificities of the regions affected by the disaster when mobilising the solidarity fund, so as to provide the best possible assistance to the victims of this disaster.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i live on the warta river, and i've seen the anxiety and fear of the people in the villages along the river as the river rises. this fear was further heightened by reports of previous flooding. polish flood victims experienced support and empathy from many people, organizations and institutions. they also received help from abroad. my group civic platform and our candidate for president of the republic of poland bronisław komorowski also joined the aid campaign. europe is solidary on its own, on its own principles, not because the polish opposition is calling for it. the solidarity fund and its mechanisms operate independently of debate and politicians. and it's very good that this support mechanism is independent.
in writing. poland has been hit by another flood wave. many people and households suffered, including many in the lublin region that i represent. our priority in the coming months will be to repair the damage and the damage that has been done. we need to think now about how to prevent similar situations in the future. we cannot allow ourselves to be hit by a similar wave of destruction in the future. the experience of recent years shows that the number of disasters in europe is increasing and that poland will also be particularly vulnerable to floods. it turns out that poland has used only a few tens of millions of the 2 billion euros that the european union has given us for flood protection. we still don't have a plan in place for this type of disaster protection. many member states have not fully implemented the eu flood directive. now we have to do it as soon as possible. the european commission must be flexible in assisting the regions affected by the disaster to prepare flood recovery and reconstruction plans. it should also, in cooperation with the member states, examine flood risk management plans and disaster prevention measures, as well as the use of union funds for this purpose.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the floods, which we have painfully felt not only in poland but also in hungary, the czech republic and slovakia, have caused enormous losses. another cataclysmic event that shows how vulnerable we are to the forces of nature forces us to take swift and effective action. there are many victims, some have lost loved ones, a lifetime of work. please accept my condolences and sympathies. in this particularly difficult time, all the forces at our disposal are being mobilised. there are many examples of rescue operations by the rescue services and on the initiative of citizens. this difficult moment should give us pause and motivate us to act quickly in the realm of exacting decisions on how to proceed in similar scenarios. it is worthwhile to have units that, despite their low cost, would provide a quick response in the event of a threat. we should also ensure that they can work together within the eu. i welcome the adoption of the report on the european earth observation programme (gmes), which will allow for better control of the remediation of natural disasters. crisis management will be more efficient as all services at national, regional and local level will have free access to the data collected by gmes. i would like to express my hope that despite the difficult financial situation in the eu, funds will be allocated to help the countries affected by the disaster.
in writing. the floods that swept through poland in may and june particularly affected the podkarpatie region, where i live. the damage is immense. people were deprived of their livelihoods: homes, farm buildings, crops, livestock. the tragedy of these people is beyond words. in the context of today's debate, i would like to express my sympathy for my countrymen and to stress the gravity and scale of the human plight and the hope for help from the eu. in these difficult times, we see human solidarity, and i would like to thank all those people from home and abroad who rushed to help. the most important priority, however, is financial assistance to the affected areas to rebuild the destroyed infrastructure, which is why the help and solidarity of the whole eu and the possibility of obtaining funds from the solidarity fund are so important for poland and poles.
in writing. poland has been hit by floods in recent weeks, which have claimed 20 lives. thousands of homes have been destroyed, leaving the people of the flooded areas without any means of livelihood and, in many cases, without any hope of recovery. the experience of the so-called millennium flood of 1997 had led to hopes of improving the protection infrastructure, but this proved insufficient. the two floods that have hit the country so far have destroyed houses, entire neighborhoods and towns, but also caused huge losses in agriculture. in the south of the country, it is estimated that over 50% of the tomato and cucumber crops have been lost, and the transport of goods through the flooded areas has been hindered or made impossible, contributing to the already visible increase in food prices. it is estimated that the current situation could contribute to a decline in gdp of up to 0,2%. we all know that these elements are difficult to fight. but they can be counteracted. effective flood protection systems should be developed in consultation with different groups, as this is a multi-sector problem. the focus should not be on the national dimension of such solutions, as floods are phenomena that can cross national borders. a transnational approach to safeguarding and warning is needed. we also need to invest in infrastructure, because without effective safeguards and responsible spatial planning, we will not be able to withstand the next wave.
in writing. – honourably members, let me begin by expressing my gratitude and appreciation for the men and women of the search and rescue units that have been working tirelessly throughout the affected areas of a central europe. i would also like to thank the various member states that have offered their assistance and support during this time of need. as a member of the european parliament elected from one of the countries affected by devastating flooding i strongly support the joint motion for resolution on the floods in central european countries. the recent floods have brought into clear focus the need to respond to such situations in a more proactive manner. therefore, i agree with the resolution in calling for the creation a new eusf regulation capable of responding to natural disasters in a more flexible and effective manner. just as natural disasters strike quickly and without warning, they are not limited to one geographical location, i believe we should be prepared to respond just as quickly to help those affected. the people that elected us need to know that we are there for them when they need us the most. thank you!
member of the commission. − mr president, on behalf of the commission, i thank you for the question that has been put to us. i am very pleased to engage in dialogue on this question with the european parliament. the commission is working at improving access to european judicial training, not only for judges and prosecutors, but also for all other legal professions. we consider contacts with all networks and representative organisations to be of the utmost importance. member states are also of major importance since they have the overall responsibility for training of judges, prosecutors and court staff. the commission is currently assessing what financial means would be necessary to implement european judicial training and exchanges on a larger scale and some proposals could be presented, or actually are going to be presented, for the new financial perspective. in the mean time it is important to do more and better with the available means, with what we have now. we have already taken steps to ensure that european judicial training is better taken into consideration in the 2011 financial programmes. however, i would like to underline that, for several years, stakeholders have been encouraged to present more training projects in response to calls for proposals, but results have been disappointing: only a limited number of good quality projects on judicial training were received and the commission regrets in particular that very few quality projects have been presented on training of court staff, bailiffs, notaries or legal interpreters. the commission services are already working on developing proof of concept projects for exchanges between legal practitioners. we are not developing any pilot project this year under article 49(6)a of the financial regulation. feasibility studies are necessary to help the commission define which features should be common to all legal professions and which ones should take into consideration organisational aspects specific to one particular legal profession. to develop a common judicial culture, the commission is keen to encourage european networks, stakeholders and member states to organise common activities on comparative law and approximation of law, which might eventually come under the umbrella of a european law institute, as indicated in the commission’s action plan. contacts with stakeholders have shown that there is a need to better structure european judicial training and they have framed a number of questions that the commission is focused on now. questions like the following: what type of activities are we talking about when we consider european judicial training? what tools do we have to assess the impact training has at european level? how do we assess the level of quality? how can we reuse good practices, and transfer know-how? how can we allow legal practioners to be trained not only in eu law or comparative law, but also in the skills necessary to work in a european area of justice, such as knowledge of other languages, understanding of cross-border banking and similar issues? how can we achieve a european training scheme which focuses on the needs of our citizens? we would like to use the feedback from european judicial training activities to assess the quality of eu legislation, in our ongoing efforts for better regulation. these are some of the aspects on which the commission is working and they will be the basis of the communication the commission will be presenting in 2011. and in this communication there will of course be a funding proposal and the commission has a higher level of ambition with regard to funding than we currently have available. we welcome opportunities to further discuss european judicial training and will engage with parliament on this important matter.
on behalf of the ppe group. the principle of mutual recognition, which is the foundation, requires mutual trust and trust in the legal systems of other countries. the court of justice has consistently held that the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of family law is not a fundamental principle of the european union. mutual knowledge and understanding can only be achieved through the intensification of policies that favour them, including exchanges of experience, visits, information sharing and, above all, training for lawyers and judicial staff, in particular for judges of the first instance, and a thorough modernisation of university curricula. european networks established in the various sectors of the judicial system must play an active role in the further development of a european judicial culture. in the context of the effectiveness of training for judicial staff, it is necessary to emphasise the importance of the multilingual ejustice portal. the portal should have access to legal databases, judicial and non-judicial electronic redress systems, intelligent systems designed to help citizens find ways to solve legal problems and to use extensive registers, lists of judicial staff and simple guides to the legal systems of each member state. the european parliament should be fully involved in the development and approval of the rules on training for judicial staff, in particular the pilot projects provided for in the commission's action plan in accordance with articles 81 and 82 of the treaty. it is also very important that the european commission consult parliament on separate plans to create institutions based on existing structures and cooperation networks, in particular the european judicial training network and the academy of european law. adequate training of judicial staff and the creation of a european judicial culture can speed up judicial proceedings in cross-border cases and thus make a significant contribution to improving the functioning of the internal market for both businesses and citizens and to facilitating citizens' access to justice.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. as a second-term member of the european parliament's legal affairs committee, i am fully aware of the importance of the subject under discussion today. the creation of a european legal area, which has been our ambition for many years, is not possible without properly trained lawyers, including judges. the role of the national judge in ensuring that european law is respected cannot be overestimated. it should be recalled that it is national judges who have the possibility of referring to the european court of justice a question on the interpretation of eu law where there is a suspicion of a breach of it at national level. it is therefore clear that judges must have an excellent knowledge of eu law. today, this is not always the case: despite the formal primacy of eu law over national law, it is little known and sometimes even considered a necessary evil. i fully support the demands on the training of judges, which call for, among other things, the strengthening of the structures dealing with this training, namely the academy of european law and the european judicial training network. i also believe that such training should receive more union financial support, which should be taken into account in the context of the negotiations on the financial perspective for the years 2014-2020 which are just beginning.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i too would like to thank the rapporteur very warmly for this report, which is very well prepared. i would like to point out, however, that aquaculture is a very important element in terms of employment, particularly in terms of activating coastal areas, and in terms of healthy food. it must be said that without additional impetus, i.e. the regionalisation of aquaculture, it has no chance of developing in the relevant regions of europe. i am talking here about the baltic sea, for example, where aquaculture is a residual phenomenon and has no possibility of development because of the climatic conditions. for example, in sweden, only 200 people are employed in aquaculture, and even fewer in poland. i therefore pay particular attention to this aspect of the common fisheries policy.
madam president! i would like to begin by thanking my colleague guido milan for his report on a new impetus for a sustainable european aquaculture strategy. as we know, this is just one of many reports on this subject which have been prepared in the past and which seek to regulate this sector in europe. the key to success will be the european commission's presentation of a single solution covering not only all product categories and environmental aspects of the sector, but also budget lines and market rules, including eu quality labelling. europe has a real chance of joining the world's leaders in this field. we have the geographical and hydrological potential and the best specialised staff in the world. however, to take advantage of this, efforts must be made to establish a uniform community law covering the aquaculture sector. the timing is right, as the work on the reform of the common fisheries policy is under way. in conclusion, i would like to say that this is a very good report and that i have no objections to its content. a large number of relevant issues were raised in the report and the proposed approaches to the problems are consistent with the views of the polish sector in the vast majority of cases.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. thank you very much, mr rapporteur, for this report. it is extremely important because the correct recording of catches is the basis of scientific research, and this is scientific research above all, because it determines the state of the stocks and is the basis for the implementation of the common fisheries policy. the absence of proper research does not provide a basis for the proper implementation of the common fisheries policy. i'd like to refer to other species here. a few years ago we had a cod desert in the baltic, and today it turns out that the commission votes to raise the limits. does that mean that we have such excellent programs, or is it that we have imperfect scientific research? i have a huge request for more resources and efforts to make scientific research more accessible and more widely applied in all waters.
mr president, i propose that, when we speak in paragraph 2 about the modernisation of russia, we stipulate our understanding that it is not merely economy and technology, it is also society. so i propose to add, after the words ‘partnership for modernisation’, the words ‘which should embrace both economy and society’.
mr president, on paragraph 10, parliament has always taken the quasi-unanimous position, including in the report on a common european foreign policy on energy, that we always exclude the use of energy as a foreign policy tool. so, at the end of paragraph 10, i propose to add the following words: ‘excluding the use of energy as a foreign policy tool’.
mrs hautala has prepared a very good report. i thank her for that. if the conclusions of this report are implemented, the protection of human rights defenders by the european union will be significantly strengthened. that is an important and legitimate objective, and that is why i voted in favour of this report. we have a chance to save the lives of many human rights defenders around the world. let us do everything we can to ensure that they do not have to die in defense of the universal values we are trying to promote.
i too would like to congratulate mrs hautala and her colleagues in the green group who have tabled amendments concerning the situation of human rights and human rights defenders in russia. even if these issues were not discussed at the summit, i believe that, thanks to the vote by my group and also my own vote in favour of amendment no 3 tabled by mrs hautala, we will have a resolution which will more fully express our views on what is happening in russia itself and in relations between the european union and russia, where respect for fundamental rights, fundamental rights to associate, to express opinions by citizens should remain central to our external relations, including our relations with the russian federation.
mr. chairman, please! i did not take part in the vote because the text contains such serious errors of substance that i do not think it should have been put to the vote at all. i join my colleagues from the epp, mr takkula, in saying that condemning israel today and saying that it has broken international law before the international commission has said anything and demanding that the commission should do so at the same time is pointless and has no basis in reality. moreover, we are addressing here in this text in a different language to those who were in the shipping and to those who carried the shipments to gaza, and in a different language to the authorities and the citizens of israel, which causes unnecessary and incomprehensible emotions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the political strategy for human rights defenders. we all have a responsibility to uphold human rights. it's a condition of membership of the european union. unfortunately, not all member state governments are aware of this. the implementation of the eu guidelines on human rights defenders is therefore too slow and ineffective. eu delegations to third countries should develop local strategies in this regard as soon as possible and submit them to the european parliament in order to coordinate the common eu strategy on human rights defenders. i call for the promotion and protection of human rights defenders at all levels and in all aspects and instruments of the european union's foreign policy. human rights defenders must clearly feel that they are supported and protected by eu law. in the context of this strategy, i also stress the need to take gender into account in the implementation of the eu guidelines on human rights defenders. human rights defenders face greater difficulties in carrying out their work. it is because of their gender that they are exposed to higher occupational risks: acts of physical and psychological violence, sexual abuse, environmental ostracism. the increased risk of activity also affects journalists, defenders of minority rights, including especially religious and linguistic rights, and lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender rights.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it includes provisions recommending the widespread use of abortion, which is contrary to the eu's competences.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on sports agents. only five countries (bulgaria, france, greece, hungary, portugal) and four international federations (fiba, fifa, iaaf, irb) have separate laws regulating the activities of sports agents. it is therefore necessary to prepare a common eu strategy regulating the activities of sports agents. such a strategy will close the legal loopholes in this area and will allow the monitoring and control of the activities of agents. this is particularly important as, according to european commission research, sports agents play an important role in organising opaque and illegal corruption. such practices are particularly dangerous for young athletes who may become victims of trafficking. the current state of affairs is damaging to the image of sport, its integrity, credibility and its role in society. this is why it is so important to resolve the issue quickly and to develop a common strategy to ensure: 1. transparency of the transactions made by agents; 2. a ban on the payment of remuneration to agents for the transfer of underage players; 3. the introduction of minimum harmonised standards on contracts, supervision systems and discipline. i would also like to draw attention to the closer coordination of the european union's action in the fight against criminal activities in sport: 1. money laundering, 2. match-fixing, 3. human trafficking. it is good that the authorities and sports bodies share this view.
in writing. - each summit usually contributes to deepening the relationship between the participants. russia is not only an important strategic partner of the union, but also the closest one to us geographically. the union needs large partners who will join us in tackling international problems that go beyond the competence of individual countries in areas such as climate change, crisis management and energy security. although the union's position differs from that of russia on many issues, we must work closely together and mobilise russia to carry out the necessary reforms. the 'partnership for modernisation' initiative, which aims to liberalise the economy and democratize the political system, is a very important issue. given that trade liberalisation is mutually beneficial and the prospect of membership is a driver of change and reform, i support russia's membership of the wto. we should also look at the issue of eu visa policy in the context of the eastern partnership countries - why should russia be treated differently than, say, ukraine? although the talks are being held at eu level, moscow continues to pursue different policies with individual member states. it is in our interest that the eu should speak with one voice.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it contains clear provisions calling on russia not to use energy resources for political purposes.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because the ecr coordinator at afet was not allowed to negotiate on the joint draft resolution.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? i'm very happy that the north korean team played well against brazil. unfortunately, this good sports performance does not change the political situation on the korean peninsula, which is very tense. for me, there is no doubt that north korea is to blame for the escalation. north korea's declarations are a classic "turn the cat on the tail". the european union should be involved in actions to prevent war, and it is doing so. i hope that we can avoid the worst-case scenario of armed conflict. that is why i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation on the korean peninsula.
in writing. - in recent years there has been a significant development in freight transport. however, this trend does not continue in relation to rail transport. despite the union's extensive efforts to increase the competitiveness of rail transport, we are seeing a gradual decline in railway market shares in freight transport. over more than thirty years (1970-2005), its shares have declined by 10%. it is therefore necessary to create an efficient, environmentally friendly and safe rail transport system for both citizens and economic operators, which will increase the competitiveness of this transport and reverse the current unfavourable market situation. to meet this challenge, consolidated transnational cooperation between all member states is necessary. in addition, in view of the recent events in europe following the eruption of the icelandic volcano, which resulted in the paralysis of air traffic, the priority should be to establish trans-european rail transport networks as soon as possible. it should also be added that rail transport is environmentally friendly, faster and does not require as extensive infrastructure as road transport. the creation of european freight corridors seems to be the right step to initiate fruitful international cooperation in the field of rail transport. i am convinced that this will contribute to the creation of a well-functioning european internal transport market. the creation of a competitive transnational system will contribute to the cohesion of the european union's economic development. i am deeply convinced that its creation will have economic, environmental and economic benefits.
the author. yesterday, in this room, we talked about protecting human rights defenders around the world in a general way. today we are dealing with a very specific case of floribert chebeya bahizire, who was killed because he was a human rights defender. everything points to the fact that he was killed for who he was and what he did. those who were behind this murder probably had some agenda of their own. we don't know all the details, but we do know one thing: these goals were in total opposition to our goals, which is to consistently uphold human rights. human rights defenders are attacked because their work raises public awareness, and because rights-conscious citizens are a major threat to the abuses of power. the congo is a big and important country. the murder of floribert chebeya bahizire must be explained. the perpetrators must be punished justly, and therefore the investigation must be independent, credible, thorough and honest. that is what we demand in our resolution.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am co-author of the draft of our joint resolution. in november, just a few months from now, the representatives of our parliament will be in this very country - the democratic republic of congo. the next meeting of the eu-african, caribbean and pacific parliamentary assembly is to be held there. how are we supposed to act? what are we supposed to do, look at our hosts' faces? we can't keep quiet about this. this is a matter of the utmost importance. human rights cannot be just a slogan or a slogan or something that comes very easily to politicians. it's the concrete that people pay with their lives, even in the country we're talking about. the european parliament must not only speak, but also speak out.
on behalf of the ecr group. i think what we're dealing with is that when africa asks for support, when african countries seek some form of cooperation with the european union, we try to support those ideas, we try to help africa. in situations like the one we're dealing with now, when it comes to a certain standard of human rights and a standard of explaining such tragic situations as the death of a human rights defender, we have to be just as radical and just as determined. i would like to emphasize only one point: the key element in this matter is the resolution which calls for the establishment of an independent, credible and diligent committee to clarify the question of this tragic murder.
the author. benjamin franklin once said of the american constitution that "the constitution does not guarantee happiness to anyone, only the pursuit of it". today, nepalese citizens cannot even count on the pursuit of happiness. the constitution is dragging on, and the main political actors, including the communist party of nepal and the maoists, are not ready to compromise, while the military is still shrouded in secrecy regarding funding and recruitment patterns. at the other end of the spectrum, far from government structures, there are 30 million citizens living in extreme poverty, illiteracy, without access to electricity or communications. nepal is trapped in poverty, squandering the natural potential of its strategic geographical location and extraordinary nature. we therefore call on the nepalese authorities not to throw away the peace agreement reached in 2008 but to consistently pursue the promulgation of a new constitution that would not only define the rights and duties of citizens but could become a symbol of a new democratic charter in the history of the federal democratic republic of nepal. as a member from a country marked by historical divisions, i understand the difficult period nepal is going through. the constitution and international appeals will not guarantee happiness for the nepalese people, but they can help in the pursuit of it.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the situation in nepal has been a concern for observers for years. although the first democratic elections were held in 1959, these democratic solutions were very fragile, torn by acts of aggression. in recent years, it seemed that we had seen some progress in security. first, in 2006, a comprehensive peace agreement was reached, ending a decade of civil war. later in 2008, elections were held for a constituent assembly, which international observers found to meet a number of international standards. sadly, though, the situation in that land has deteriorated. the decision taken by political parties in recent days to act to expand the powers of the constituent assembly could be an important step towards returning to peaceful governance of the country. the european union and its member states should support all efforts to bring about peace and stability in the country. it is also necessary to remind the public of the need to respect human rights, the rights of christians, which are unfortunately being violated in this country too.
i won't read, i'll talk, but i promise i'll be free, even though it's against my nature. the situation in nepal is paradoxically improving, and this is thanks to recent decisions, the increase in the power of - let's call it - the parliament, although nepal is at the beginning of a very long road. this decade of civil war has left a great mark on this country and it's really only now that we're seeing some light at the end of the tunnel. what can the european parliament do? it can certainly support these democratic changes in the country, but it must be remembered that the political parties that are operating there have their own specific proposals, reform projects and visions for the development of the country, maoist, communist proposals, and therefore by definition very controversial.
i happened to live in nepal for a few years, at a time when the nepalese people were making a huge effort to change and improve their political system. i was very optimistic about this then, over 20 years ago. turns out this process is a lot harder than any of us could have imagined. nepal is a country of vast, rich and ancient culture. these are people of deep and serious religion. these are people of peace and peaceful attitude toward the world. we're talking about a lot of economic potential here. there's no economic potential there. it's a dramatic country with virtually no natural resources. besides, it's plagued by droughts and earthquakes. i'm making the effort. and that's why he's in such a difficult situation, because he's being crushed by two huge and very difficult neighbors. if we do not give nepal all the help (political and material) it can end up like tibet, and that would be a huge and tragic loss for all of us.
mr. chairman, please! at the end of may, 18 people were executed in libya. reports say that 200 people are being held, including citizens of other countries awaiting execution. this number may actually be higher, as there are no officially available statistics and data. libya has a double standard. on the one hand, she was elected to the human rights council and the un, which entails increased responsibility in the field of human rights. on the other hand, we are dealing with the execution of numerous successive executions. article 6 of the international covenant on civil and political rights, to which libya is a party, requires parties that have not abolished the death penalty to apply it only for the most serious crimes. in fact, libyan courts typically hand out death sentences for murder, drug-related crimes, or even for peaceful activities and basic rights such as the right to freedom of expression and association. i call for cooperation and understanding between the european union and libya to be made conditional on libya ratifying and implementing the geneva convention on refugees and other important human rights conventions and protocols.
the right to life and the protection of dignity are fundamental human rights. thus, most countries in the world, representing more than two-thirds of the international community, have either abolished the death penalty altogether or have imposed a moratorium on its use. the resumption of capital punishment in any country is a return to the dark ages. the execution of 18 people in libya constitutes a flagrant violation of human rights. the closure of the office of the un high commissioner for refugees and the expulsion of 26 of its staff from libya was an act against the 12,000 refugees they had been dealing with. the conclusion of an immigration agreement with libya must be conditional upon libya's signature of the geneva convention on the international law of refugees and other relevant human rights conventions and protocols. human rights are a fundamental value in the european union. the rights of refugees must be guaranteed.
i just wanted to give you a little heads-up. i just got back from a two-day official visit to russia this morning. it was the first visit by a president of the european parliament to the country in 12 years. in moscow, i met with president medvedev, the chairman of the state duma, boris gryzlov, the chairman of the federation council, sergei mironov, and the ministers of foreign affairs and energy. we discussed eu-russia relations in the framework of the partnership for modernisation and the negotiations for a new agreement between the union and the russian federation. a number of other issues were also raised, including the human rights issue. i also met with representatives of civil society organisations, including memorial (winner of the 2009 sakharov prize). while i was in moscow, there was an escalation in the gas dispute between belarus and russia, as you know. i have conveyed my concern to the russian authorities and called on the parties to the conflict to honour their contractual obligations regarding the supply of gas to the european union. i also pointed out that the relevant agreements between belarus and russia should include appropriate clauses that guarantee the supply of gas to the european union. we're all about supply chain security. the council and the commission are also studying the matter at the moment, and perhaps the representatives of both institutions will be able to give us an updated assessment of the situation during this part-session. anyway, this case is evolving, and we're getting new information every few hours.
i'd like to inform you that the members of the indonesian parliamentary delegation have taken the seats reserved for official guests. i would like to extend a warm welcome to them, and in particular to the president, his excellency kemal aziz stamboel. the delegation of the indonesian parliament is in parliament today for the seventh interparliamentary meeting between the european parliament and the indonesian parliament. as you know, it's a growing society and economy. it plays an important role in the world, particularly in the association of southeast asian nations (asean). it was the first country with which the european union signed a partnership and cooperation agreement in november 2009. it is my great pleasure to welcome them to our midst today.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the european council and the european commission on the conclusions of the european council of 17 june 2010.
mr president, fiscal and financial reforms – pivotal as they are – are not a substitute for structural change and competitive growth policies. that is why, firstly, i would like to address briefly the role of cohesion policy in the delivery mechanism of the eu 2020. in its conclusions, the council sent us a clear message to integrate cohesion policy in the implementation of the eu 2020. after all, according to the recent march communication from the european commission, this policy area was the only truly successful strand in the delivery of the lisbon strategy. why? because, it sets out binding guidelines or conditions for the transfer of european resources to a member state, region or city. it also gives member states and regions the scope to translate common european objectives into their own reality. it is efficiently adapted to monitor and support the achievement of goals; and last but not least, it has an efficient sanctions mechanism. on economic governance, i strongly support the idea of going beyond fiscal surveillance towards the competitiveness-related factors which generate or contribute to imbalances. i also believe we should state today – clearly, urgently and loudly – why fiscal surveillance did not work and why the stability and growth pact did not deliver. continuing to rely exclusively on decentralised fiscal discipline might give us ‘better’ european governance but it will not give us ‘good’ european governance.
mr. chairman, please! the recent crisis in europe shows how big a problem it is that despite the lisbon treaty, europe is not sufficiently integrated when it comes to economic governance. but it is a whole - a problem of one, two or three countries is a problem for all of europe. it is therefore right that this matter should be discussed in the council. the conclusions reached there are, in my opinion, in the right direction. we need budget coordination, sanctions for countries that break standards and rules. it is also good that there is no exclusive euro club. it is extremely important to remember that the euro is a currency that will be shared not only by those who are in the euro area today, but also by those who express a desire to be in it. it is important that they too can participate in those decisions which affect the euro area itself, so that in the future they can be fully co-hosts.
president of the commission. − mr president, some of the people who asked me these questions are no longer here. anyway, i will respond. first of all, regarding the role of the european parliament in the europe 2020 strategy. that has been a concern of many of you, including corien wortmann-kool who has been a very important leader in this parliament regarding the rights of parliament in establishing this strategy. i think the european parliament has a key role to play. it is our common responsibility to be successful in exiting the crisis and returning to growth. our member states must do much better on the delivery of structural reforms and fiscal consolidation than they have done over the last decade. the european parliament will have to play a key role as colegislator in adopting legislation put forward to implement the flagship initiatives. the commission has recently adopted the first flagship initiative for a digital agenda; six more flagship initiatives will follow before the end of 2010. it is a very intensive programme. these flagships will entail a set of legislative proposals and the commission is counting on the european parliament’s support to deal with flagships and proposed legislation in a rapid and coherent fashion. i am looking for a commitment from the european parliament to fast-track the adoption of those initiatives. secondly, i believe the european parliament should play a much more active role than it did under the lisbon strategy in defining and monitoring the europe 2020 strategy. this calls for taking timely, proactive, common positions. the european parliament could also play a role in mobilising national parliaments. i think there is now room for shifting this dialogue away from general discussions on europe 2020 – the kind of general discussion held in the first phase and which i have been participating in for some time – and move towards much more specific issues, such as the five core themes of the strategy: employment policies, r&d innovation, energy efficiency, education and fighting poverty, and monitoring national performance. national parliaments must become key actors in monitoring their government’s performance and commitments to the proper implementation of their national europe 2020 strategies, targets and european union recommendations. this is a very important point. i know that some of you are not happy. i would also have preferred a higher level of ambition in terms of the monitoring of the strategy. in fact there are considerable improvements, and i would like to ask you not to underestimate the potential of these improvements. the fact that there will now be national reform programmes and specific national targets makes it possible to monitor, in a concrete manner, not only what is being done generally by europe but what each country is doing in all those matters. this can be done, and should be done – if i can express an opinion – by the european parliament, with the other institutions of course. the first point on this priority is poverty – also because of this year being the year on poverty. i like what some of you have said, namely mr méndez de vigo and others, that we should take advantage of this year being the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion, to launch some active policies. it was not easy to get the target agreed at european level; some expressed doubts in terms of subsidiarity. at the end it was possible to get some kind of commitment and so i think we should already make that a visible action now this year, because the social reality of europe is in a state of emergency. coming back to europe 2020, parliament, as a budgetary authority, will have to play its role in the definition of the next multiannual financial framework. budget priorities must reflect europe 2020 priorities. we will present our budget review in september. i think that will be the moment to engage in a broad discussion about the future of our financial perspectives, namely some of the ideas that have also been suggested in the preliminary discussions with the parliament. i want to pay tribute to the working paper of alain lamassoure that has been presented to the committee on budgets this week, on how to finance europe 2020 in times of crisis. i believe in the ideas that have been put forward. how we can decide on what could be spent at european level and what can be spent at national level is indeed something for parliament, working also with the other institutions. on behalf of the commission i want to tell you that we are committed to working with you in that area. another point made by mr cashman, who is no longer here, was on mdgs. i fully share everything he said on this; the need to keep the momentum on this matter. especially, now where there is every constraint on the budgets of our member states, it would be difficult to be sure about their commitment. from that point of view the conclusions of the council are good. it is a point that is made in the letter that i along with president van rompuy addressed to the g20 colleagues; taking into consideration the commitments made by our member states, we are reaffirming on behalf of the european union that the european union remains committed to support the achievement on the mdgs globally by 2015. we believe that this is possible if all partners demonstrate firm commitment. so that is a point that we are going to bring to the g20 and g8 outreach meetings this weekend in canada. some of you also asked about stress testing. i think it was a very positive announcement, a positive signal ahead of the g20 summit in toronto, an important step to restore confidence in europe’s banks and europe’s economic prospects. the details of the commitment made at the european council last week, including the exact scope of the exercise, are currently being discussed by all relevant stakeholders, in particular by the committee of european banking supervisors, the respective national supervisors and the respective ministers of finance. the ultimate decision on this issue will be taken in the next few days. we are, as a commission, playing an important part in this process; we need to advocate an approach that would ensure having as representative a sample as possible, while taking into account the timeframe set for the publication of the results in the second half of july. there is a delicate balance to be struck. i also believe that the result should ideally take into account the most recent development in sovereign debt markets. the credibility of the exercise will be considerably enhanced if it properly addresses the recent pressures in sovereign debt markets. i understand the committee of european banking supervisors has been considering this issue with the participation of all parties concerned, including the commission. the ultimate decision in this regard will be taken in the next few days. finally, some of you mentioned the issue of the oil leak in the gulf of mexico. just yesterday i had a meeting with the ceo of bp to be sure that they are taking all the necessary measures and that they are drawing all the lessons from that ecological catastrophe. in fact i think that not only that company but generally speaking the industry have to draw lessons from it. they gave me assurances that they are taking all the necessary steps to ensure that their operations, particularly those in and around the european union, are undertaken with the safety of citizens and the environment as a corporate priority.we are currently reviewing applicable eu legislation. in fact we had been working on this before this crisis; at meetings with the baltic states some of our partners, for instance finland, raised the issue of the possible consequences of this kind of ecological catastrophe in the baltics and what could we do. we are already working on this. i believe that a hasty or premature regulatory response to events in the gulf should be avoided. in fact no regulatory regime can give a 100% guarantee of safety. much depends on the attitude and practices of the industry itself. however, the commission will not hesitate to propose changes in europe if the current analysis, namely the investigation in the gulf of mexico, reveals weaknesses. we are intensifying our contacts and dialogues with national authorities and regulators. furthermore commissioner oettinger in cooperation with commissioners georgieva and potočnik established contacts with all of the industry in early may for a meeting that they are holding this week. we have been also coordinating through the mic assistance in response operations; member states and the european maritime safety agency have responded promptly. this was an example of initiatives that the commission is taking. i am coming now to the last point made by mario mauro, i want to reassure him and the parliament that of course the commission will take all its initiatives in the spirit of good cooperation with all the other institutions. as i said before and in another meeting, yes the commission is the economic government of europe in matters that have been transferred from national member states to the european union, but of course we need to work in cooperation with all the institutions. the european council has also an extremely important role to play. that is in the treaty and we are cooperating there. the president of the commission attends the european council as, of course, does the european parliament. so i think it is in this spirit of partnership that we can indeed make our project go forward and i really want to thank those members of the european parliament who show this extraordinary patience – this is the kind of resilience that we need for our economy as well.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
in writing. strategy 2020 has been adopted. it leaves much to be desired, but its ambitious goals are optimistic. it is up to the member states to make the effort and commit themselves to the new strategy to share the sad fate of the previous one, to contribute to building a modern eu economy that is competitive in a globalised world and to improve the quality of life of europeans. given the different levels of socioeconomic development, the strategy rightly envisages different ways of achieving its objectives by the individual countries. the adoption of the three poverty indicators has increased the target group of the poverty programme from 80 million to 120 million, while maintaining the eu target of reducing poverty to 20 million. i hope all countries will take an ambitious approach to this task. poverty is not just a material issue, it's one of the most important social issues. the existence of poverty compromises all those who do not act against it and thus contribute to its continuation. let's not let the fight against poverty be just a buzzword this time. in my country, according to eurostat, the poverty rate is 17% of the polish population. i look forward to poland's plans to fight poverty and i assure you that i will support all efforts in this regard. the polish left says poverty is a definite no. it is a shame that in the 21st century so many europeans are excluded from a decent life because of lack of resources.
in writing. the crisis in europe today has shown that no country can stand alone. even the largest economies in the european union are now increasingly in favour of strengthening community mechanisms, and this should be the direction of our action. but there can be no two-speed europe, no two-speed europe, and we cannot allow a european union to be made worse or better. paradoxically, the countries seeking to join the eurozone today, and poland in particular, are mostly going through the current crisis in a benign manner. we have therefore today the favourable conditions for strengthening the community method, for strengthening the commission, for transferring powers from the national levels. this is supported by the european parliament, whose role must also be taken into account for the transparency of the whole process, from the very beginning.
in writing. – as we have seen, many different and important issues were addressed by the council last week during the 17 june meeting. i would appreciate a moment of your time to concentrate on what was discussed concerning the millennium development goals. ten years ago, the european union agreed to eradicate world poverty in all its key dimensions by 2015. with only five years to go it is essential that we take the necessary steps to ensure that this deadline is met. while some significant progress has been made, i believe that the upcoming un high plenary meeting on the millennium development goals offers us a unique opportunity to demonstrate our commitment to accomplishing this monumental task. i agree and support the council’s position to urge the high plenary meeting to focus on taking concrete actions aimed at increasing ownership by developing countries; focusing efforts; improving the impact of policies; mobilising more and predictable financing for development; and making more effective use of developmental resources. the decisions and actions we take now will determine whether we offer excuses or congratulations five years from now. let us commit ourselves to the latter.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on wednesday 23 june 2010.
i'll start with some notes and information. as you know, europe has once again been hit by a flood disaster. this time in romania, at least 25 people have been killed by the floods, and thousands have been forced to flee their homes. four european union countries have already declared their support for romania in the fight against the elements. the floods also affected asturias in northern spain, causing heavy material damage. several other european countries also report exceptional rainfall. there is also information that these unrecorded atmospheric phenomena are linked to climate change. secondly, i would like to draw your attention to the iranian baha'i religious community. last week, 50 homes of members of this community were destroyed. there's also a trial in iran against seven baha'is. we want iran to fully comply with international standards. the european parliament has repeatedly called in its resolutions and declarations for the rights of religious minorities in iran to be respected. we have also repeatedly condemned the use of the death penalty, especially on minors. we are deeply concerned by reports that in iran, which has signed the convention on the rights of the child, persons who were minors at the time of the alleged crime are still awaiting execution. third information: july 13th is the 10th anniversary of the death of jan karski. in 1942, jan karski presented the first report to the highest allied authorities on the extermination of the jewish people in occupied europe. he got his information by infiltrating the ghetto and one of the death camps. it was the first report of its kind during the war. after the war, karski never returned to europe. as a university professor in the united states, he spoke very favourably of european integration and promoted it on the american continent.
the final draft agenda drawn up in accordance with rule 137 of the rules of procedure was distributed by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 1 july 2010. the following changes were proposed:on monday, the greens/efa group and the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats in the european parliament requested the referral back of ms gallo's report on improving the enforcement of intellectual property rights in the internal market. i'm giving the floor to mr. cohn-bendit.
the group of european conservatives and reformists has proposed that the agenda for debates on human rights, democracy and the rule of law be changed to thursday afternoons as follows: zimbabwe first, then venezuela and north korea.
would anyone like to speak out against it? please, mr. chairman!
the next item is the joint debate on the recommendation for second reading on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism on the position to be taken by the council at first reading on the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on passenger rights in bus and coach transport and amending council regulation (ec) no 2006/2004 (05218/3/2010 - c7-0077/2010 - http://www.europarl.europa.eu/oeil/findbyprocnum.do?lang=en&procnum=cod/2008/0237" ) (rapporteur: antonio cancian) (http://www.europarl.europa.eu/sides/doc.do?lang=typereport&reference=a7-0174&language=pl"); the draft recommendation for second reading on the position to be taken by the council at first reading on the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on passenger rights in bus and coach transport and amending council regulation (ec) no 2006/2004 (05218/3/2010 - c7-0077/2010 - http://www.europarl.europa.eu/oeil/do?lang=en/procnum=codocnum=t&l/index=2070) and the second reading on the proposal for a regulation of the council on the position to be taken by the european parliament and the council on passenger rights in bus and coach transport and coach transport and coach transport and the first reading on the adoption of the first reading of regulation (http://www.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on a very good job, which is important for the shape of the future white paper. i agree that improving the efficiency of the transport system is a key issue for the european union, but to achieve this objective, the strategic integration of community instruments is necessary. as a key instrument for the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, cohesion policy should play a leading role in sectoral policies, leading to the full integration of all member states into the european network and supporting the progressive deployment of smart solutions. the european union should have instruments to support the improvement of the efficiency of transport networks, including for cross-border projects. however, the transport fund cannot be set up at the expense of cohesion policy funds. we should seek to reinforce transport policy and cohesion policy at the same time, rather than weaken existing instruments.
mr. chairman, please! the transport sector is one of the fundamental elements of the development of the union and its regions. it plays a key role in the economy and in employment. it allows the free movement of union citizens and goods throughout europe. it also has a direct impact on the development and social cohesion of regions and on the quality of life, health and safety of citizens. it is of particular importance that co2 emissions from road transport are reduced through appropriate innovation. some passenger and freight transport should be transferred from road to rail or water transport in order to reduce congestion on existing roads. we should develop modern forms of public transport in cities. it is important that the different modes of transport do not compete artificially with each other, but that they support and complement each other, creating a sustainable transport system. transport policy should be more efficient and effective.
we've had a very interesting debate here today about the future of transportation. this debate is taking place at the same time as the debate on the 2014-2020 budget is taking place here in parliament. my question is: should we not budget for more transport for the next six years, and in particular should not the next few years be years of special effort in rail transport? because we all think that's a transport that would take the strain off the road. it is a very environmentally friendly transport, but it is not enough to just talk about it, we have to provide much more resources for this purpose in the next six years.
in writing. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the report by mr grosch, which we are debating today, is undoubtedly important in shaping the future of european transport for the next 10 years. the exceptional amount of divergence and the difficulty of finding a common compromise are the result of the diversity of transport in european countries and the complex social and geopolitical situation in the european union. i would like to draw your attention to a number of aspects of the document, including the need to achieve sustainability in transport by establishing a european transport area. i think the big threat is the broad concept of "decarbonisation". i would stress that to achieve this, we must start investing heavily in new technologies. we cannot ignore the use of energy sources which are sufficiently green, such as biofuels. the agglomeration from which i come, silesia, like many similar ones in europe, needs support, not just regional. hence my emphasis on the urban space. to enrich the message, i suggested that additional documents such as the action plan for freight transport logistics, the monitoring of the development of rail transport, be included, thus underlining the importance of the railway as a strategic element in ensuring the proper functioning of the entire sector.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to begin by joining in thanking the rapporteur for her work. i would point out that the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon will have a major impact on the work of the commission, although the adaptation of the commission's work to the new treaty conditions is an objective which will require further implementation. in this new situation, parliament should play a major role, especially in the work on the new citizens' initiative, so that this instrument can fulfil its purpose in the decision-making process of the european union. the committee on petitions plays a major role in the exercise of parliament's powers of scrutiny. it is worth mentioning the example of complaints against the activities of german youth offices which impeded the exercise of parental rights by a parent from a member state other than germany. this issue was examined by the committee, which pointed out irregularities in this respect. the committee on petitions also plays an important role in monitoring the work of the european commission. examples include the report on the preparations for the nord stream project and the suspicion that all environmental requirements have not been met. the third important factor to be borne in mind in the context of the discussion of the work of the committee on petitions is the legally binding nature of the charter of fundamental rights. this will also be the subject of further intensive work by the committee.
mr. chairman, please! the report shows very well how important the committee on petitions and the whole petition system is to european democracy. we respond to people's everyday problems, but what is also very important is that citizens inform us of non-compliance with european law by the institutions in the member states or by the member states themselves. and we in the committee on petitions discuss these cases and close them, but we don't know at all afterwards whether the member countries have taken our findings into account. so we lack real mechanisms to monitor whether our actions have had an effect and whether our conclusions have been heard and taken into account. it's also hard to be in control if you don't have follow-up, if you don't know what's going on. and then what happens is that some petitions start coming back to us. the complaints are starting to come in. one such example is the 2006 petition, which is now coming to us in 2010, and we will be looking at it again. the author opposed the construction of a russian-german gas pipeline on the bottom of the baltic sea, pointing out the dangers to the environment. and in 2008, the european parliament adopted a report calling for a halt to the construction of the northern gas pipeline on the bottom of the baltic sea. our committee has asked the european commission to check whether the assessment of the whole situation was made in a reliable manner and whether the european commission followed up on the matter. it turns out that there was no monitoring the case comes back to us again, so we need to think and create a monitoring system, what happens next with our petitions that have been closed.
mr. chairman, please! interesting report, interesting work by this committee. it has been very popularised recently, particularly in the previous term, by some reports, but at the same time the conclusions of the rapporteur are interesting, and i would like to highlight the need for better cooperation with national parliaments or the availability of information for citizens. and here i also fully agree with mrs gruny that the role of petitions, the ombudsman's work and the role that the citizens' initiative can play should be more widely disseminated. at the same time, i think it is very important to inform about the progress of the petition, but also about the implementation of the resolution that is the result of the activities of the committee on petitions. the resolution on nord stream has been adopted, but at the same time citizens, for example in my country, are asking themselves what to do next. what is the effect of this resolution? and that is the real answer to what the european parliament is doing.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to start by pointing out and emphasising the growing importance of the committee on petitions as an institution that rightly comes to the aid of the average eu citizen. the right to petition the european parliament is an important form of democracy at eu level. for many people affected by various problems, it is an important form of defending their interests. i would like to point out the need for the parliament's committee on petitions to cooperate and liaise with their counterparts in the national parliaments in order to create a common and complementary system for the protection of citizens' rights. the control functions of the committee on petitions are of particular importance in relation to the activities of the european commission. finally, i would like to say that we need to bring the competences of the various eu and national institutions closer to our citizens.
mr president, i would like to come back to the discussion that we had today......o inicjatywie obywatelskiej. chciałabym, żebyśmy jeszcze raz położyli na to bardzo duży nacisk. mam wrażenie, że opuściliśmy w tej dyskusji dzisiejszej element komunikacji społecznej taki, na który kładliśmy nacisk, kiedy promowaliśmy traktat lizboński. mówiliśmy często obywatelom, że jest to największa innowacja traktatu lizbońskiego, że obywatele naprawdę będą traktowani podmiotowo. a tym czasem nie widzę wystarczającego zaangażowania parlamentu europejskiego w komunikowanie tej sprawy. rozmawiałam z bardzo wieloma obywatelami o inicjatywie obywatelskiej: oni na ogół nie bardzo wiedzą, że ona istnieje. musimy bardzo szybko i sprawnie skończyć prace nad tą inicjatywą i udostępnić ją obywatelom. nie straćmy tej szansy, żeby przybliżyć instytucje obywatelom. właśnie taka szansa w tej chwili zaistniała.
mr. chairman, please! my personal experience has led me to draw the attention of the european parliament to the issue of medical care for meps in emergency situations outside europe. my case, and the case of haiti after it, illustrate the need to create precise regulations for members who require constant medical care during repatriation. there is no appropriate unit in parliament to organise the return of a member in such situations. i think that there should be a body in parliament responsible for this kind of situation. mr. chairman, please! my dear colleagues! i would like to take this opportunity to thank you for your concern for my well-being during this difficult time. i would like to thank in particular the doctors and the entire medical staff of the first hospital in shanghai for their excellent care and mrs petrze claes, mr estela burriel and mr lorenzo manelli of the european parliament for their commitment and the great help they have given me. thank you from the bottom of my heart.
the economic crisis is affecting many people. i want to point out the need, or even the necessity, for special protective measures to be taken against the poor, the excluded, the elderly and the unemployed and the young. youth make up the largest group of unemployed. often, they enter adulthood with no prospects, with a weak starting position. we know that the best way to survive this crisis is to educate, to invest in your own development. in times of crisis, jobs are being eliminated, factories are being closed. fortunately, there are universities and other colleges. there are also various forms of continuing education. therefore, appropriate forms of support for education and young people should be created. it is good that, on the initiative of the rapporteur, ms sidonia jędrzewska, one of the priorities of the 2011 budget is youth.
mr. chairman, please! the belgian presidency of the european union began on 1 july. unlike previous presidencies, the belgian government did not set out its priorities, but only drew up a work programme adapted to the eu calendar. the question is therefore whether the issues of importance to the citizens of the european union will be addressed during this six-month period. the belgian government has said that it will review eu legislation and disaster response during its presidency. this is very important, especially in the context of the floods that have recently hit not only my country, poland, but also romania, slovakia, hungary and france. people affected by such tragedies expect quick and efficient help and good coordination of the response. i hope that despite the internal problems during the belgian presidency, the work on this matter will be undertaken as announced. at the same time, i would like to thank all those who rushed to help the victims of the floods, not only in poland, but also in other countries of the european union that were affected by this tragedy.
mr. chairman, please! on june 21, russia cut gas supplies to belarus, while announcing that there could be further cuts if the country fails to pay some $200 million in payments. the commission has not received any comments from the belarusian authorities on the measures taken by the union in the context of the current anti-dumping proceeding. the experts concluded that this was to be used, inter alia, to induce belarus to sign the customs code, aiming at the establishment of a customs union, or to induce belarus to comply with the contract, to obtain market prices for exports to belarus, as well as to induce belarus to sell strategic companies, e.g. transmission networks. but it could also affect the image of a transit country and therefore justify investments such as southstream or nordstream. at the same time, i wanted to ask the european commission to assess the effectiveness of the early warning mechanisms for interruptions in the supply of energy resources, since we have an agreement with russia signed on 16 november 2009.
mr. chairman, please! mobility and education of young people are the budgetary priorities of the european parliament for 2011. we have just adopted our mandate to negotiate the 2011 budget of the european union in this chamber a few weeks ago. for me, the report by mrs emilie turunen shows very clearly that these areas, namely youth mobility and education, require increased attention and active action. it should be stressed that ms turunen's report is further evidence of the crucial importance of ensuring educational conditions and promoting all practical forms of youth mobility in order to implement the 2020 strategy. facilitating the entry of young people into the labour market is also a necessary action to reduce the overall unemployment rate in the european union, which is the biggest obstacle and block to economic growth. it is all the more important that the negotiated budget of the european union should contain the appropriate means to achieve the objectives described in the report.
mr. chairman, please! unemployment is a problem that has hit the european union particularly hard in recent years, exacerbated by the economic crisis. this problem is compounded by the fact that more and more young people are graduating from school, from college, and wanting to start their own lives. in addition to the severe social and psychological consequences of unemployment for young people, the massive scale of the phenomenon also has a very negative impact on the economy of individual countries. we cannot allow the next generation of union citizens to face the spectre of social discrimination and a dire economic situation, and we must therefore do everything in our power to guarantee young people a sound education with work experience and a fair wage, ensuring decent living conditions and a start to adult life.
mr. chairman, please! i have also read the report prepared by the honourable member with great attention. and i have to say, this is an extremely complex problem. youth unemployment is two-fold. first, the measures we should take to ensure that graduates who have completed their training can actually find jobs. and this is what all the policies of the european union, including the agricultural policy, should be about. and in the reform of the common agricultural policy, we should ensure that the appropriate programmes, projects and financing for these purposes have their place in the entire budget of the european union. and the second thing is social projects that will lead to young people being able to develop their households and also have a high quality public service. i am thinking here of schools, of kindergartens and of nurseries, which are so sorely lacking even in very large cities, let alone in small towns and villages throughout the european union.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to thank you for this report and say that biowaste should not be seen as a problem, as something that pollutes the environment and has a negative impact on the economy. there is a huge potential in the proper use of these by-products. by managing bio-waste properly, we can produce renewable energy that contributes to economic growth, reduce climate change through a properly managed recycling process or contribute to reducing soil degradation by using waste to produce high-quality compost. of course, to create the right infrastructure and to encourage companies to carry out research and innovation, adequate financial resources are needed. however, the costs incurred will contribute to the future improvement of the economy and the quality of life of citizens, so the game is worth the proverbial candle.
mr. chairman, please! i too would like to congratulate the reports and draw attention to a few elements which are relevant throughout the european union. well, we still don't have a solution to the problem of waste segregation, and just as some municipalities have managed to do that, so many regions, not just in poland, but in the european union, are far behind. without good segregation, there is no possibility of good use of biowaste, and there are many possibilities. i'm thinking here primarily about biogas. and these are projects that absolutely should be developed across the european union and supported by funds, both those funds at the regional level, but also biogas at a very local level because the production and distribution of electricity from gas plants is much more economical than from other sources.
mr. chairman, please! thank you very much for the opportunity to speak. i wanted to thank you for this report which sets out the direction for the management of biodegradable waste. i mean, 30% of it is compostable. of course, the most important thing is to have recycling systems. unfortunately, the countries of central and eastern europe do not have effectively implemented directives. in this respect, the efficiency of increasing recycling, including composting, which is the best and most natural way to deal with this waste, should be improved. but it also seems to be a very reasonable view of the possibility of energy recovery. i would like to give an example of denmark, which has been the largest user of renewable energy in the field of biogas. this is an example for the whole of europe of how we can manage with renewable energy on such a large scale. it seems appropriate that the future financial agenda strategy 2020 should provide for measures to support such development in the member states.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? i would like to begin by thanking the shadow rapporteurs for their fruitful cooperation in producing a document of major importance for a number of areas of community activity. the report 'the european union strategy for the baltic sea region and the role of macro-regions in future cohesion policy' highlights the cooperation of the regions to achieve objectives across a range of policies, including transport, fisheries, energy, agriculture and research. this ambitious plan was made possible in 2004 when eight of the nine baltic states joined the european union. the priority areas for cooperation within the macro-region are transport policy and environmental protection. they are linked by the need to equalise infrastructure standards and by the fact that they perfectly reflect the structure of interdependence of the member states that is characteristic of this approach. in the baltic area, effective action to combat pollution and ecosystem damage cannot be achieved without integrated action by each of the countries bordering the region. secondly, cooperation within the macro-region is undoubtedly beneficial and contributes to creating a favourable environment for innovation. by harnessing the immense intellectual potential of its inhabitants, we can increase the competitiveness of the economy of the whole macro-region. this in turn will be of vital importance for the development of the european union as a whole, for which a stronger position and a more stable economic situation are of undeniable strategic importance. thirdly, we must not forget the social objectives. the creation of conditions for the well-being of citizens, the integration of cultural, educational and tourist elements into projects is of paramount importance. in addition, support for the development of civil society, which is the basis of a democratic political system, will further contribute to strengthening the integration process. but we cannot talk about these changes unless the general living conditions of the population improve. the creation of new jobs must therefore be actively and continuously promoted. the european union strategy for the pioneering pilot baltic sea macro-region is now an important reference point in the debate on the future of cohesion policy after 2013. currently, projects implemented under the strategy benefit from the funds under the said policy. however, given their multisectoral nature, today's debate should be directed towards the near future, with a view to establishing the specific methods, sources and appropriate way of financing macro-regional strategies in the future programming period. with these strategies in mind for the future, we are very hopeful about the european commission's intention to create a database of best practices, which will allow us to closely monitor and draw examples from the activities already in place. in the interests of maximum efficiency of the programmes under the baltic strategy and subsequent macro-regional projects, we call on the commission to develop instruments and objective criteria for the protection of existing activities. this will enable the medium-term analysis of the strategy's implementation to serve as a reference point for future such projects. the key questions to be answered are: are these strategies to be implemented under cohesion policy and how are they to be financed in order to make effective use of the eu funds? i am very pleased to see the idea of the macro-region developing. they all have the opportunity to focus across borders on issues of importance to territorial cohesion, i.e. to put into practice the idea of integration that the european union has promoted from the beginning. the creation of functional regions that share the same objectives also has the potential to increase the effectiveness of regional policy. ladies and gentlemen! the baltic sea is a model and an incentive for further macro-regions, demonstrating a much better integration.
mr. chairman, please! i am convinced that the european union's strategy for the baltic sea region will contribute to its sustainable development. however, it should be ensured that this document is updated with appropriate frequency and implemented consistently. in my view, one of the biggest challenges for the baltic sea region is to create an efficient sea, road and water transport network. i am therefore pleased that my amendment to the final version of the document, which emphasises the importance of the central european transport corridor, has been included. i believe that this corridor, which is the shortest link between scandinavia and the adriatic, is of fundamental importance for the whole baltic sea region. it will strengthen the infrastructural and social links between cities and regions and contribute to their prosperity. as a project that is not only economic but also political, cultural and historical, it deserves the utmost attention.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to congratulate mr olejniczak on his excellent report. as we know, today we are approaching a new challenge to cohesion policy. macro-regional policy certainly concerns such spheres and areas as the baltic sea strategy and the mediterranean sea strategy. i would like to point out a fact which mr prasad has already emphasized in his speech. today, these two coherent spaces - the baltic sea and the mediterranean - must be linked by a cross-border coherent transport corridor. in this context, all possible means should be mobilised in the new financing method so that these two growth centres can be effectively linked. i would like to mention that consultations are still ongoing on the tnt network, which would provide for coherence in rail, road and water transport. the aspect of linking these two areas seems to be one of the key elements of linking the macroeconomic development policy of the baltic sea and the mediterranean sea.
mr. chairman, please! as a member of parliament from the baltic city of gdansk, i support the baltic sea strategy as a pilot project for similar macro-regional strategies. i want this project to be a success. i do so with two reservations. first, for the strategy to be filled with concrete projects, there must be money. for there to be money, there must be concrete sources of funding. otherwise, strategy becomes a seminar and a story. in order to have sources of funding, it is necessary to decide whether this extra money will be for the strategy or whether it will come from the tailings of other sectoral programmes or regional policies. that would be bad. the second objection is of a particular nature. the baltic sea is still the most polluted sea in europe. meanwhile, with the approval of the european union and the support of some of its countries, the controversial northern gas pipeline project is being built. as the report rightly emphasises, there is a need to reduce the region's dependence on russian energy supplies. what are our resolutions worth if two years ago the european parliament opposed the construction of the northern gas pipeline and two years later it is being built? despite these reservations, it is worth supporting this strategy and giving the region a chance.
mr. chairman, please! in congratulating the rapporteur, i would like to emphasise once again that the baltic sea strategy is the first such strategy with a macro-regional dimension, and its potential success will serve as a model for other such areas. the aim of the project is to compensate for the differences in the socioeconomic development of the baltic states. environmental protection and transport infrastructure are very important pillars of this strategy. such territorial integration will certainly contribute to the development of the baltic sea region and make it more dynamic and attractive. however, the success of this strategy depends on the development of good, effective management cooperation at eu, national, regional and local levels.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! i believe that the eu strategy for the baltic sea region is a legitimate initiative to improve the effectiveness of the implementation of various european policies, such as cohesion policy, transport policy, maritime policy, environmental policy, innovation policy. however, there are many misunderstandings about this concept that i would like to see clarified. i think it is necessary to be clear about the financing of this strategy, so that potential beneficiaries do not have false beliefs and expectations. the 2011 draft budget abolished the separate budget line for this strategy and included it in the eastern neighbourhood policy category. the european commission is looking at how best to use the structural funds for this purpose, as most of the measures have already been programmed before the strategy has even been drawn up. too little is said about the use of funds available under instruments such as the competitiveness and innovation framework programme, the 7th framework programme for research and technological development, or funds for the development of the trans-european transport networks. i therefore call for a clear definition of the responsibilities for implementing this strategy and the roles of the various actors, so that we do not have to deal with another project that is much talked about but has no measurable effects.
in writing. at the beginning of my speech, i would like to thank mr olejniczak for his report on the strategy for the baltic sea region the first eu macro-region, which defines this multifunctional area of cooperation and focuses on common development goals and challenges or trends for future macro-regional policy. it also aims to develop a specific roadmap for the next macro-regional strategies. the baltic sea region is characterised by extensive, multi-level cooperation in the fields of economics, environmental protection and broadly defined social development. the countries in the area share many common challenges and, while remaining independent, they strengthen the implementation of the european union's strategy for the baltic sea region. despite its rather general tone, the report defines many common objectives and recommendations necessary for the successful implementation of the strategy, namely the establishment of a good platform for cooperation, effective coordination and a management system. however, financial resources are needed to successfully meet all these challenges. and those are missing. 8 eu countries and russia are beneficiaries of the strategy. let's not let the unresolved issue of funding the strategy stand in the way of developing and perfecting this ambitious, transnational initiative.
the union's primary objective is to overcome the economic crisis. this is primarily to tackle the structural problems created by the crisis, especially in terms of competitiveness and employment. the european commission has put forward the following proposals to bring about economic recovery at national and regional level: support for enterprises, increase knowledge and innovation, increase flexibility in cohesion programmes. therefore, investment should be accelerated and the implementation of cohesion policy programmes simplified and made more flexible. smart investment should be at the heart of cohesion policy programmes. the union as a whole must be further integrated, the solidarity of the union and its common market must be strengthened, and the action of individual states must not be limited to their own particular interests. the european union must focus on creating durable mechanisms that guarantee protection against the negative effects of the economic crisis.
the first item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the european commission summary of the spanish presidency. i would like to welcome with great pleasure the prime minister, josé luis rodríguez zapatero, who will now speak on behalf of the council. please, prime minister, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please,
mr. chairman, please! i think it's very difficult to judge a presidency that has set itself very ambitious goals. perhaps one of the problems of this presidency was that it was ambitious, and also that it came at a time of change in the institutional set-up of the union as laid down in the lisbon treaty. i would add to the strengths of the presidency that the europe 2020 strategy has been developed and adopted, although there is also the fear that it will follow the lisbon strategy in the future, but this will no longer be influenced by the presidency. unfortunately, in foreign policy, spain has proved to be a failure. the eu-us summit was not a success, and there was no further progress on the issues that interest me - the eastern partnership. even with the kindness of the new commissioner füle, i do not think that we have made any progress on the abolition or relaxation of the visa regime for ukraine, which could be the first step, the first opening of a specific task in the eastern partnership. of course, that should have included the activity of chairwoman ashton, but that was also missing. it cannot be that the objectives of the european union depend on which presidency is running the european union. if it is a presidency from the south, it pursues goals related to the south, if from the east - other.
mr president, prime minister, please! the evaluation of the spanish presidency is particularly important to us because it is the first presidency under the lisbon treaty and it is important to us, for example to poles who are preparing for the polish presidency. the question is whether the de facto status that has been achieved strengthens future presidencies or not. i must say that what we expected has happened during this presidency: the lisbon treaty, which was supposed to promote a strong europe, has in fact weakened the community method. and unfortunately, during the spanish presidency, this was very clear, and the best example of this is the weakening of the role of the european parliament in the construction of the 2020 strategy. the spanish presidency has been doing some interesting things, including a very interesting meeting in toledo on cities, and this is something to be commended. but it is very important for us, the members from other countries, to be aware of what is happening in spain too. because the presidency is not just the presidency, it is the leadership of the european union. we are therefore very interested in what happens in the spanish economic situation and during the presidency, and in the arguments that are put forward. it is also important for us to know what model of social, civil and defending the provisions of the treaty which says that the family belongs only and exclusively to the states is being launched by spain. and that is of great concern to us.
mr president, prime minister, please! the six months of the spanish presidency were a special period: a difficult and experimental one. it first fulfilled its role following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which redefined and allocated its competences. the 'matchmaking' with the newly appointed president of the council has not become a major problem in the context of political, economic and financial setbacks. the eu-us summit (president obama refused to attend) and the union for the mediterranean project, which is important for spain, failed to take place. in the face of a severe economic crisis, germany and france took the lead in the union, setting the tone for the financial assistance programme for greece. the specter of financial collapse was hanging over spain itself. it is no wonder that the actions of other countries have been the focus of this presidency. the future of the euro area was more in the forefront of the debate than the priorities of the spanish presidency. the belgian presidency will now have to deal with these problems as well.
mr. chairman, please! we began the year with the anxiety of the global crisis, but also with the hope of the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. in january, the spanish prime minister presented ambitious plans for his presidency. unfortunately, not much has been accomplished. but that is not the main reason why the spanish presidency cannot be seen as a positive one. its main flaw was the chaos, which was foreshadowed by the hacker's placing the face of jaso fasoli on a spanish website. this chaos was manifested by madrid's massive disruption of the union's external action, falling within the competence of the high representative, on the one hand, and its failure to take any active action in response to the deepening budgetary crisis, on the other. prime minister zapatero was unable to empathize with the mood in the union, where a strong leader was needed, not on the international stage, but domestically. the union's main problem was not its policy towards cuba, the arms embargo against china or the middle east peace process, but the weakening of europe as a result of budgetary troubles in greece, italy, portugal and spain itself.
acting president of the council. - mr president, i should like to begin by thanking all the honourable members for the interest they have shown in the rotating presidency of the european union. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of presenting this report to the house. in fact, some people may even be nostalgic for that situation and i understand that perfectly. i respect and appreciate them, but time is of the essence at the moment and we are in the european parliament judging other things and not in the spanish parliament. (applause) there were some other speakers who seemed to me to have the same tendency to feel more like a partner, a co-responsible party, or to try to lend a hand to their colleagues in the spanish parliament. your colleagues of political and ideological affinity. but we're here for other things, in my opinion. we are here to judge and evaluate the presidency and its six months of exercise, on the big issues. it is true that individual questions have been raised, but i cannot deal with all of them. in my opening remarks i wanted to adopt two perspectives which i believe should be the guiding thread of a balanced, calm and objective analysis of these six months. firstly, it is the first rotating presidency to be faced with the implementation of a new treaty, which is first and foremost a treaty amending institutional rules, our form of government, in a union of 27, with a known institutional complexity. for me, as a european and pro-european government, the first obligation i have considered in these six months is that there should not be a single complaint, a single dysfunction, a single institutional clash and that, from the first day, the new institutions should enjoy full political and functional legitimacy to carry out their functioning. and also to make it easier for the institutions, let us say already established ones, such as the commission, to have a proper relationship with the new institutional framework. i am pleased to say that the spanish rotating presidency has received nothing but support and recognition for its constructive attitude from the commission, the council and the european parliament, and i am grateful that today not a single criticism has been voiced against the attitude towards the major institutions. that was our first major challenge in a european union such as we have built. and with all humility, with the same humility with which i would tell mr schulz - who is not here at the moment because he had to go to a meeting, and he apologized, precisely to discuss the dialogue on financial supervision - that we certainly hope that tomorrow night the result will be in favour of creativity and that we can therefore have a day of joy for the spanish people which i will share absolutely with all the political representatives, just as mr schulz will do with chancellor merkel when the time comes - and in the end everything will remain in europe, which is always a satisfaction - with the same humility i must say that spain has fulfilled satisfactorily in order for the treaty of lisbon to work, and to work from the first day, so that all the institutions will sit in their roles and we will move towards a task of greater union. and the second major objective, mr mayor oreja, was, from the first day of the european presidency, to make progress on economic union, on the common economic policy. the digital market, which has been advanced, or the electric vehicle plan, which has also been advanced, are nothing but instruments for strengthening an economic union, just like the internal market. we must therefore distinguish between the major objectives and the instruments for making economic union more competitive, bringing together the synergies of all europeans in the various sectors of energy, industry, innovation, research, competitiveness and, if we could, employment and others. and let's see what the result is. maybe you don't share the goal, which is completely legitimate. but if the aim was, as the rotating presidency said, greater unity in economic policy, it has been more than achieved. because, firstly, we have financial supervision, i hope with an agreement that meets the desired objectives, and regulation of all financial products; and secondly, we have the impetus for a reform of the stability pact, for greater budgetary rigor and rigor, with new instruments for compliance with the stability pact. i should also like to say, since there has been so much talk about the rules, that since the birth of the euro spain has respected the stability pact much more than many other countries that some of your honourable members have boasted about here. (applause) so let's stick to the facts. yeah, yeah, let's stick to the facts. spain is the country which has respected the stability pact the most and there are others which have broken it up to seven times. they have been subject to certain files up to seven times. but, well, that's the way it is. the truth is that in these six months we have moved towards new rules in the stability pact, with more incentives, more sanctions and more demands. we shall move towards a new consideration and analysis of the macroeconomic situation of countries, including competitiveness. spain has offered to be assessed by the commission, together with finland, i think, on its potential for competitiveness. and we will move forward with the europe 2020 strategy, which was also adopted in this period, trying to rectify the lisbon strategy's failure: governance. because the national objectives are going to be much more demanding, because there is going to be follow-up, because there is going to be recommendations and because there is going to be, and there must be, greater co-responsibility of each state and, of course, of the commission, in the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. all this is the balance sheet of a greater economic union, to which i would add 'the fruit of the events of the sovereign debt crisis' the financial stabilisation instruments adopted or the commitments to support greece. spain is certainly supporting and honouring these commitments in the first place, as we have done in supporting greece. one of the first, by the way. we will honor each and every one of our commitments. all of these are facts. and some of your honourable members here have made some rhetoric, more or less brilliant. but if we set out to implement the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, we have done so. and if we decided to move forward with the commission into a much stronger, stronger economic union with more common economic policy, we have done that too. and in foreign policy, it is true that there was no summit with the united states, but there have been two major agreements. and it is true that there have been great agreements and summits with latin america. and it is true that, in the union for the mediterranean, prudence advised against holding the summit, which does not mean that the projects in favour of the union for the mediterranean are at a standstill, and there will be a summit when it can contribute to peace in the middle east. so, with or without summits with the united states, there have been important agreements in this case. the rotating presidency has certainly wanted to make a mark from the outset, but it has not wanted to fight for prominence in the european institutions. the important thing is that the europe 2020 strategy was adopted, and it was; the important thing is that a financial support mechanism for countries was approved, and it was; the important thing is that the financial supervision package is ready, and it is; the important thing is that swift was approved, and parliament will, i hope, approve it; the important thing is that the 'euro order' has been put into place, and it has been put into place; the important thing is that the health agreement on crossborder matters has been put into place, and it has been done. the important thing is the whole deal story. the spanish presidency has contributed to all of them, either by its own initiative or by the good work of its officials, the spanish officials. and in any case, we must recognize, even if we do not want to recognize the political part, that it will still be a good thing for politicians to encourage and give good work to civil servants. there is a point made by some of the honourable members about the situation of european citizens, mainly british, in the area of our country, particularly on the coast, in relation to property. i must say that i cannot, as president of the spanish government, accept the comparison which has been made, or which has been attempted to be made here, by a representative of a certain political group from britain, quoting zimbabwe verbatim. i can't accept that under any circumstances. it's just too much. i won't accept it. i reject it drastically. my country is a rule of law. (applause) my country is a rule of law that respects and enforces the laws. and, in the application of the law, it is the courts that have to apply that law. we are the first to feel close to people, in this case the british, who may have been defrauded by some predator in the real estate sector. and we are working with the european parliament and the parliamentary groups in this regard. we will work and do everything in our power and, moreover, this parliament has on more than one occasion called on spain to protect its coastline and the environment. and we have a cost act designed to protect them from the housing bubble. we must apply it. and we must, from this great institution which is the european parliament, defend the protection of the coast and combat abuses that can affect natural areas, environmental areas and the coastline, which we are so determined to defend. finally, mr president, i would like to thank the chairmen of the groups, mr daul and mr schulz in particular, for their careful tone of voice at this part-session. the spanish rotating presidency has met its commitments with a european and europeanist spirit, it has met its commitments with a loyal attitude and collaboration with the commission, parliament and the council, and it has met its term of office with the objectives in economic matters and in external action, which have been met, on the whole, satisfactorily. of course, not in all cases and not on all the points we had proposed, but if we look back - i say this for my interlocutors, more directly, from my country - at what the spanish parliament approved, we can see that they have been satisfactorily implemented. in any case, as president-in-office of the council, i would like to thank the european parliament very deeply, and in particular the president of the european parliament, for all the cooperation we have had during this six-month period. we have been supported by you, mr president. we have felt understood by you, encouraged by you. we have felt this institution close, although sometimes there are harsh voices. but we felt it close. and we are comforted by the fact that the european parliament is on the side of those who are truly europeans, who are loyal to europe and who are convinced that there is no better destiny than to walk together, united and sometimes leaving minor disputes for other times. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the commission. - mr president, i will be very brief. the questions were mainly addressed to the president of the spanish government, but i would just like to reflect on a point which has been a concern expressed by several members. i am thinking of mr daul, mr schulz and mr lambsdorff. it has to do with the institutional question and i would like to thank the spanish prime minister, mr zapatero, once again for his commitment to europe and the community method. i think it is fair to point out that much depended on this first rotating presidency. what would the rotating presidency read of the treaty of lisbon? and the truth is that, as the spanish prime minister said, this reading was in the community's favour. we want our system, which is a very complex system and remains complex under the lisbon treaty, to be able to function more efficiently. i think there will be a time when we will have to take a hard look at the evolution of our institutions, because the truth is that even with the lisbon treaty it is sometimes difficult for an ordinary citizen to read clearly how the european union works. but i would like to stress, as has been said, that spain has given this european impulse to the construction of our common project, which i know is also the orientation of the great majority of this parliament. the treaty of lisbon was for more europe, not for less europe. the treaty of lisbon is in line with the community's aims when it strengthens the powers of this parliament, when it creates a permanent presidency of the european council, when it creates the high representative who is also vice-president of the european commission, when it increases the powers of the commission in external affairs or, for example, in the monitoring mechanisms of the stability and growth pact. the lisbon treaty is for more europe, not for less europe. more europe not in the sense of centralization of powers, but in the sense of the added value of what we can do together: member states/european institutions. and that was the reading made by the spanish presidency, towards more europe. but as the spanish prime minister rightly said, the treaty does not solve all the problems. the political will to implement this treaty is needed, particularly on the part of the 27 governments, because the european institutions are, by their very nature, community institutions. that is what we must also ask our member states, our 27 member states, to do, to apply the treaty of lisbon in this community spirit. spain has set the example. i am sure that belgium, which now holds the rotating presidency of the council, will continue or deepen this line, knowing as we do the great european tradition of belgium. but it is necessary that parliament, the commission, the council and the european council are genuinely committed to a european application of what is a treaty that was made to respond more vigorously to the expectations and aspirations of our fellow citizens. and so i want to thank once again the spanish government, its president, all the staff, the whole spanish team, who have worked so hard during these months, and it has been extremely difficult at times. the truth is that these months have been some of the most difficult months we have had in the history of european integration, in which there was a test. the real stress test is not the banks, the real stress test has been the european union, the will to be together in the eurozone and in europe. it was in this extremely difficult context that spain had to assume the rotating presidency, at the same time as a new treaty with the commission, which only came into force in february, was coming into force. this commission is less than five months old. we have also done our best to make up for the delays caused by this transition, and the truth is that we must acknowledge that there has been an effort, with great commitment, with great honesty, on the part of the spanish presidency. that is why, without prejudice, of course, to the plurality of political views that exist in this parliament, i would like to stress that we must all stand together, those of us from the centre, the left, the right, those who believe in europe, the different institutions. we must be together to strengthen our european project.
thank you, mr president of the european commission. i thank the spanish presidency, mr prime minister, again. that concludes this item. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. the recently concluded spanish presidency of the council of the european union was, for at least a few reasons, one of the most important of the past decade. first, spain had to face the difficult task of 'testing' the changes introduced by the lisbon treaty. these changes were implemented efficiently, although the madrid government did not know until almost the beginning of the presidency on which treaty the eu's agenda would be based. second, spain has faced the worst financial crisis in the history of the euro. i would remind all those who are sceptical about the recently concluded presidency that the spanish government was one of the first to correctly assess the scale of the crisis and to call for effective measures to be taken, including sanctions for exceeding the budget deficit ceiling. thirdly, the spanish presidency should be commended for its enormous contribution to the work on the swift negotiations and the shape of the european external action service. thanks to madrid's seemingly unremarkable work, an agreement in both areas is now within reach. the balance of the spanish presidency of the council of the european union can certainly be considered positive. i hope that the belgian presidency, which has just begun, will maintain the pace of work and follow the path set by the madrid government.
in writing. - i congratulate the spanish presidency on the six months it has held the presidency of the union. it was a difficult and meaningful presidency. difficult, because it is the first since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon to appoint the president of the european council and the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. the presidency's programme was based on the old treaty, as the fate of the lisbon treaty was 'uncertain' during the preparatory phase. the greek crisis has slowed the implementation of the presidency's objectives. the delay in approving the new composition of the european commission (february 2010) and the consequent delay in adopting its legislative work programme was a hindrance. the presidency was significant: (a) institutionally, as it set out certain rules of conduct within the institutions with the adoption of the new treaty; (b) prospectively, as it set out the union's course of action for the next 10 years with the adoption of the 2020 strategy. the most important achievements of the socialist government of prime minister zapatero are: (a) the adoption of the action plan implementing the provisions of the stockholm programme (cooperation in the field of home affairs and justice); (b) the commitment of the presidency to combat violence against women; (c) the adoption by the council (3-4 june 2010) of the negotiating mandate for eu accession to the european convention on human rights and fundamental freedoms; (d) the launch of the committee on internal security (cosi); (e) the adoption of the draft regulation of the ep and the council laying down the procedures and conditions required for the submission of a citizens' initiative.
in writing. − very often in the ep we take action to defend fundamental rights and civil liberties around the world. the ep awards the sakharov prize to individuals who have made outstanding contributions to the defence of civil and minority rights. meanwhile, in the eu, these rights are also being violated. this is mainly the case for national minorities. some member states, i mean the lithuanian state, are making a mockery of the council of europe's framework convention on human rights. waldemar tomaszewski, mep, is being held accountable by the lithuanian parliament for defending the rights of minorities in lithuania in the ep. this is a shameful, unacceptable and scandalous situation. i call on the ep's human rights committee, on the european commission, to raise the level of the european union's standards on fundamental rights, freedoms and the rights of national minorities and to enforce them effectively.
in writing. - the case of deputy waldemar tomaszewski consists of two problems. the first is the situation of the polish minority in lithuania, whose rights are being raised by mr tomaszewski. the second is a causal consequence of the first, but only apparently. the central commission for professional ethics of the republic of lithuania imposed a 'public warning' on waldemar tomaszewski under the lithuanian code of conduct for state-level politicians. a situation in which a member is 'forgotten' by a public institution of a given country because of words he has spoken in the course of his mandate is unacceptable. the fact that it is a matter of public defence of a national minority does not change the situation. it only makes her more upsetting. that's why i decided to support waldemar tomaszewski's motion to invoke immunity and privilege.
in writing. - i congratulate the rapporteur on a very well-prepared report. i voted in favour of the report on the european union strategy for the baltic sea region and the role of the macro-regions in future cohesion policy. the document addresses several sensitive issues: the environment, energy and the external dimension. in my view, one of the most important challenges for the baltic sea region is to create an efficient network of different modes of transport. i am pleased that my amendment to the final version of the document, which emphasises the importance of the central european transport corridor, has been included. the development of transport networks and the provision of adequate access to infrastructure for all regions are the guarantee of the real cohesion of the european union.
in writing. − one of the eu institutions' tasks is to stand with citizens in their conflicts with profit-maximising business. this often goes against the rights of the disabled. they face frequent discrimination when they try to be mobile, when they want to use transport services. i consider the ban on discrimination on grounds of disability in bus and coach transport to be a major step forward in the fight for the right of disabled people to participate equally in society. compensation for cancelled or delayed flights, as they are known in the air transport sector, is also an important element of the regulation which is to regulate coach and bus services. they should be the standard for all types of transport services, as they show respect for passengers. i also feel the same way about legislation that forces transport companies to pay compensation to accident victims for both personal injury and damaged luggage. these are steps in the right direction, as they strengthen the position of citizens in their relations with transport companies. taking into account the above provisions, i have decided to vote in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading on the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on passenger rights in bus and coach transport and amending regulation (ec) no 2006/2004.
in writing. - i voted for the final report. i have serious reservations about the outcome of the vote on amendment no 6 tabled by the ppe group. the essence of the original text was that unused cohesion fund funds could be invested for transport investment purposes. this is justified by the investment needs of the beneficiary countries, as is very well shown by the example of poland. in addition, we expected about eur 23 billion for ten-t, and we received three times less. amendment 6 does not provide for any additional transportation measures, it maintains the status of non-use in the intended uses. instead of a more flexible fund, we got a conservative one. i want to thank my colleagues who voted to reject amendment no. 6.
in writing. - i welcome the results of today's vote. the rapporteur, mathieu grosch, proposed very ambitious targets to be achieved by 2020. among other things, he advocated increased road safety, a 40% reduction in fatalities, a 20% reduction in carbon dioxide emissions from road transport, and a doubling of the number of passengers on buses, trams, and railways. i agree with the overall message of the document: it is necessary to create a balanced and coherent vision of the future of transport as a sector that forms the basis of the internal market, which would guarantee the free movement of people and goods and ensure territorial cohesion throughout the european union. however, i could not agree to one of the rapporteur's proposals. i was a little skeptical about the idea of a transportation fund. this could lead to a future departure from the current system of allocation of the structural funds and the cohesion fund.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report by mr carlos iturgaiz on the deliberations of the committee on petitions during 2009. even though the report was mostly technical in nature, i believe it touched on some important issues that should be addressed in the future. according to the report, 46% of submitted petitions in 2009 were deemed inadmissible. this is far too high a number. as such, i strongly support the report’s recommendation for improving the information available to the citizens through the petitions web page on the ep portal. petitions are important because they give the european parliament a means to connect with its constituencies and vice versa. it is vital that citizens understand what specific issues petitions deal with and, subsequently, what courses of actions are available to them.
in writing. - the crisis has hit the new entrants to the labour market hardest. i have no doubt that youth unemployment is one of the eu's biggest problems today. even if young people do get a job, they very often work on the basis of so-called 'junk' employment contracts. there is also a lot of excitement about internships. on the one hand, they play a very positive role, enabling young people to acquire important practical skills. on the other hand, they often lead to a situation where work that should be done by a full-time employee is done for free by an intern. in some companies in poland, the rule is that each well-paid specialist can be replaced by a finite number of free trainees. this approach is not good for the labour market, much less for the position of workers. i welcome the fact that the ep has taken up this issue and has developed a number of solutions to improve the position of young workers. in supporting them, i decided to vote for the report on promoting access for young people to the labour market and improving the status of trainees and apprentices.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the president of the commission on economic governance in the eu and the euro area and the surveillance of national budgets (2010/2773 ((rsp)).
president of the commission. − mr president, i will try to respond to some of the concrete questions. first of all, to corien wortmann-kool, thank you for your support. in fact we believe this will enhance the credibility of our stability and growth pact, but also of the euro and of the european project as a whole, and we believe that parliament should be closely associated with all these efforts. at the last european council, when president buzek was there, i made a point that parliament should be kept fully informed of progress in the discussions on the future economic governance of europe. i think that some of the concerns expressed by mr hughes and mr bisky should be considered, but in fact i believe that our proposal does consider your concerns because in this proposal we are saying something new: that the stability and growth pact is not everything, that we are linking analysis of the implementation of the measures in the framework of the stability and growth pact with macroeconomic imbalances, with the problems of divergences in competitiveness. so, in fact, what we are proposing is a holistic approach that does not look only to the macroeconomic aspects but also to growth, as guy verhofstadt was suggesting, that looks also to innovation, to the reforms. that is precisely our goal with youth 2020. and yes, mr verhofstadt, as you rightly mention, we are concerned now with the internal market and we are working on this taking the report presented by mario monti – a report i have asked him to present – as a basis and commissioner barnier will come in the fall with some very important proposals, a single market act in fact to address this issue. so our proposal is not only about prudence in macroeconomic aspects. today we are discussing economic governance, so it is natural that we look at what did not go well, but i want to underline this point – this is not just about macroeconomic prudence: it is also about growth and about our reform agenda. what is new here is that now, for the first time – if, of course, this plan can in the end be agreed – we have this comprehensive approach, trying to look at all the aspects. you will remember that, when i presented the europe 2020 strategy some months ago, in some quarters in europe some people were saying ‘no, you cannot link it to the stability and growth pact because it may weaken the stability and growth pact’. i think that everybody agrees now that discussing the macroeconomic constraints without discussing structural reform, and without considering competitiveness, makes no sense. that is why i also do not agree with the idea that our approach is not balanced. in youth 2020 we were fighting for targets such as reduction of poverty, education, and employment to be included. so it is, in fact, a very balanced approach, one in which we try to combine all the economic policy instruments, to have a european dimension and a national dimension and to have, at the same time, objectives related to competiveness and objectives related to social inclusion and to education. you are right, mr verhofstadt, it is up to the commission to make the proposals, and that is what we are doing. we will come with formal proposals. what is going on is a very important reform. that is why olli rehn is also giving his very important input on behalf of the commission to the task force. we believe it is important to bring some consensus, because these are very important changes, but of course when the time comes to present the legislative proposals to the commission, we will do so, and that is exactly the best way to have your parliament associated. but we also want to include in this holistic approach macroeconomic surveillance with tif. it is not only about sanctions for those who do not fulfil the criteria of depth and the deficit. we will also try to reinforce coordination in terms of the macroeconomic imbalances. some of you also mentioned supervision, and, once again, i would like to remind you that our aim remains to have the new authority in place at the start of 2011. we need this since our whole reform is based on this new architecture. in the last few days, a new belgian presidency has renewed momentum towards a deal. there is a predominant sense of constructive pragmatism on both sides. i am grateful for the ambition parliament has been demonstrating. i am grateful for your strong support. at the same time i would like to ask you to continue your efforts to reach a satisfactory deal in the next few days. i believe it now appears within grasp. the commission has contributed through various compromise texts and is very pleased that progress is being made. we now call on both colegislators to maintain the positive dynamic. as mrs swinburne said, and she is right, the americans have announced the political agreement but they have not yet legislated. sometimes when you read the press it appears that the americans are much more advanced than we are. it is not true. president obama said in the g20 that he got a bipartisan agreement. great, and we welcome that. but in reality we should be able to conclude our legislative work long before our american partners and i believe we should do that to show also our leadership in terms of the financial regulation and supervision at the global level. that could only enhance the role of europe in this matter. finally, some of you spoke about stress testing. as you know the commission is playing an important role in promoting transparency and communicating the results of the ongoing stress testing of banks. at the last european council i made a strong plea to make the results public. as you know, this is a national competence, but i am indeed extremely pleased with the european council agreement to do so. this decision should reassure investors by either lifting unfounded suspicion or by dealing with the remaining problems that may exist. i am very confident about the overall resilience of the eu banking industry, but we must identify possible pockets of vulnerability and deal with them. a fully transparent stress test provides the opportunity to do so. backstop mechanisms must be designed for activation in case of need and this is, once again, a national responsibility. if state intervention is needed, this will be examined by the commission in a timely manner under the community state aid rules. the european decision to publish individual results of bank stress tests was indeed very well received by the g20 leaders in toronto last weekend and we believe this is the way to restore confidence in our overall system. so as you see, we are acting on several fronts. today i have presented to you the proposals made more recently in terms of economic governance, but we should not separate those proposals from the other efforts that we are pursuing to give more coherence to our economic policy, to understand that a monetary union without some kind of economic coordination does not make sense. i believe that the stability of the euro is in the interest of all our citizens. it is in the interest, certainly, of the euro area, but it is also in the interest of all the european union and of all those who want open markets, open economies and open societies. (applause)
president barroso, thank you for your approach and for your cooperation with the european parliament.
the next item is the joint debate on:- report by mr. ramon tremos and mr. sylvio balcells on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs in the european parliament on the proposal for a council regulation on the establishment of a european systemic risk board (esrb) and a european systemic risk board (esrb) (cod-016-0149) (cod-016-0140) (cod-016-0140) (cod-016-0140) and on the proposal for a council regulation on the establishment of a european systemic risk board (esrb) and a european systemic risk board (esrb) (cod-016-0140) (cod-016-0140) (cod-016-0149) (cod-016-0149) (cod-016-0160) (cod-016-0149) and on the proposal for a council regulation on the establishment of a european systemic risk board (esrb) and a european systemic risk board (esrb) (cod-016-0149)) (cod-016-016-0140) (cod-016-016-0149)) and on the proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european systemic risk board (esrrr) and the proposal for a european systemic risk board (cod-016-016-016-016-016-016-016-016) (cod-016-016-0140) (cod-016-016-016) (cod-016-016-016) and the proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european systemic risk board) and the european systemic risk board (cod-016-016-016-016-016-016-016-016 and the european systemic risk board) (cod) (cod
madam president, the current crisis has taught us that when a european bank runs into trouble its problems can spill across borders. an eu-wide system of financial supervision is being established to deal with the prevention of such situations; while an integrated european framework for cross-border crisis management will hopefully compliment the supervisory architecture as soon as possible. the last two years have proven that relying on national approaches to cope with crises is clearly a sub-optimal solution. the new system will have to be developed in such a way that a crisis can be handled cost-effectively, moral hazards eliminated and taxpayer finance bailouts excluded. asset transfers will have to be regulated in a manner that ensures a level playing field, especially for host countries. the cross-border crisis management system – based on 28 regime concepts – should be designed in a way that would eliminate the interdependence between banks and national budgets. it should also contribute to the emergence of a single banking market of the union. after all, if we had a single banking market in europe we would not have to talk about cross-border crisis management. last but not least, let me emphasise that all the elements of the european financial stability framework, as well as the resolution regime for cross-border institutions, should be adopted urgently to reduce uncertainty and fragilities in the banking sector. having a european mechanism in place would also allow europe to be more effective in ensuring that global solutions materialise quickly.
madam president! i just wanted to say thank you so much for giving me a voice. well, i want to emphasize as strongly as i can that what we're talking about today is not just about the economy of individual countries, but it's about 500 million people. it is very good that the union is not passive in providing financial security. in this context, it is worth noting the increased activity of the parliament itself, the european commission and the european central bank. i fully agree that we should support countries in crisis situations, but support is not the same as giving. let us remember to combine the responsibility of the union with the responsibility of all the states. better supervision at european level is a very good idea, but we also need to make more demands on supervision in individual countries.
madam president! i think we've managed to do something very important by regulating or creating new kinds of pay policies. on the one hand, we've been able to agree that wage increases were one of the factors that contributed to the financial crisis. we have agreed that we need to increase the role of the management bodies and especially the supervisory bodies, both internal and external, in companies. we have agreed that there must be general rules when a company must have a completely independent management committee. we finally agreed, as our predecessors had said, that the premium should be linked to long-term financial performance and that it could be deferred. and we also managed to agree on something else, which i think is just as important, we managed to agree that wage policy, which was clearly wrong, was not the main, certainly not the only, cause of the financial crisis. i'm particularly happy with this last entry, because if we were to write this entry and there were these ideas, we would simply be accepting false information and it would not help us fight the causes of the crisis. i thank all my colleagues for their cooperation in this report.
member of the commission. − certainly i would be prepared to keep a close eye, as you have asked, on this issue. i think that it should be noted that the running and the operational costs of all the joint technology initiatives are partially covered by industry. in line with that contribution, and in the spirit of a public-private partnership, some involvement of industry partners is foreseen in the guidelines for the appointment of the executive director. this involves a prominent role, of course, for the commission’s senior staff – who are always a majority in the selection process. the involvement of industry was of two kinds. perhaps it would be helpful if i outlined how that was. one member out of three in each pre-selection committee (with voting rights) and the other two members are: the director-general from the parent directorate-general from within the commission or one of his/her deputies as chairperson, and a director of the parent directorate-general. there is one observer from industry in the consultative committee on appointments (without voting rights); and the six members of the consultative committee on appointments are senior commission staff members. three out of the six industry representatives on the governing board of the fuel cells and hydrogen jti, which appoints its executive director, come at present from smes. that sme representation in the governing board is actually enshrined in the fuel cells and hydrogen regulation which reads that ‘at least one of the representatives to the governing board appointed by the industry grouping shall represent smes’. of course, as i said at the beginning, i will be quite happy, as the member of parliament asked me to do, to keep a close eye on these procedures in the future.
member of the commission. − accession of the european union to the european convention on the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms will not affect the manner in which a judgment of the european court of human rights against an eu member state is executed by that member state. that means that the accession agreement can only create obligations on the basis of the convention and, where applicable, of any additional protocol of the convention which the union might ratify insofar as it concerns acts and measures adopted by the institutions, bodies, officers or agencies of the union but not when it concerns acts and measures adopted by the member states. there are no plans to introduce any eu mechanism for monitoring the implementation of such rulings, since there is no legal basis for doing so. indeed protocol no 8 to the lisbon treaty states that accession will ‘not affect the competences of the union or the powers of its institutions’ or ‘the situation of member states in relation to the european convention’. this relates not only to the scope of the substantive obligations of member states, but also to the manner in which a judgment of the european court of human rights against an eu member state is executed.
i thank the commissioner for his reply. unfortunately, it's not satisfying to me. however, the control of the execution of judgments of the european court of human rights in strasbourg seems necessary, since some countries will not want to execute them voluntarily. my supplementary question relates to the court's rulings on the violation of the european convention on human rights, in particular in the case of lautsi v italy. in its judgment of 3 november 2009, the court found that the display of crosses in classrooms constituted a violation of human rights, and in grzelak v. poland, in its judgment of 15 june 2010, it found that the lack of opportunity for pupils to attend ethics classes in most polish schools constituted such a violation. are the polish legal solutions, which in the above cases were found to be defective by the court, also contrary to the draft... (the president cut off the speaker)
member of the commission. − mr president, i will try to answer the question. where member states act in the scope of union law, they must respect fundamental rights as enshrined in the charter and in the general principles of union law. any violation of this obligation may lead to an infringement procedure before the european court of justice under article 258 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. however, this is the only procedural means that the european union has at its disposal to ensure the compliance of a member state with fundamental rights. conversely, where member states act outside the scope of union law, there is no general competence under the treaties in the area of fundamental rights. therefore the union is precluded not only from monitoring in general whether a member state respects fundamental rights, but also from monitoring whether a member state complies with the judgment of the european court of human rights.
i'm not going to let you do this. the commission will probably be involved in the process of negotiating the accession of the union to the convention. one of the most important issues in this process will be the relationship between the european court of justice and the european court of human rights in strasbourg. how does the commission consider that the ets' prerogatives in the interpretation of eu law should be safeguarded?
member of the commission. − well, first of all i should say that when negotiating with third countries, namely the countries which i mentioned, we negotiate on behalf of the 27 member states and we take a multilateral approach in negotiating issues relating to tax evasion. your point is a really interesting one and we are looking at various forms of tax evasion. as you rightly pointed out, tax evaders are adjusting to the changes in our controls; that is why we have this code of conduct group where we try to ensure that the code is applied not just at member state level; we also try to encourage third countries to apply the principles of this code of conduct. this could also allow us to make progress in dealing with tax evasion.
i have the following question to put to you: from what you have said here, commissioner, we have a good project, only that this project cannot be implemented. there is a group of countries blocking this project and, if i may, i wanted to ask you this question because i understand that you cannot tell us how many countries are against it and what arguments they are using. because i understand that they have their reasons, too. they have to be invoked.
member of the commission. − on this particular issue, i have to say that the problem of the isolation of the turkish cypriot sportsmen and women should be solved through an internal cypriot dialogue, through ongoing talks to find the comprehensive solutions i referred to earlier. the united nations framework offers an opportunity for such talks. the european union has no competence to intervene in such cases. ultimately, this regrettable situation results from the yet to be resolved cyprus problem. the commission strongly supports the leaders of the two communities in cyprus in the ongoing negotiations on a comprehensive settlement on cyprus, as i said earlier. a swift solution to the cyprus issue would effectively address the problem raised by the honourable member, but i can add that the turkish cypriot sportsmen and women should have the right to decide freely for which federation they want to be active. there should be no pressure from any side. as mentioned earlier, this is an issue for internal cypriot dialogue.
member of the commission. − the european union is a major actor in the middle east peace process, both politically and practically. at a political level, the european union’s role is founded on strong bilateral relations with all partners in this important region. the european neighbourhood policy (enp) has provided the framework for these bilateral relations, which can be tailored to each country’s needs. enp meetings provide a platform for regular, in-depth and robust discussion of various issues, including those relating to the middle east peace process. the european union has used enp meetings with israel and the palestinians to address different aspects: political issues, discussions of specific human rights cases, the situation on the ground, our assistance work etc. in each case, the enp framework has helped to consolidate a regular flow of information and sharing of views. at a practical level the european union designs its substantial support for this region as a result of bilateral consultations in the enp framework. for example, the european union is a major contributor to palestinian state-building efforts and to relief efforts for the refugee population throughout the middle east. in parallel to close bilateral relations, the european union has consistently supported a multilateral approach to the middle east peace process. the union for the mediterranean offers another forum where the middle east peace process can be discussed by all partners in this region. in addition, the european union – along with the united states, russia and the united nations – is a member of the quartet, which is supporting the current proximity talks between israel and the palestinians. at its meeting of 19 march 2010, the quartet indicated that a peace deal covering all final status issues should be completed within 24 months.
member of the commission. − i would like to start where the honourable member ended. we should use to the maximum the channels we have and find new ones, as appropriate. the middle east peace process, and this particular region, is indeed an area over which we cooperate closely with cathy ashton, the high representative and vice-president of the commission. it is an area where we are hopeful of seeing the fruits of a post-lisbon european union external service and policy, bringing together the community approach and the instruments of our common foreign and security policies. as far as the first part of your question is concerned, i am both proud that the european union is one of the biggest donors and proud that the european union is now channelling that support to state-building activities. i am, at the same time, concerned that other countries, particularly the rich ones in the region, are not doing enough to match our efforts.
member of the commission. − i am sorry, i thought i answered that particular question at the beginning of my answer. my answer was yes, we do need that, and we are in discussion and close coordination with the high representative and vice-president of the commission about how best to do it and how, in this particular region, to combine the instruments the european union external service has at its disposal after the lisbon treaty enters into force.
member of the commission. − to be honest, i am not sure that the association agreement and that framework are the best way to pressure anyone. the honourable member is aware of israel’s willingness to upgrade the relationship between the state of israel and the european union – the so-called advanced statutes – but, including for the reasons mentioned by members, that wish has not met with a positive response from the european union. what is needed at this point in time is a political solution to the closure of gaza. catherine ashton, the high representative and vice-president, is involved on an almost daily basis in solving this particular issue. i was about to go to the region, but we both agreed that it would best to first find a political solution for opening up the region, and then for the commission to see how it could best serve the region, in terms of more than just humanitarian aid.
member of the commission. − respect for human rights and fundamental values and adherence to democratic standards are at the heart of the european neighbourhood policy. the commission has been monitoring the implementation of the eu-azerbaijan and eu-georgia action plans since 2006, when the action plans were signed. this monitoring is recorded in the commission’s annual progress report, which we issue every spring. in the case of azerbaijan, last year’s assessment indicates an uneven development in the field of democratisation and human rights. we have noted some positive developments but we continue to be concerned in particular about freedom of expression and freedom of media, an assessment which the european parliament shared in its resolution of 17 december 2009. as regards georgia, in 2009 the country made good progress in the implementation of the enp action plan priorities, especially in the areas of rule of law, reform of the justice system, good governance and the fight against corruption. the issues of human rights are being discussed regularly through the eu-georgia human rights dialogue which met twice in 2009 and will in fact meet again this week in tbilisi to review progress. the commission is following developments in both countries, including in relation to commitments taken in the context of the council of europe and the osce. the commission continues to raise its concerns with the administration of azerbaijan and georgia at various levels. the commission assesses progress in its annual reports on the implementation of the action plans agreed with the partner countries. the financial locations for enp partners through the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument will from next year reflect in an objective and transparent manner the degree to which the values underpinning the enp in the area of democratic governance and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms are effectively shared. moreover, the eastern partnership provides for new and ambitious association agreements between the european union and those partner countries that are willing and able to comply with the resulting commitments, including commitments on governance.
the author's deputy. - i'm not going to let you do this. thank you very much for your answer. however, the question was: is there any special type of praise or incentive possible or provided for in the commission's action to specifically emphasise that those who agree to and comply with the joint arrangements can count on a special bonus?
in writing. today's debate on novel foods is very important from the point of view of protecting the health and lives of consumers across the european union. it is extremely important that both parliament and the commission should create mechanisms whose main priority is to prevent the negative effects of the introduction of new products on the market, for which we do not yet have a complete knowledge of the effects on the body of their consumption. all citizens of the union are entitled to the necessary protection and security in this respect. they must be absolutely sure that the food on the market does not contain new, unknown and potentially harmful ingredients. we cannot therefore allow food products produced by means of technologies which have not been used or tested to date to enter the market. i am convinced that when introducing new foodstuffs to the market, the first priority must always be to protect the health and life of the consumer. only if this condition is met can new products be placed on the union market.
mr. chairman, please! tighter rules on industrial gas emissions and meeting environmental obligations are the main objectives of the changes to the regulations for industrial installations in the european union. the draft directive on industrial emissions, which combines and updates eight existing directives, is crucial for improving the state of the environment and air quality in the european union. it introduces stricter emission standards for large combustion plants and regulates a much larger number of combustion plants. each country's energy sector has its own specificity and energy security policy, at least until we adopt a common, uniform energy policy. poland's energy sector is about 95% coal-based. the adoption of the initial requirements of the new directive would result in a serious threat to the energy security of poland and other countries in our part of europe, which are in a similar situation, have similar specificities of this sector. in this context, it is a good idea to enable member states to meet their environmental targets by establishing transitional national plans to allow for the periodic application of more lenient emission limits. the possibility of granting derogations whereby emission allowances may take into account local specificities, geographical conditions and economic considerations will also be relevant. however, legislative changes in the field of the environment should always be geared towards setting targets that can be achieved by all member states. the compromise text restored many of the council's original assumptions, which took into account the fact that many countries are unable to meet the environmental standards set by the council because of their dependence on coal or geographical conditions. i believe that this approach to reducing emissions and setting high standards is the right one, because it is rational and realistic to implement.
mr. chairman, please! the envi commission rejected the reasonable adjustment mechanisms. the adoption of mr. krahmer's report will put the company in a difficult position. in poland, in accordance with the accession provisions, installations with a capacity of more than 500 mw will be equipped with wet desulphurisation in 2018. the commission notes that the polish authorities have not provided any evidence that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market. it's economically and technically problematic. it may only concern new investments. the adoption of this controversial compromise will result in, for example, polish power plants switching off 50% of their capacity by 2020. the draft recommendation for second reading should be rejected as it does not take account of local economic and technical realities. it's based on doctrinal premises. it leads to unsustainable development and unfair competition within the european union.
mr. chairman, please! i wanted to talk about two things. the first thread is a quick answer to the 3-2 tie for the dutch. the second thread is the countries that are based on coal, and the draft directive. poland is participating, and will continue to participate, in the implementation of the european energy strategy, and we therefore welcomed the compromise reached in the trilogue on the draft directive on industrial emissions. poland has a unique fuel structure in the world: more than 90% of electricity and heat is produced with indigenous coal, which is the security and high energy independence of our country. the transitional periods for large combustion plants (lcps) in terms of so2 and nox emissions are particularly important for us. the commission notes that the measure is not compatible with the internal market and that the aid is not compatible with the internal market. the transitional periods will allow the phasing out of generation facilities and their replacement by modern power units with the highest possible generation efficiency to be spread over the period 2016-2023. this investment process, which has been launched in our country, also aims at fuel diversification in line with the current energy policy until 2030. it will reduce the share of solid fuels in electricity generation to below 60%. at the same time, it should be noted that poland will have to make a huge effort to achieve a 20% share of renewable energy in 2020, improve energy efficiency and technologically transform the energy produced to a low co2 emissions target by 2020, in order to implement the requirements of the energy and climate package.
in writing. the legislative process for the ippc industrial emissions directive, which is of eu-wide relevance, is slowly coming to a close. however, it should be stressed that not all member states are able to implement it. from poland's point of view, a directive adopted in this form could have serious consequences for industry and heating plants. losses in the industry could reach as much as 50 billion. the implementation of the directive will also have a negative impact on thousands of polish enterprises. reducing pollution to the proposed level will mean that many old plants will have to be replaced by new ones, which is a bigger problem than reducing carbon emissions. however, for district heating plants, the directive provides for a transitional period to comply with union standards by 2019. that's four years less than poland expected. the extension of the transitional period would allow for a more gentle conversion of small heaters. the implementation of the directive will also have an impact on the lives of ordinary citizens. according to the polish ministry of the environment, the introduction of industrial emissions legislation will increase the price of heat by one fifth. the cost of electricity will also increase. consequently, the recommendations for the second reading of the abovementioned directive should be rejected.
before we begin, i should like to make the following statement. today marks the fifth anniversary of the terrorist attacks on the public transport system in london, which killed 52 people and injured nearly 800. we remember what happened on 7 july 2005 in london, and we will never forget. on this day especially our thoughts are with the families and friends of the victims. the bombings in london were one of the worst acts of terror perpetrated on european soil. let me say to bombers and terrorists: no matter what they do, they cannot win because we value every single life. no terrorist or terrorist action will ever be able to diminish or destroy our faith in core values such as fundamental and human rights. terrorism is an attack on all of us, an attack on the very fabric of our democratic society. it can never be justified. europe will always stand united in its fight against terrorism of all kinds.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the belgian presidency's programme of action.
mr. chairman, please! two things. the first concerns the cooperation of the belgian authorities with the high representative for foreign affairs in the creation of the european external action service. the next six months will be crucial for the shape of this service and its operating principles. i would therefore like to draw the attention of the prime minister and the belgian authorities to the need to ensure fair and as broad a geographical representation as possible in the selection of officials, in accordance with the text of the preamble and article 6 (6) of the document which will most likely be adopted by the european parliament tomorrow. the point is that the external action service should be european, not some sort of elite club for the chosen few. and the second thing i wanted to mention is the strategic interest of the european union, which is the eastern dimension of foreign policy. it is very worrying that, apart from a brief mention of continuing cooperation with the eastern partnership countries in the field of justice and external affairs, this area has largely been omitted from the presidency's priorities. i therefore call for the next six months to be used well to guarantee a european perspective for our eastern neighbours. i repeat, this is in the strategic interest of the european union.
mr president, prime minister, please! you said that we must find the spirit of europe, and that europe needs its own breath. you have set five objectives, the main message of which is to rebuild the european economy or to make the european union a major player on the international stage. in line with the europe 2020 strategy, which is to be translated into national programmes, sustainable jobs are the main objective. this is a goal that is very much awaited by all the citizens of our member states. there is a general consensus that we need to rebuild our industrial policy, or, as mr verhofstadt said, a new pan-european infrastructure market, without which we cannot talk about sustainable and balanced development. you also spoke of a multipolar world, which is changing very rapidly. i would like to stress that the root causes of this crisis must be overcome and at the same time those who have contributed to it must be held to account.
mr. chairman, please! belgium is holding the presidency of the european council for the 12th time and is therefore a country with theoretical experience, although many in this room are wondering how a country that has not been able to appoint its own government and prime minister for five months will be able to lead 26 other member states. the next six months will be particularly difficult for belgium and for all the member states. on the one hand, the responsibility of the presidency is complicated by the institutional changes introduced by the lisbon treaty and, on the other, by the spectre of a major economic crisis. the presidency has made it a priority to tackle the economic and financial crisis in europe. he's also a big climate activist. much will depend on a pragmatic approach to these objectives. the promotion of a low-carbon economy cannot be achieved at the expense of stifling central and eastern european industry by implementing the drastic co2 reduction mandate. this will prevent the whole of europe from effectively emerging from the crisis. it is also to be hoped that the current political turmoil in belgium will not interfere with the achievement of these ambitious objectives.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. - mr president, the questions were, for the most part at least, addressed to the prime minister, so i shall not take up much of your time. i would just like to emphasize one aspect which seems to me to be very clear. the european parliament, in its plurality, has expressed, i think, a very clear priority through this debate: the economic and the social questions. the various groups emphasized this priority and even recommended that the belgian presidency should concentrate on it. i believe that this is indeed the first concern of our fellow citizens. that is how we can bring europe closer to our fellow citizens, by focusing on what is their main problem: at the moment in europe, it is unemployment, the question of employment, those who are unemployed and those who are afraid of losing their jobs. that is why i would like to reiterate to you, the belgian presidency and parliament, that we are prepared to work with you in a very concentrated, very intensive way to fulfil these obligations. there's going to be an immediate economic emergency this month: the release of the stress tests. this is a very important emergency. this is a vital exercise in transparency, but it can only succeed if it is well prepared by national regulators and national governments. this is a first-aid situation. after that, there is the whole development of our economic agenda, the flagship initiatives we have talked about: the employment initiative, the implementation of strategy 2020. we must, of course, draw conclusions on the economic governance of the euro area and of europe as a whole, and conclusions on financial supervision. and on this point too, the message from parliament has been very clear, and i want to emphasize that. you know that it was on the basis of the commission's proposals that a debate took place between parliament and the council. i see the latest positions of parliament as a compromise. i call on the council to take a step in the direction of the european parliament. i believe that the belgian presidency will be able to use all the mechanisms provided for in the treaty to reach a compromise, because it would be essential, in my view, for the new supervisory architecture to be ready by the beginning of next year, to fulfil the obligations not only towards ourselves but also towards our main partners in the g20. we are the ones who started this journey, and i hope we are not the last to finish it. so there is indeed a huge amount of work to be done in the economic and social fields, and i would like to reiterate once again my full confidence in the belgian presidency, and not just because it is the second time that belgium holds the presidency of the council. in short, if there is a country which naturally smells of europe, which has an intuition, a special vocation for europe, it is belgium. i'm not saying this out of politeness, i'm saying it because it's true, but also because, beyond these traditions, i trust this team. we have already had meetings with the belgian presidency at the commission and we have seen its extraordinary level of political and technical preparation, and above all the dedication and passion it shows for the european cause, our common cause: a stronger, freer, more united europe.
president of the council. mr president, i would first of all like to thank all the members of the european parliament who have spoken - members of the political groups and others - for their words. i also want to make it clear that we feel somewhat supported in our approach to those six months. i feel that we can - let us not exaggerate - become allies in the coming weeks and months to help europe move forward and that is, i think, what this is all about. i know that there is confidence in the belgian presidency today and i also know that we will have to earn that confidence and prove that we are worthy of your trust. this is the mindset with which we start. i shall be forgiven for not answering all the specific questions and reasons. i am thinking of the questions on sport, mr belet, or the questions on the eurovignette. i know by heart that there are passages in our substantive programme devoted to this. this is also true of a number of other colleagues' reports. perhaps i should say something about the approach first and foremost and perhaps i should fall into repetition. it has already been said by mr daul: our ambition was not so much to make a catalogue of feasible or unfeasible promises. we have effectively gone for what mr daul has called minus the promises, plus the results, so less promises, more results. that is our ambition. we did not want to create a gadget presidency with all kinds of individual sighs from a member state which would overestimate the importance of the presidency in the implementation of lisbon. no, our ambitions are clear: the european union must be able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the european union, and we must be able to inscribe ourselves in the agenda which is not dictated by belgium but is decided on a global and european scale. you as an institution and the european institutions in general, as well as current events, dictate the agenda, including that of this presidency. secondly, we are inscribing, i repeat once again, in the approach to the lisbon treaty the lisbon treaty as a whole, and not less than this treaty. as some colleagues have said, the belgian presidency is, in fact, the first to have the opportunity, during six months, to establish precedents and to apply the treaty of lisbon with all its provisions. it is true that the aspect of pure bicameralism, for example, cited by mr dehaene, is an innovation which is sometimes underestimated by colleagues, including those who are part of the belgian government, and which is being discovered today. it seems to me that one of the first tests at this level will be the preparation of the 2011 budget. as a former parliamentary functionary, i know that the preparation of a budget 15 years ago, in particular, was always a rather delicate task. today, with the disappearance of the distinction between compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure, and with the mere codecision which comes into play, it is an exercise which, in my opinion, requires all our attention, and i believe that mr wathelet, secretary of state for the budget, has the heart to do a good job. so, mr president, we want to help europe move forward. we want to do this with great respect for the institution which has the greatest legitimacy from the people. as for the content, i feel strengthened and supported by the words of many. the president of the commission also referred to it in his speech: it is clear that the absolute priority must be to restore sufficient and sustainable economic growth, mr van brempt, and that is, mr verhofstadt, through the solution of financial supervision. we have noted your request to have recourse to qualified majority voting if necessary. there's the problem of the hedge funds. we must also take the necessary measures to strengthen the balance sheets of our banks and to ensure that financial strength can again emerge from the financial world, through the stress tests and especially the conclusions which we will have to draw directly from those stress tests. the next step must then be - and the texts and plans have been submitted by the european commission for that purpose - to get that real economy back on track. i am in agreement with those who, mr president of the european commission, expect, of course, a strengthening of the stability and growth pact and stricter budgetary control, but also an impulse to infrastructure and industrial policies which will make europe more tangible to economic and socioeconomic operators than it is today and which must form part of a common ambition for our entire continent. finally, as regards the social aspects, i would like to stress that, despite the fact that europe does not really have very elaborate skills in this field, belgium's ambition is to take account of the sequence of the financial, economic and social crisis. the crisis began a little less than two years ago with an implosion of american banks, and the consequences are being seen on the european continent. we must therefore act quickly. the second effect was felt in the confidence of citizens, both as consumers and as investors. and this lack of confidence, this decline in confidence, has a negative impact on the real economy, which in turn has negative effects on the labour market and, at present, we are faced with social consequences. mr president, it has been said by a number of colleagues. europe is expected to perform here. that has been proven time and time again in the past. it was created for that very reason, as a kind of guarantee for the prosperity and well-being of the citizens of this continent. the european union must therefore also respond appropriately to the negative social consequences of the crisis which began as a financial crisis and which has become a crisis of the real economy and which is also manifesting itself in the labour market. one special comment in the light of the history we share with a significant part of africa. one special word on the africa strategy. this question was raised by mrs de keyser and by mr schulz, the leader of the group of the european socialists. we support the reflection initiated by catherine ashton on the union's strategy for external relations with africa, with the aim of achieving greater coherence in our regional relations. it is self-evident that belgium, because of its long tradition, will keep the african continent high on the agenda, and we want to contribute to today's reflection as much as possible. i have already said, mr president, that i will not go into all the specific points. we have noted very carefully the sighs expressed. in conclusion, i would like to underline what jean-luc dehaene has said, which is that one of the advantages of the current political situation in my country is that we can devote almost all our time to the eu rotating presidency, including during the coming holiday period. i would also like to stress and reiterate that the programme of the belgian presidency was drawn up after extensive dialogue and debate within belgium, and these debates have also included all the regional governments. one specific characteristic of my country is that, both at the federal level and at the regional level, our governments are composed of numerous parties. i therefore repeat that the programme is supported by almost 90% of the representatives sworn in yesterday in the belgian parliament. ninety per cent of the members of that parliament support this presidency programme. as acting prime minister of belgium, and as the acting rotating president, i would like to thank you. we will work very hard in the coming months. yves leterme has thanked you, and i can assure you that the prime minister of belgium - whoever it will be - will be here again in december. i hope then we will be in a position to see that our common ambitions have been reached. (applause from the left)
prime minister, thank you for your presentation and remarks. all the best for the belgian presidency. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
in writing. mr prime minister, i congratulate you on your speech, which is full of humility and responsibility for the issues facing europe. i am glad that you have wisely proposed the tasks of the belgian presidency. i would like to support your objectives of strengthening economic coordination, which is very much needed for europe to become an equal partner on the world stage. i hope that you will take advantage of the readiness of the member states today to take bold decisions, including on structural reforms, which will promote sound, coherent management of the european economy. however, i would stress the need to involve all the member states of the european union in these activities, not just those in the euro area. only by being strong together can we regain credibility in the eyes of the financial markets, which will reduce the cost of servicing national debt, facilitate fiscal consolidation and boost economic growth. i wish you a lot of determination, dynamism and responsibility.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. poland is a long way from iceland, but there are at least two reasons why we support the country's efforts to join the eu. firstly, we have only recently joined the union and we all remember how important it was to us. the eu cannot be a closed club and should be open to other countries. the second reason is that there are about 30 000 poles working in iceland, mainly in the fish processing industry. in this context, i would like to make a few comments: i am pleased that the negotiation process on iceland's accession to the eu is well advanced and that the european council decided on 17 june to open negotiations with iceland. it is also important that the icelandic side accepts the universal nature of the principles governing the negotiation process. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the icelandic authorities have not yet provided any evidence that the icelandic authorities have not complied with the commitments made by the icelandic authorities. the question of the willingness of the icelandic citizens to settle the issues related to the payment of compensation to the governments of the united kingdom and the netherlands for the losses suffered by these states as a result of the bankruptcy of icesave is relevant. however, i am of the opinion that bilateral disputes should not affect the process of eventual accession.
madam president! last month we voted for accurate and uniform food labelling to ensure that consumers have sufficient access to information on what products they consume are made of. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's food safety is not compromised by the use of cloned animals. european agriculture with high standards is able to provide the best quality, healthy and environmentally friendly products. so there is no need to give up food that we are convinced is good for untested, uncertain experiments.
madam president! we need to use all available technologies to help reduce industrial emissions and thus protect the environment. the directive of the european parliament and of the council calls for the introduction of such technologies, while recommending the unification of the implementation of the rules and the uniform implementation of its principles in the member states. the rapporteur also points out that further administrative complications can be avoided by not introducing market instruments to help achieve the aims of the directive. the positive results of such an undertaking would be disproportionate to the costs incurred. that idea is most welcome.
madam president! in addition to their fundamental environmental functions as the most sustainable ecosystems and an integral part of the planet's landscape, forests are also important in cultural and social terms, especially in rural areas. the european union must act decisively to eliminate illegal logging. this will protect competitiveness in the union wood market and help to control the progressive climate change while preserving biodiversity. and let us not forget the dangers of natural disasters in deforested areas. the catastrophic floods of recent weeks remind us that regulating water levels is one of the key roles that forests play. there was no other way to vote on this matter than to vote against.
in writing. − there is a consensus among european leaders that radical action is needed to ensure the stability of the financial system. it is the result of strong pressure from eu citizens, who are dismayed by the practices taking place in the banking sector. consensus at the bottom forces consensus at the top. the draft resolution, which contains recommendations to the commission on crossborder crisis management in the banking sector, is a set of minimum requirements. it is also a sensible voice that the european commission should listen to. the public institutions cannot be left to their own devices in the current banking situation. they must look after the interests of eu citizens who use banking services. the four main recommendations: the definition of a crisis framework, the regulation of crossborder systemic banks, the creation of an eu financial stability fund and the creation of a recovery and resolution unit are clearly steps in the right direction, which is why i decided to support them.
in writing. - i was and am in favour of enlarging the european union to include new countries. the union can't be an exclusive club. i therefore welcomed the efforts of the icelandic government to join the eu. and it's hard to imagine a less controversial candidate than the icelandic. the fact that iceland is part of the european economic area is also of great importance. for this reason, iceland's path to eu membership should be a record-breaking one. it is also important to note iceland's contribution to european cohesion. the tangible effects of eea grants are seen in poland and other eu countries at almost every turn. in view of all these facts, i have decided to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution closing the debate on the statements by the council and the commission pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure on iceland's application for membership of the european union. at the same time, i would like to express the hope that the ep will soon be voting with the icelandic members.
the next item is the joint debate on:- report by elmar broka and guy verhofstadt, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the draft council decision on the organisation and functioning of the european external action service (08029/2010 - c7-0090/2010 - 2010/0816 (nle)) and- statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the eu for foreign affairs and security policy (2010/2578 (rsp)).
thank you for your speech, mr brok. i prefer all of you to keep to the time. i understand that this was an important speech but, still, please keep to the time.
vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i am delighted to be here to discuss one of the most important issues on the european agenda – the creation of the external action service. let me begin with a word of gratitude for the constructive engagement of parliament and the rapporteurs – in particular elmar brok, guy verhofstadt and roberto gualtieri – throughout this process, and to the committees – afet, development, constitutional affairs, budget and budgetary control, the juri committee – whose work has improved the text of the eas decision in many ways. thank you also to the president of parliament. we have achieved a lot together in recent weeks, building the necessary ground among all concerned. i pay tribute to the other members of the quadrilogue – maroš šefčovič and the commission and the spanish presidency led by miguel moratinos together with colleagues in the council. i am especially grateful to the legal services who have offered us good advice and support throughout. the time has come to decide. in recent months, there has been, rightly, a lot of attention on the institutional complexities and the administrative intricacies. laying the foundation is a critical task, but without losing sight of the reasons we are creating this service, reasons that have become more and more obvious as i have travelled, on your behalf, to visit governments, military missions, and our delegations and programmes across the world. before going into some of the detail, i would just like to say something about the vision for the service in the future. there is no better place than this house and no better moment than today to remind ourselves why the service is so important to the european union and why it marks a change in how we operate in a fast-changing geopolitical landscape. we cannot afford to act in a disparate manner in a world that is seeing fundamental power shifts and where problems are increasingly complex and interlinked. we need to defend europe’s interests and project europe’s values in a more coherent and effective way, and we should be ambitious in how we do it. the european union and the member states have an impressive array of instruments, resources, relationships and expertise to help build a better, more stable world. now we need to bring all this together, to forge joined-up strategies and maximise our impact on the ground, particularly in the troubled parts of the world where our actions matter the most. wherever i have travelled – from gaza to haiti to east africa and the balkans – this has been my key conclusion. eu external action will always involve different actors. it is right and proper that development policy operates differently from diplomacy, crisis management or humanitarian aid. andris piebalgs, stefan füle and kristilina georgieva, together with other commission colleagues, have clear, distinct roles and i pay tribute to the work they are doing, but under lisbon we have the opportunity to operate together under one shared comprehensive political strategy – an aspiration now becoming reality. my vision for the eeas is one which ensures that when we speak, our voice is heard and when we engage, our actions make the difference. our citizens know very well that in the face of big problems – fragile states, pandemics, energy security, climate change and illegal migration – we are much more effective together. that effectiveness requires us to mobilise all the means at our disposal – diplomacy, political engagement, development assistance, civil and military crisis management tools – in support of conflict prevention, peace-building, security and stability. this is important for the future of europe and important for the future of the world. i have seen myself what we are capable of when we work together. when i travelled to east africa i saw what our naval operation, atalanta, was doing very well offshore, but i also saw the important capacity-building and development work onshore. as those engaged in our military mission were quick to say, the solution to the problems at sea lies on the land. that is why, working with andris piebalgs, we are making sure our programmes work better together, and why i will be returning to meet again with the leaders of kenya, tanzania, mauritius, seychelles, south africa, mozambique, the regional organisations and the african union, to discuss how we can support african leadership to find political solutions on the ground, and how we can support the people of somalia to a better future. i know what we can do and what we are doing and i also know what we can achieve for the future. i am ambitious, i confess, for i believe it is time to move forward and to get the service up and running quickly. we have a good deal on the table: a draft decision and a set of declarations that form a coherent package. mr president, i am submitting them formally to the record of today’s proceedings. i will not dwell on each and every aspect, but let me highlight just a few specific points on how we have found the proper safeguards in areas that i know are important to this house. first and foremost, the text makes clear that we are safeguarding the community method in all areas where it exists today. the external action service will cooperate closely with the commission services as part of the eu system. second, i know how important political accountability is for this house. i am confident that a good framework has been found through the political declaration on political accountability. i am looking forward to the intense dialogue and exchange of information with the european parliament and will make sure that my collaborators give high priority to this aspect of their work. the many obligations inherent in my position do not allow me to be present as often as i would like in your debates, but i am happy that we have a system for my replacement in such cases, involving in particular colleagues from the commission and, from time to time, also members of the foreign affairs council, from the rotating presidency or the presidency trio. third, financial accountability. i am satisfied that we have clear language and guarantees regarding sound financial management, including appropriate solutions to issues such as discharge and subdelegation of budgetary powers to heads of delegation. as a sign of the importance i attach to this issue, i envisage a senior management team that not only has a chief executive officer in the executive secretary-general but also a chief operating officer in the senior director-general for budget and administration. fourth, we have agreed carefully balanced arrangements regarding development policy and instruments. i know there was some concern that we might lose sight of development policy in the new set-up. believe me, the opposite is the case. development is central to eu external action. it has given us a strong profile on the international stage as the world’s leading donor, so our cooperation programmes are a key tool in our bilateral and regional relationships. that remains the case in the new lisbon context, but development cannot be pursued on its own, separate from other strands of external relations. that is why we are creating a strong common platform, allowing us to work together – andris piebalgs, stefan füle and myself – to ensure that general development objectives and poverty reduction in particular are mainstreamed in our cooperation programmes. fifth, we have a balanced agreement on staff issues, between the wishes of member states to have at least one third of staff in the service coming from national diplomatic services – so we can draw on their expertise, language and historical ties – while at the same time ensuring at least 60% of permanent officials. in the same way, i am clear we need to ensure a proper gender and geographical balance, and not lose sight of wider diversity issues. i am personally committed to this. diversity is strength. a service that represents the eu should reflect that diversity. the wealth of experience, insights and languages that europe’s best diplomats will bring to the service will be one of our distinctive features and competitive advantage. sixth, you will have seen my declaration on the eas central administration. the idea is that we all have a shared understanding on how the service will look. it is important to try to get things right at the beginning, while giving ourselves the chance to review how things work in light of new priorities and developments. members of this house have asked a number of questions on the handling of crisis management and peace-building. i will ensure that the relevant units from the commission will deal with planning and programming of crisis response, conflict prevention and peace-building, and that the csdp structures work in close cooperation and synergy, both under my direct responsibility and authority within the appropriate structure. this is of course without prejudice to the specific nature, notably intergovernmental and communitarian, of the policies. effective coordination of the work of the various departments in the eas will be key. under my direct authority and responsibility, full coordination between all the services of the eas, in particular between the csdp structures and the other relevant services of the eas, will be ensured, respecting their specific nature. i will also ensure that the right coordination is established between the eu special representatives and the relevant departments in the service. finally, this house has also always paid great attention to human rights issues. it is a priority i fully share and i promise that, as high representative, i will give high priority to the promotion of human rights and good governance around the globe and make sure they are a silver thread that runs through everything that we do. there will be a human rights and democracy structure at headquarters level as well as focal points in all relevant union delegations with the task of monitoring the human rights situation and promoting an effective realisation of eu human rights policy goals. honourable members, europe needs the external action service to build a stronger foreign policy. we need an integrated platform to project european values and interests around the world. it is time to give ourselves the means to realise the ambition. it is time to get the right people in place to start doing the necessary work. i agree with the amendments that have been proposed and will support them in the council. it is important now that we move rapidly also with the amendments for the staff and financial regulations and an amending budget for 2010. as i began, i thank you for your cooperation and i count on your support. the vote you will make tomorrow, i hope, is an historic step in the development of the european union and, although it is not our final destination, it is a key staging post in realising our shared vision for the future.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would like to welcome to the table parliament’s opinion and strongly support its adoption, because i see that this positive vote will be an important moment in the establishment of the eas and it will be a clear important signal that the new service is receiving the democratic endorsement of this chamber. this decision will also be an appropriate reflection of the important role that the european parliament has played in the discussions over the new service. i have to express my high appreciation of the intensive work cathy ashton, the high representative, has done over the last few months. it is not every day that we establish a new service. even though it was difficult, it was complicated, we have managed to reach a political consensus in seven months since the new treaty came into force, which is, i think, a remarkable achievement. i think this is a testimony to the fact that cathy ashton achieved a very solid balance when she proposed the decision for the first time, but the decision as it was drafted needed to go through this democratic scrutiny process, and i think that the process was a very thorough one. if i look at the discussions we had in the quadrilogue with miguel moratinos, the members of this parliament, the rapporteurs brok, verhofstadt and gualtieri, and us on the side of the commission, i can tell you that we looked at every possible article and at every possible provision. we were always looking for the best possible solution and i really think that we have achieved it. in particular, the debate focused on three areas. the first one was how we can ensure that eeas will be a fully-fledged part of the eu system. we have discussed this very thoroughly, and i think that we will achieve it and have a truly european external action service. the second very important issue was how to secure appropriate financial accountability. here, again, we have been looking at all the possible options and i am sure now that even though we are going to create something new, where there will be three sources for the people who will work for the external action service, we will have all the appropriate financial accountability safeguards built into the system and i am sure that the system will weather the test of its future operation. the last big part of the discussion focused on development aid: how to manage it appropriately, how to keep the communitarian spirit of development aid and how to secure this parliament’s right of democratic scrutiny. again, i think we put a lot of ingenuity and thinking into the work, a lot of creative solutions, and i think that we have found a solution which will bring the best possible synergies. we can bring in the expertise of the member states, expertise from the commission, in-field contacts of our delegations, and i am sure that with this synergy we will be much more efficient when representing the european union abroad. i am looking forward very much to supporting the commission’s consent to this decision later this month and i can assure you that the commission will do its utmost to cooperate very closely with the high representative, with the council and with parliament to complete the process, finalising the issues on financial regulations and staff regulations, and to complete the budgetary process. i am already looking forward very much now to the efficient and excellent work of the external action service as from autumn of this year.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on development. - mr president! - what are you doing? your highness, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the negotiation is good and the final document is better than the original draft. i want to briefly explain the intentions of the development committee. the commission focused its opinion on a few key issues. first, we wanted the objectives of development cooperation to be more strongly reflected in the various policies of the european union. they defended the autonomy and independence of development cooperation. in other words, we did not want development cooperation to become a carrot - as someone said - in the arsenal of diplomatic instruments. i would like to thank mrs ashton very much for her words and statements today on development cooperation, because it was very important for the development committee. secondly, we wanted the control of operational expenditure by financial instruments to be more clearly controlled by the commissioner for development. thirdly, we wanted the staff of the new service to be not only professional diplomats from member states but also staff who had worked in the wider external world, dealing with development, trade and security.
that was a spontaneous reaction!
mr president, the high representative and vice-president, is, if i follow my british friend charles tannock, somebody whom we would prefer to call ‘foreign minister’ – he said he would prefer ‘diplomatic service’ to ‘eeas’. the long awaited eeas finally comes into being. in order to face new challenges, we need new instruments, and this is such an instrument. in particular, we need an efficient eu diplomacy capable of speaking with one voice, acting together and pooling resources. but it is essential to look above and beyond the details and technical arrangements of the new diplomatic service. first, without strong democratic political legitimacy, the eeas cannot be efficient. this legitimacy stems from the european parliament and national parliaments and their scrutiny, which should relate to the foreign policy’s main directions and basic choices. second, to have a stronger eeas, it has to be representative of the whole european union, the union of all 27 member states, old and new, small, medium and large, stretching from north to south, from east to west, with their particular interests and sensitivities. this is why it is so important to build a sense of common ownership, common identity and diplomatic culture based on geographic balance and representitivity. i hope our parliament will succeed in improving the council decision and, by doing so, making the new service more communitarian, more accountable in political and budgetary terms and more geographically representative, thus winning citizens’ trust and support. the next stage will be the staff and financial regulations, where the european parliament has codecision powers, and it is an important opportunity to further improve the eeas... (the president cut off the speaker.)
mr. chairman, please! the european external action service is established on the basis of the treaty of lisbon, which was adopted without a referendum, i.e. without the possibility for citizens of the eu member states to express their will. the project leaves many blank spaces to be filled in and detailed. we are concerned about the attempts of some countries to take over the highest positions and establishments. the lack of conciliation between the positions, particularly on the basis of geographical criteria, and the simultaneous isolation of the eeas from national parliaments is a serious concern. the committee on foreign affairs has lost the amendment allowing member states' parliaments to be fully involved in the control and supervision of the common foreign and security policy and the security and defence policy. the fact that these services have been deprived of their legitimacy by national parliaments indicates a tendency to create a special club and alienate it from the peoples of europe. in addition, it is necessary to consider whether, in the context of the financial crisis, it is really necessary to duplicate the activities of many union offices in different member states.
first of all, i would like to emphasise the fact that the european parliament has been so constructively and effectively involved in the creation of the european external action service, which, in cooperation with the high representative, has, i believe, led to some solutions that significantly enhance the potential of the new service. but let us remember that when filling new posts, posts in the european external action service, we must not only take into account these important criteria: the professionalism, experience and skills of new staff, but also the geographical criterion. it is important to remember that the qualified officials and diplomats from the new member states naturally, obviously, do not have a few decades of experience in the eu institutions, and at the same time their knowledge and skills absolutely predestine them to occupy high positions in the headquarters or in the agendas of the new service. that is why i am calling on the high representative today to first and foremost take the courage to reach out to the poles, the lithuanians, the latvians, the hungarians, the slovaks. i am confident that their skills and knowledge will significantly enhance the potential of the new services. and at the same time, i believe, and i wish you, your highness, with all my heart, that you will not lack courage and uncompromisingness, determination, that success, success of the new services... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr. chairman, please! high representative for foreign affairs! i'm not going to let you do this. i would like to begin by congratulating the report which has led to this compromise, which will allow us to create an effective external action service, and which i hope will be adopted by parliament tomorrow. we have high hopes for this ministry. the high representative mrs catherine ashton identified seven priorities for the deployment of this service. i would like to emphasize the importance of promoting human rights or development policy. at the same time, i would also like to stress the importance of the solution adopted, which will make it possible to create a geographically representative service with an employment correction mechanism. it will help all countries, especially the new ones, to recognise that this is a service created on behalf of all of us. i would like to express my hope, and i am not alone in this hope, that the solution adopted by parliament will also be honoured by the council.
mrs ashton! it's a big day today before the vote tomorrow on a very important document that will lay the foundations for the functioning of the european external action service. we would like to see european diplomacy. the lisbon treaty gives us that opportunity. but i have to say, this process, the process of creating the service, has been a little bit of a concern. the first is the question of the transfer of authority to you, mrs ashton, by the great powers. it is important that the great countries of the european union do not keep their foreign policy to themselves, as they do today, so that you can function with our common mandate. it'll make you more efficient. the second issue is the issue of representativeness. well, this requirement that the service be representative, that it be appropriately represented geographically, is extremely important and i would very much like to see it ensured in your functioning as head of this service.
mr. chairman, mrs. ashton, please. the external action service is a good step towards a stronger europe. it will represent europe, but i believe it should also pursue the objectives which are fundamental to the union and to all our countries, such as the european union's energy policy. it is therefore important that future staff specialise in a wide range of european activities, not just in diplomacy. it should therefore be composed of experts in the fields of economics, economic development or energy. therefore, the rules for recruiting staff to the external action service should be flexible enough to not only meet geographical criteria but also to recruit world-class professionals from outside the public administration. it's a requirement that's been put forward by ngos, and i think it can help us achieve our goals. therefore, for example, representatives of the dg for energy should be represented.
i am glad that there is a certain consensus in this chamber, because the representatives of the ppe, the socialists and my group have spoken on the question of the application of the geographical criterion, and i hope that the commissioner will accept that this is indeed the voice of the whole of the european parliament and that you will take it for granted. secondly, the european external action service should not replace national diplomacy and i hope it has no such ambition. and that means that she should concentrate her attention primarily on what mrs hautala, mr mushroom, said, that is, on human rights issues. we are called to do this, these are european values. and i would appeal to mrs ashton that, when you apply the geographical criterion, the second very important thing is the defence of human rights and the spread of those human rights.
lady ashton, thank you very much again for your great work and cooperation with the european parliament over the last month. it was very important for us. colleagues negotiating with vice-president šefčovič, and all the rapporteurs, leaders of committees and negotiators – it was great work; thank you very much. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the british petroleum's responsibility for the gulf of mexico oil spill is only part of the truth. the department of the interior conducted a security sweep of the facility two weeks before the fatal leak. the market regulator in america had approved the emergency system 10 days before the accident. despite the increasingly harsh and complex regulations on offshore drilling, something has not worked on the government side. the gulf of mexico accident shouldn't be a reason to shut down similar facilities around the world. a ban on offshore drilling in europe or the us will only have one consequence: a significant increase in oil transport by tankers, which will cause obvious damage to the environment. finally, i would like to thank taiwan for its help in sending one of the largest ships to clean up the gulf of mexico, which is already doing so. this often unrecognized country provides another inspiring example of responsibility for global affairs.
we are all aware of the scale and magnitude of the environmental disaster that has occurred in the gulf of mexico. it's been almost two months since our last debate on offshore drilling platform safety. in the meantime, there was also a debate in the environment committee. millions of gallons of oil have been pouring into the gulf for three months now, devastating the entire ecosystem in the region. the stain has already reached the coast of florida, threatening cuba and mexico. the cost of repairing the damage was also enormous. bp has reported that the cost of fighting the tragic oil spill in the gulf has already exceeded $3 billion. in the light of the above, i would like to express my support for the proposals for the creation of a special fund and insurance against oil spills in european waters. i believe that the fuel companies, while minimizing the risk, should be prepared to assume financial responsibility in the event of a disaster. the creation of such a fund would provide a form of security and would be an expression of environmental and social responsibility for the company's own investments. i also believe that a uniform system of technical inspection of platforms in the territorial waters of the european union and a periodic and publicly available assessment of their security status should be introduced.
madam president! we have received very interesting information from commissioner oettinger and commissioner damanaki in this room today. this information confirmed that the commission had taken a number of actions quickly after the gulf disaster. the truth is, however, that the results of the talks and the arrangements are still very preliminary. remember, we're talking about safety and responsibility in oil drilling. any mistakes in this area cause huge losses in nature, as well as material losses. in my opinion, this should be a strong incentive for the european union to impose a temporary moratorium on new drilling. until we can be sure that the mine is safe, we should proceed with extreme caution.
i think we all have a sense of what the causes of the current crisis in kyrgyzstan are. president bakiyev's power was hated enough to be overthrown, but at the same time there were pogroms and a humanitarian catastrophe in the ferghana valley, especially in the osh region and jalalabad. we have already mentioned here what the fergana valley is for this subregion, how important it is because of its water resources, but it should also be noted that the pogroms were inspired by radical groups, such as the islamic movement of uzbekistan or the islamic jihad union. they were funded according to some sources by, among others, the son of the deposed president bakiyev. there was a referendum on changing the constitution. we are pleased that as many as 90% of the participants supported these changes. you are president roza otunbayeva, who is a strong woman who wants these changes and has the support of the majority of the population, she wants to strengthen the parliament. and here is a big success of the current authorities in kyrgyzstan. we should support that. the peaceful conduct of the referendum and the good assessments, including those of the organization for security and cooperation in europe, give the impression of stability, but in reality the stability is very fragile, very tentative. the reasons for this include the erosion of the state structures in kyrgyzstan, the elections scheduled for october 10 which do not allow for faster reforms, the economic and social crisis, as well as the informal power structures on the territory of kyrgyzstan, groups that could be called criminal. and of course, the humanitarian disaster that we're trying to address, but it's not really solved yet. these problems are also, in my opinion, exacerbated by the rather vague approach of russia, china (the main players in the region) and of course the approach of the united states. it has already been said here that russia, partly because of the presence of the base in manas, has a different approach to kyrgyzstan and this of course has a huge impact. i very much support what the commissioners have said, that we should increase this humanitarian aid and that we should also set up an independent commission to investigate the causes of this crisis.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, honourable members, i welcome the opportunity to participate in this session on human rights and hiv/aids. it is a timely debate, as we are only 11 days from the opening of the 18th world aids conference, which will take place in vienna. the spread of hiv continues to cause considerable suffering. the impact of hiv is worse in situations where human rights are not respected, and we know that conflict situations can lead to an increase in hiv infections, especially when sexual abuse against women and children is common. in the absence of proper anti-discrimination laws, people living with hiv are often too frightened to come forward for help because of fear of stigma. in countries where homosexuality is criminalised, some face the additional fear of imprisonment and, in extreme cases, even the death penalty. human rights should empower individuals, including people affected with hiv. the right of everyone to enjoy the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health implies that those who are affected by hiv must have access to information as well as effective prevention and treatment options. affected people should not be discriminated against because of that status. honourable members, we know that hiv infection is used in some countries as a reason to exclude asylum seekers from their right to seek protection. infected persons may lose their right to work; infected children are sometimes excluded from school. the european union has been at the forefront of the defence of the rights of hiv-affected and infected people. the european council adopted conclusions in november 2009, with an eu programme for action to confront hiv/aids through external action, including the need to address the human rights aspect. the european union has been very active in promoting freedom of travel for people living with hiv. our stance is that hiv-specific restrictions on entry, stay and residence based on that status are discriminatory and do not protect public health. we therefore welcome the recent modifications of the regulations in the us and in china as positive signs. in the last months eu representatives, both in brussels and in partner countries, have made several démarches on this issue, including voicing eu concerns about the criminalisation of sexual behaviour among consenting adults – uganda, burundi, malawi – or harassment of aids activists by police and judicial authorities in senegal. the recent adoption of an eu tool kit to help promote and protect the respect of human rights by lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people will further consolidate eu action in this area.
on behalf of the ppe group. - mr president! - i have to go. i want to thank baroness ashton very much for the fact that while everyone is watching the game outside, we are here to debate the rights of people with aids. we're debating because it's a very painful issue for all of us. despite progress in treatment and prevention in recent years, we are less than five years away from meeting the millennium development goals, under which un members committed to curbing the spread of hiv/aids and reducing the number of new infections. but the truth is, the number of people infected with the virus is increasing. this is particularly true in certain regions and for certain social groups of women and girls. that is why in our resolution we declare and strongly support three types of action. first, legal action to encourage countries particularly vulnerable to aids to make the fight against aids a priority and to prepare plans to combat the disease, including the preparation and implementation of anti-discrimination laws to protect vulnerable groups. second, we put a lot of emphasis on educational activities. it is particularly important to ensure access to hiv education and information in order to transform discrimination into understanding and acceptance. this is not only important in developing, underdeveloped countries, but also in european countries, and it's still a painful and important issue. in addition to the educational activities, we emphasize the importance of access to certain medicines. for example, a free trade agreement with india will be signed this fall. one of the fundamental problems we encountered during our visit to india was the emphasis that this country produces very cheap drugs that are supposed to prevent and fight aids. when this treaty is signed with the european union, this will be limited and therefore this issue must also be taken into account.
on behalf of the s&d group. the debate we have had in the european parliament in recent months clearly shows the need for changes in the common agricultural policy. none of us doubts that the cap should contribute to ensuring food security in the form of good and healthy food for the coming decades, as well as to preserving biodiversity and protecting the environment. in the future, the cap should respond more to social needs, job creation, the position of women and young people in agriculture. i want to make it clear that farmers must be guaranteed a stable and decent income in return for their hard work and the delivery of high-quality public goods. the report we are adopting today takes account of the proposals put forward by members representing the political groups and the individual member states. we are faced with major decisions to choose a specific path so that future cap spending benefits both farmers and consumers. finally, i would like to thank mr. lyon very much for his very good cooperation.
mr. chairman, please! i also congratulate mr lyons on his report, which sets out a vision of the major challenges facing european agriculture. ladies and gentlemen! we have a problem of equalising the level of subsidies between the member states, a very serious problem. if we look at what the subsidies would look like if the current system were to continue, we see huge differences: there are countries where it is over 500 euros per hectare after 2013, and there are countries, mostly new member states, where it is even below 100 euros per hectare. we have to face this problem and solve this problem. you can't sustain such a big difference for long. it's going to be a tough one. i thank mr. smith for seeing the problem of the budget. we can't solve this problem without having a bigger budget, because it's hard to take from those who have more, but rather to add to those who have less. in the words of the french revolution: "liberty, equality, fraternity", "we have no problem with freedom, but equality and fraternity need more", i appeal to my colleagues from the old member states to help solve this problem in a spirit of equality and fraternity.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. moving away from the historical way of determining the amount of support and introducing a new, fair distribution of cap funds among farmers across the european union, without dividing it into 'old' and 'new' member states, is one of the most important challenges for the cap after 2013. i am in favour of a two-pillar support model, in favour of payments going to farmers and being used for the development and modernisation of farms, and not to owners who, when they receive money, do not invest in agriculture and inhibit the necessary changes. in taking on new challenges, the cap must continue to take environmental values and food safety into account. i also propose that the tried and tested instruments of market regulation be left in place. an example would be the milk quotas. if it's gone, what will we replace it with? of course, there are some ideas, but we don't have any certainty... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the future of the common agricultural policy after 2013 is of the utmost importance to us. the cap is a key element in many important decisions - the shape of the eu budget, the future of agriculture, farmers and rural areas. the whole european parliament should be aware of the importance of the cap for the future of the eu. the key is, of course, direct payments, but also to achieve a level playing field between countries. today, the differences between the levels of subsidies in the member states are too great. it undermines the sense of solidarity, equality and community. what farmers need most is income stability, even over longer periods of time. without this, it is very difficult to modernise farms and to maintain the positive environmental and cultural impact of agriculture. let us therefore try to ensure that future changes to the cap lead to a stabilisation of european farmers' incomes. thank you very much. thank you.
in writing. in reforming the cap, we must not forget the principles of integration, solidarity and community. direct payments have a significant impact on food security. they not only help to stabilise farmers' incomes, but also compensate for the costs of meeting the increasing demands placed on agriculture. if we do not equalize the level of direct support, this main cap financial instrument will continue to divide the european union into old and new member states. the abandonment of the historical division criteria would not only be a symbolic gesture towards more complete integration, but would also contribute to ensuring a level playing field in the single community market. moreover, it is necessary that the rural development strategy remains a key component of the cap, supporting broad economic and social development. the key is to continue restructuring and modernising farms and to pursue any innovation aimed at increasing productivity and improving competitiveness in the enlarged union. a strong second pillar is the opportunity to facilitate the start-up of young farmers, improve the quality of life, activate the society and improve the situation of women in rural areas.
since then, negotiations with mercosur countries, which had been suspended in 2004, have been resumed under the 1999 mandate. such a major decision should be preceded by a political debate in the european parliament and in the council. i understand that the stakes of the talks are extremely high, because the mercosur countries are a large market, a market for eu industrial products and services. but we should also protect the interests of our farmers and the agri-food sector. the possible conclusion of a bilateral preferential trade agreement with the mercosur countries could have very negative effects, inter alia, on the poultrymeat, beef and veal, pigmeat, sugar, dairy products and ethanol sectors. in that case, some compensation should be offered to farmers. experts estimate that the conclusion of the agreement could result in a very large loss of income for farmers. it will be even higher if it is both bilateral and at the wto level.
member of the commission. − mr president, i will try to answer some of the questions because a lot of questions have been raised, but many were also already answered in my introductory statement. first of all on the mandate. several members criticised the fact that we are working on the basis of a mandate going back to 1999. the 1999 directives task us – and i am quoting – ‘with negotiating a balanced and comprehensive agreement with mercosur with the aim of liberalising substantially all trade in line with the eu’s commitment at the wto. this applies to all areas to be covered by the agreement, including agriculture’. that is still true. that is still what we have to do, so nothing much has to be added to this mandate. in the mean time, we have the problem of climate change and the world has changed since then. yes, we have noticed that too, and we will take this into consideration in the negotiations. that is not the reason to change the mandate. there was another member who said that council should be here and that council should instruct us. the council does not have to instruct us. we have a mandate to negotiate and, if the negotiation is over and eventually we come to a result, we initial, the council signs and parliament ratifies. we are not instructed by the council. and happily so, because this is a community matter and it is an exclusive competence of the european union whereby the commission has very clear competences. we will stick to that. i am ready to discuss at length any of the elements. i have done so with the inta committee and i am ready to go back to the inta committee. you will be kept informed of what we are negotiating, what is put on the table and so on, but everybody has his role to play and we will play the role that the commission has to play in this respect. as for the problem of the protectionist measures taken recently by argentina, these measures and practices are clearly of concern to the eu and we immediately asked argentina for clarification. a letter was sent by the director-general for trade to his argentinean counterpart on 12 may. a formal démarche was launched by the eu delegation in buenos aires and several meetings were held with the mission of argentina and its ambassador in brussels to express our strongest concerns. we have also insisted that the commitment to reject protectionism in all its forms be directly included in the eu-mercosur joint communiqué. last week in buenos aires we raised this topic bilaterally with the relevant argentinean authorities, in the press and in the context of the eu-mercosur first round of negotiations. our message was very strong and very clear. we indicated that these measures, no matter whether they are based on legal written grounds or not, go against the spirit of negotiating an fta with the eu and risk having a clear negative impact on the negotiating process. we were further intending to discuss the issue with argentina on 6 july in the joint committee, but argentina announced its postponement last week. we will insist that we have this meeting as soon as possible. in addition, they appear at first glance to be inconsistent with argentina’s commitments in the g20 framework and possibly with its wto commitments. we will continue monitoring this issue very attentively and, if these measures and practices were to be maintained, carefully analyse them before deciding on the best possible solution to address this problem. it remains the position of the commission that protectionist measures should be avoided particularly in the current global economic context, and one of the elements that was mentioned, the deficit with argentina, is certainly a very good one. on sugar:la commission est parfaitement consciente de la sensibilité de la question du sucre, c'est pourquoi l'offre à la colombie et au pérou a été limitée à des contingents tarifaires à droit nul pour un volume modeste et sans réduction tarifaire hors contingent. des contingents semblables sont prévus dans le cadre des négociations avec l'amérique centrale. les quantités cumulées colombie, pérou et amérique centrale représentent moins de 2 % de la consommation européenne. en ce qui concerne les mesures phytosanitaires, environnementales et autres... i made it very clear in my statements that we are going to stick to the food safety requirements, and these are the ones that can be enforced within the wto. we will do that. if you look at the imports of beef – and this is also partly in answer to mr tarabella, who has left the plenary in the mean time – he will notice that, subsequently to sps problems with brazilian beef, the imports decreased considerably. so we are imposing them: we are monitoring them and we are imposing them and will continue to do so. but we should realise, also in this european parliament, that a certain number of european requirements have been decided internally that are the result of a political process in which the european parliament was very heavily involved and that we cannot impose through the wto. we have to stick to the ones that we can impose and make the wto respect: we will certainly do so in the case of food safety. in the case of the others, there the european union has to consider what they really want to do. they should realise that, if they impose that kind of requirement on our agriculture, this has economic and financial consequences. but those are not the ones that we can impose on other countries. i have tried to answer most of the questions that were reiterated in the questions put by the members, but of course i am ready for further discussion. i presume that this is not the last time we will discuss mercosur in this plenary.
in writing. resuming negotiations with mercosur countries without consulting the member states is a very dirty game. in 2004, the talks were suspended because of the negative effects that trade between the eu and mercosur members could have on our agriculture. the sectors most at risk are beef, pork, poultry, milk, fruit and vegetables, sugar and bioethanol. it is estimated that the signing of the agreement would cause losses of between several and a dozen billion euros. the liberalisation of trade between the union and mercosur must be preceded by a thorough analysis of the impact of such an agreement on the community market and by sound consultations with the representatives of the parties involved. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to thank mr cadek very warmly for his courageous report, which is extremely important for the common fisheries policy currently being drawn up. the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is the principle that the member states are responsible for the implementation of the common fisheries policy. fishermen believe that this key report should have a major impact on the shape of the future common fisheries policy in the context of the market organisation. i'm not going to let you down. in many meetings you have repeated that in the context of itq, instead of criticism, solutions should be proposed for future policy. i am convinced that the implementation of the report's assumptions is an alternative to the approach advocated by the commission.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. i have little time, so i would just like to highlight one of the messages of mr cadek's report. fish should not be treated in the same way as other industrial products, but should be subject to the wto rules on trade applicable to delicate products. the common commercial policy takes little account of the specificities of this sensitive sector and the interests of community producers. it is therefore a good idea to examine whether it would be beneficial to abolish the rules on industrial products of non-agricultural origin for fishery products in order to align trade in fishery products with the requirements applicable to food and delicate products.
member of the commission. − mr president, i cannot get a grip, but what i can do is to be very brief. i would like to say that we are taking care of all the concerns mentioned by the members. as mr de gucht and i have already mentioned, we are trying to find a balance. we need a viable fisheries sector and we have some obligations to the wto and other international bodies. i would like to reassure everybody that we are doing our best to contribute so that our cap reform will be for the best future of our fishermen.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes) *** i have an announcement to make. ms eva dudzinska is sitting to the right of me. she has spent almost 35 years in the european parliament. for the last 10 years her activities have been closely linked to the plenary. she is now retiring. i would like to thank her and wish her all the best for the future. (applause)
i would like to thank and congratulate my colleague, mr alvaro, as well as our previous rapporteur, ms jeanine hennis-plasschaert, and all the colleagues who have put so much work into this agreement. thank you so much!
thank you for your attention. i'll do that for you.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, elmar brok, and also our negotiators, elmar brok, guy verhofstadt and roberto gualtieri. this was a big job, involving many committees of the european parliament. we have a broad consensus. thank you to all my colleagues. i also wanted to emphasise that we have two important reports in the near future, by colleague ingeborg gräßle and by colleague bernhard rapkaya, and that we must continue to work on this.
we all join in your statement. - before the vote on the 11th amendment:
we will correct all translations according to the original texts. we'll do that test. thank you, madam!
thank you for your attention! we'll correct the texts to the original. - after the vote on paragraph 44:
we voted on paragraph 44, as i told you. i repeat: the amendment is rejected, paragraph 44 is adopted. that's the vote.
ladies and gentlemen! if there are so many protests, we'll vote on paragraph 44 again. we vote for section 44! i didn't get a clear vote either, because you didn't raise your hand. - before we vote on paragraph 59:
we now vote on paragraph 59! article 59 is on your screen all the time. the vote is separate. - before we vote on the preamble to paragraph c:
we have a different set of clues here. preamble c needs to be voted on now. - before the vote on the preamble's ae item:
sir, my friend! i would like to make it clear that this was not just a request from the ppe group, but also a request from another political group, so we are leaving the vote divided because this was also a request from another group.
ladies and gentlemen, the president! may i have your attention, please?
i voted in favour of the report by mr alvaro. to be effective, we need to have the real tools to fight terrorists. one very important preventive tool is to control and restrict the financial resources that go to and belong to terrorists. very often, money is the fuel of terrorism. if we do not have them, we will be able to reduce terrorist activity, which is the purpose of our action. better control of financial flows can significantly hinder the commission and preparation of terrorist acts. and i'm very pleased that we've reached an agreement and that we've accepted both the agreement and the report.
thank you, mr president! the european external action service provides an opportunity to make the european union's foreign policy more effective, coherent and strategically reflective. this is the last moment to prove that we can work together and that our impact on the world has not diminished. the european external action service will represent the common position of the european union as a whole, but without taking into account and coordinating the interests and sensitivities of individual member states, the effective functioning of the service will not be possible. such practices must become a priority of the european union's foreign policy. the adequacy of geographical representation should be one of the fundamental principles of the establishment of the service. it is necessary to ensure a professional but also proportionate representation of the diplomatic services of the member states in this service from the first day of its operation. the compromise introduced by the meaningful representation brings a special responsibility to the structures of this service to ensure that indeed all member states are adequately represented in this newly created service, and i thank mr brock for the excellent work he has done on this report. thank you.
mr. chairman, please! today we have taken a decision that will speed up the creation of the european external action service. i want to draw attention to some important issues that we should consider. first, foreign policy requires coordination across many areas and is difficult to separate from activities such as development policy, trade policy, the functioning of global financial institutions and economic affairs in a globalised world. secondly, the union's diplomatic services should be community-based. the european parliament has the important regulatory, control and budgetary functions. thirdly, the ambiguous positioning and subordination of the european service is a matter of great concern. this could lead to the creation of another eu institution. fourthly, there is a lack of clearly defined competences for the forms of cooperation with the member states' diplomatic services. and finally, fifth, let's remember that good diplomacy is built over many years. these services should refer to the values and identity of the european union. finally, i would like to say that the union as a whole should be better prepared for crisis management and civil-military capabilities in the field of... (the president cut the speaker off)
i voted for this report. i would like to say, however, that i am in favour of maintaining partial intervention in agricultural markets in difficult situations. it's not against the principles of the free market. we need to pay more attention to rural development, infrastructure development, education, demographics. we have fewer young farmers and more and more old farmers. the conditions and the standard of living on farms and in the countryside are much lower, much lower and much worse than in the cities. and the income of farm families is about 60% of the income of nonfarm families. the farmers were expressing this by organizing protests. in conclusion, sustainable development of agriculture and rural areas should be a priority.
in writing. − during the previous belgian presidency, work began in laeken nine years ago on a constitutional treaty to strengthen the european union's foreign policy by making it coherent and visible on the international stage. despite the many complications of eu treaty reform, today the belgians have the chance to finalise their efforts and launch the european external action service on the anniversary of the entry into force of the lisbon treaty (1 december 2009). we, as members of the european parliament, empowered by the same treaty, can help. after months of negotiations between the ep delegation and catherine ashton, the eu's high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, the eeas is taking the form that the ep has called for, and the report by elmar brok and guy verhofstadt is an important document that sums up the work and is worth supporting. what did the ep achieve in its negotiations with the high representative? first, the community rather than intergovernmental nature of the service, i.e. the provision of 60% of posts for eu officials. secondly, political and budgetary control of the service by the ep, i.e. the possibility of interviewing candidates for heads of delegation and financial control of the institutions similar to the control of the ec and the eusr. third, a balanced division of posts taking into account nationality and gender, as well as a review of the composition of the service in 2013 to correct any imbalance.
in writing. - mr president, in connection with the riots and coup d'état which took place on 11 june this year in southern kyrgyzstan, particularly in the cities of osh and jalalabad, in which some 300 people were killed and more than 2 000 injured. i believe that the european parliament, as the guardian of democracy and the rule of law and respect for human rights, should always react decisively and try to prevent the destabilisation processes that are currently taking place in kyrgyzstan. i would therefore like to express my solidarity and support for the people of kyrgyzstan by supporting this resolution by voting in favour of its adoption.
in writing. −hiv/aids infections are global and do not affect so-called risk groups or specific regions. now it's not just a problem for drug addicts or homosexuals, it's a problem for everyone. the greatest risk is to young, educated, white, working in large corporations. nearly half of all people living with hiv are women. they are more susceptible to infection, since the virus is much more easily transmitted from a man to a woman than vice versa. the 18th international aids conference (vienna, 18-23 july) stressed the need to intensify information campaigns targeting women and young people. women must have universal, easy access to information on sexual and reproductive health and health services. free distribution of anti-hiv medicines to pregnant women is essential to prevent transmission of the disease from mother to child. school-based sexual and reproductive rights education programmes are key to hiv/aids prevention. the most visible consequences of a lack of sex education in schools are the infection of young people with hiv and other sexually transmitted diseases and the early, unplanned pregnancies of young women. the hiv/aids epidemic, due to its reach, the risk of death and the high rate of infection among young people, should be a sufficient reason to introduce sound sex education in schools. that is why i voted for the adoption of the resolution on aids/hiv in the context of the 18th international aids conference.
in writing. - our draft resolution is balanced. welcomes the moves by member states that have signed and ratified the convention on the prohibition of cluster munitions (ccm), but at the same time recognises that some member states, due to their geographical situation, will not be able to sign the convention at this time. our text calls on these states (as among others poland) to act to meet the requirements (such as significantly fewer unexploded ordnance and a smaller blast radius) that effectively limit potential civilian casualties under the additional protocol to the geneva convention on certain conventional weapons (ccw). this is the path chosen by poland and other eu countries (such as finland, latvia, estonia, romania and slovakia) as well as the usa.
in writing. - i voted today in favour of the report by alain cadek, which deals with many important aspects of protecting the eu market for fishery products in the context of the reform of the common fisheries policy. i supported this report because i wanted to highlight one particular risk it raises: the lack of reliable and comprehensive information for consumers on the health benefits of individual fish species, their composition and their origin. in the absence of consumer awareness, price becomes the only argument in the market. european producers often offer much more valuable products than imported ones, but they are doomed to lose in this unequal battle. the identification provisions should therefore be sealed. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. we are still looking for effective ways to influence countries outside the european union, to influence them to respect human rights. these should never be about the people or humanitarian aid, but we need to look for the kind of intelligent pressure on the mugabe regime that would make situations like this with mr. farai maguwo never happen again. when it comes to protecting human rights, it's a matter of our fundamental credibility. we have to be very clear here, "yes", "yes", "no", "no". they're either followed or they're not. we can't just settle for small steps. i feel that there is an element of complacency in some of the speeches of the speakers. we have said clearly: president mugabe's government is illegitimate, his actions are reprehensible and we should state this very clearly.
madam president! we all know that diamonds can be a blessing, but they can also be a curse. we wish zimbabwe and its people well, and we want the changes in this country to lead to a full and positive transformation one day. but today we're talking about someone for whom diamonds can be a curse. farai maguwu was arrested on charges of disseminating information harmful to the state. and that's what happens a lot of times. the authorities of different countries don't understand that it is those who violate human rights that work to their detriment and loss of image, not those who reveal and publicize such cases. the release of faraj maguwo is therefore in the interest of zimbabwe itself and i hope that the authorities will heed our call on this matter. we know of constructive examples of diamonds being used for healthy development. botswana is one example. so our call for the diamond revenues to be used for health, education and social services is both right and achievable.
madam president! the decisions taken in 2000, and subsequently endorsed by the governments of the countries concerned and the international diamond industry in 2003 in kimberley, were born out of the right idea of stopping the trade in 'blood diamonds'. an agreement was reached on the suppression of rebel movements that used the proceeds of diamond sales to wage an illegal war to overthrow the legitimately elected national authorities. these kinds of movements are the cause of the internal destabilization and internal conflict that is happening in many countries in africa today. this is why the reports of human rights violations and the deaths of many civilians after the military and police took over the marange diamond mine are disturbing. we call on the government of that country to take all necessary measures in accordance with the provisions of the kimberley process to restore the mine to normal operation. we also condemn the unlawful detention and demand the release of faraj magu.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. we often ask ourselves in this chamber, and we are asked in our constituencies, how effective is your work in defending human rights? listening to a fellow communist who says that these speeches can bring down the regime here, i am happy and i wish that dictatorships in belarus, in zimbabwe and everywhere else where people suffer under dictatorships, would fall under the influence of the votes in this room. i am also saddened by the attitude of mrs de keyser and my colleagues mr romev and mr rued. two months ago, you said the same thing, that this is not the room, this is not the time to discuss venezuela. there is a time and a place, and we must defend these people regardless of their political sympathies. president chávez and his subordinate apparatus have engaged in numerous acts of political persecution and harassment of the democratic opposition. in this context, in calling for the release of ms afiuni, i am calling on the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to address - i am almost finished - a petition to the venezuelan authorities expressing the european union's concerns about the violation of human rights, democracy and the rule of law in that country.
- madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. it is very good that parliament is dealing with the situation in north korea, because it is a matter of the greatest concern to our societies. we recently saw north korean athletes competing in the world cup. we were especially impressed by their first performance, when korean footballers played as equals against brazil. the next few games, they got worse. why am i talking about this sporting event? well, it is reported that while the korean players had great success in their previous appearances 40 years ago, it was not to the satisfaction of the regime. the athletes were repressed after that performance. they were held in forced labor camps. i'm just pointing out that we should also look at this situation now so that something like this doesn't happen. what is needed is an appeal and pressure from the sports authorities, who have some ability to put pressure on the korean authorities to prevent a similar situation from happening this time. we're very concerned about what's going to happen to these athletes.
on behalf of the ecr group. unfortunately, it is not as mr vigenin or mr martin said, unfortunately it is not as if we were in agreement on this matter in this chamber, because we have just heard from the communist group that they have some reservations about our position. that's unfortunate, because it would seem that we should be united on this issue. i come from a country where communism was in power, and i was an adult witness to what communism can do, and i remember how we waited with hope for the voice of the free world, the west. we sometimes overestimated its importance, but we were very happy to wait for someone to speak up for our rights, and i think that we as a free world today should provide that voice today, only that it requires what mp häfner talked about, which is to provide a free media, or at least access to a free media in north korea. and that's what we should be doing, working with the united states, because only by working with the united states can we ensure that the north koreans have access to a free media. that's what we should be doing.
madam president! i have a really difficult last name, and i'm used to having trouble pronouncing it. history shows that in countries with totalitarian regimes, human rights violations are commonplace, but the situation in north korea is appalling. the government of the dprk denies the existence of any human rights violations. but this is in stark contrast to the accounts of eyewitnesses, refugees and fugitives. there are labor camps that are places of torture, slave labor and starvation for many thousands of citizens of the korean state who have dared to criticize the totalitarian system or are politically "uncertain". man in korea is reduced to the status of an object, without free will or the ability to express it openly. for example, there are reports of forced marriages being broken up because of class differences. therefore, i call on all countries that are in any way economically linked to north korea to apply pressure on the government of north korea to demonstrate that the plight of many thousands of koreans is not an indifferent world and is not an internal matter of north korea.
madam president! north korea, along with cuba, is the last vestige of communism in the world. it is tragic that 20 years after the collapse of this criminal system in europe, there are countries where people are starving, tortured, imprisoned or forced to work in labour camps or concentration camps in the name of this sick ideology. the dream of many north koreans is simply to escape their country. and it is our duty as people of the free world - especially in our evolving relationship with the people's republic of china - to ensure that these refugees are not extradited to the korean authorities, because that means they will face severe imprisonment or even death. i am focusing on this aspect of our resolution because i do not believe in the effectiveness of the calls from our parliament, but also from the whole free world, to stop the human rights violations in north korea. so if we cannot effectively improve the situation in korea, let us do everything we can to give those who have escaped from this prison a chance to have a better life. even in china, which of course as a state itself is far from european standards of freedom, democracy and respect for human rights. but life is better there than in north korea.
madam president! the united nations and numerous non-governmental organizations have been constantly informing the international community about the repression of tens of thousands of north koreans. torture, deportation to forced labor camps, often for their political beliefs, is commonplace in this country. a significant proportion of the population suffers from malnutrition and lack of adequate medical care, and the north korean government refuses to cooperate with united nations bodies in any way, thereby preventing the north korean people from having access to any international humanitarian assistance. i believe that it is the moral duty of the european parliament to call on the authorities of the democratic people's republic of korea to put an end to these practices as soon as possible. at the same time, given the enormous influence of the people's republic of china on pyongyang's policies, the european commission should raise these issues in the eu-china dialogue. in order to better coordinate action, it would be appropriate to appoint a european union special representative for north korea.
madam president! to this list of extremely dramatic stories about north korea, we have to add one more element. well, the nuclear blackmail of kim jong il is, in a sense, paralyzing the world. the west, reluctantly perhaps, but often enough, turns a blind eye to the events on the korean peninsula. that's why we have to count the crimes and we have to renew our appeals. the international community has a responsibility to find a type of sanction that will be as little impactful to the north korean people as possible. but we must not be fooled: any sanction that hits the regime will inevitably leave its mark on society. so i think the only effective action now is to work with north korea's closest neighbours, especially in terms of helping refugees, because only by having a detailed knowledge of the situation under communism will we be able to work more effectively in the future for people who have no choice now.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 8 july 2010.
i would like to draw your attention to the case of mrs sakineh mohammadi-ashtiani, who is on death row in iran. according to our information, an appeal of this ruling is currently being considered by the high court. ms. ashtiani was recently sentenced to an additional 99 lashes for allegedly publishing her photographs in european newspapers. i call on the iranian authorities to reverse both sentences and to handle ms ashtiani's case in a transparent and fair manner. i would remind you that the european parliament is opposed to the use of the death penalty in all circumstances.
the final draft agenda drawn up in accordance with rule 137 of the rules of procedure was distributed by the conference of presidents on 2 september. the following changes are proposed: i have received a request from mrs angelilli, mr pittelli, and more than 40 other members to move the debate on the sakineh mohammadi-ashtiani case from thursday afternoon to monday, 6 september.
thank you very much. thank you. i would now like to ask, would anyone like to speak against this motion? there are no motions, so we're voting. who is in favour of mrs. agillilli and mr. pittelli moving the debate from thursday to today? thank you, the motion passed. ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the commission statement on mrs sakineh mohammadi-ashtiani will take place today at the beginning of the agenda, as soon as the agenda has been established. i declare that the deadline for tabling motions for resolutions expires at 7 p.m. tonight and that the deadline for tabling joint motions for resolutions expires at 12 noon tomorrow, tuesday. these are the shortest possible deadlines. the motion for a resolution must be tabled by 7 p.m. today and joint motions for resolutions may be tabled by 12 noon tomorrow, as parliament decides. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon. this is emergency mode, fast-track. ladies and gentlemen, any other suggestions for monday? i can't see. there are no reports. ladies and gentlemen, i have no announcements for tuesday and wednesday either, but in connection with tomorrow's state of the union debate, i would like to dwell briefly on this subject: this is an extremely important debate, which we are having in the european parliament for the first time. we want to hold this debate with a particular emphasis on the role of the european parliament in shaping the future of the union. i think we all want this debate to be conducted in a proper and responsible way and that we, in the framework of the lisbon treaty, take responsibility for many of the things that will happen in the union in the years to come. which is why i think we're all taking this very seriously. as all members are aware, the conference of presidents also discussed this issue last thursday. the very low attendance at important meetings, especially interinstitutional debates, was noted. at the conference of presidents four days ago, we had a very thorough discussion on the state of the union. that was a preliminary debate, and tomorrow at 9 a.m. we are to have a debate in the whole of parliament. the leaders of the political groups stressed the importance of ensuring the widest possible presence at this crucial debate, the first of its kind. as early as july, the heads of the political groups agreed that no meeting would be allowed to take place during this debate, that is to say, there will be no further meetings, no further debates, no further meetings of members of the european parliament between 9.00 and 11.30 tomorrow. on thursday, the group chairmen also decided to introduce a special control of the presence of meps in the chamber during the debate. the presence of members would be controlled by pressing a button at three different times. i will inform the bureau of this decision, as the bureau will be meeting at 6.30 p.m. today, and i will ask the bureau, as the competent authority, to determine the details of the action to be taken on how attendance information is used. aside from the decision that the bureau will take, a decision that we do not yet know, i would like to make a personal appeal to you to be present at this key presentation of the european union's work programme for the coming year. i would remind you that there is a debate tomorrow at 9.00 and i would like to ask all of you to take part in the debate and to be present in the chamber. it is also important for the image of our parliament and for taking responsibility for what will happen in the union in the future. i repeat, no detailed decisions have yet been taken on how to use information on the presence or absence of members in the chamber. this decision can only be taken by the bureau in accordance with the rules of our meetings. >
i've already appealed to the house to be present at this debate, but i'm confident that this heated atmosphere, whatever the bureau's decision, will ensure that we're all in the room and that we achieve that effect.
i told you the board would be discussing this in an hour. i am sure that the bureau will take your comments into account: three comments were made, they were not in accordance with the procedure because there is no such provision in the rules of procedure; i do not wish to prolong this debate. the members of the board are present in the room, and i'm here to take your attention. we all take this very seriously. tonight we're going to think about it, because the conference of presidents is meeting on thursday, so let's think about it in peace. today, the board will make its first preliminary decision. i'd ask you not to apply anymore, because i've already got a dozen applications. we know your objections, and i would suggest that we end the discussion here. we've all heard your reaction, we've all heard your applause, so let's put this discussion aside, let's think about it very seriously. but if we are to end this discussion, we have only one request: that we be present in the chamber for two and a half hours tomorrow, because that is how long the discussion will last. we want to hold it solemnly, that is, to mark our presence, the european parliament's presence in eu decisions, a presence that we have not had before, because the treaty of lisbon gave us such powers. our presence here will determine our own image and the strength of the union. i call for your presence in the courtroom and i propose that we end this discussion.
we can vote on it tomorrow. i suggest we wait for the bureau's decision. mr. chairman, let's wait until tomorrow. we now move on to the first substantive discussion of this meeting.
the next item is the report by mr pablo zalba bidegain, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council implementing the bilateral safeguard clause of the eu-korea free trade agreement (com (2010) 0049 - c7-0025/2010 - 2010/0032 (cod))
member of the commission. − mr president, the regulation implementing the bilateral safeguard clause in the eu-korea free trade agreement is a very important piece of legislation, not only because, once adopted, it will provide the necessary protection for the eu industry if needed, but also because this is the first trade dossier on which the european parliament is involved as co-legislator. therefore, i am pleased to see the commitment and responsibility with which parliament is dealing with this particular file. i appreciate the efforts that have been made by the european parliament in preparing the amendments to the commission proposal to very tight deadlines. i would also like to confirm that the commission is fully committed to finding an agreement that will secure an effective safeguard mechanism which will address the potential concerns of some branches of eu industry. i have been informed that the first informal trialogue meeting concerning the korea safeguard regulation went well and that progress was achieved on a significant number of amendments, as the rapporteur has just mentioned. for instance, an agreement was reached on such important issues as granting eu industry the right to request initiation of a safeguard investigation, and the inclusion of internal rules on duty drawback in the safeguard regulation. i am aware that the most difficult issues have not yet been discussed in detail in the informal trialogue. i hope that the next meetings between parliament, the council and the commission, which i understand will be organised in the near future, will bring substantial progress and allow an agreement to be reached, even on the most difficult issues. i would like to thank the honourable members, and especially the members of the committee on international trade (inta), for treating this file as a priority. i would also like to reiterate the commission’s commitment to rigorous implementation of the whole fta. this implies not only the safeguard mechanism, but also all other aspects of the fta, notably including sustainable development provisions and disciplines relating to non-tariff barriers. finally, let me also use this opportunity to inform you about the latest developments concerning the adoption process of the eu-korea fta by the council. as you might know, the foreign affairs council scheduled for 10 september will, we hope, authorise the signing and provisional application of the fta. once this decision is taken it will be possible to officially sign the agreement and transmit it to parliament for the consent procedure. the date of provisional application will be decided at a later stage by the council. that decision will most likely be adopted once parliament has given its consent to the fta and an agreement on the safeguard regulation has been reached.
thank you, commissioner, for presenting the opinion of the european commission.
ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, there is complete agreement on this agreement, and we can congratulate ourselves that we all want it as soon as possible, that it is very important to us.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. i was referring to the automotive industry, particularly the popular car industry. i would like to draw attention to two aspects: firstly, the value of the car parts imported into korea and sold to us - there are certain thresholds here - and secondly, the way in which customs duties are calculated for the parts assembled within this quota. these two thresholds, the share of parts imported from korea and the customs clearance method, are the concerns raised by european manufacturers of popular cars. i was wondering if you could point out our ability to enforce the relevant regulations.
the european commission's proposal meets the expectations of the european parliament, and above all of our industry, as regards its protection and the respect of fair competition rules in trade. the european parliament, as the representative of the european community, considers it very important to create safeguard clauses that level the playing field for particularly vulnerable sectors of our economy. free trade, participation in the world market, are the engines of development, but only if all parties respect environmental and labour standards and there are no other forms of state support, and thus trade is on a fully competitive basis.
i congratulate you, mr bové. you did a good job. this report is a fine development of the ideas that the european parliament had already expressed in 2008 in a written declaration adopted at that time. i had the honor of being one of the authors. and for the first time, we took a strong stand against the abuse of the monopoly position of the big retailers over farmers and suppliers. this document expands on those ideas. ladies and gentlemen, today in poland, there is a celebration of the end of the harvest, called the dożynki, during which bread from the new harvest is distributed. and in this bread that's being shared, there's less and less of the farmer's income, less than 10 percent, and not so long ago, it was 25 percent. it's like that in poland, it's like that all over europe. farmers are the weakest link in the market. but i think that those who talk about the need to take the market more seriously are forgetting that the market cannot solve everything when it comes to security, whether it is energy security or, as in this case, food security. besides, it's good if the market is free, but bad if it's wild. and this market, which is agricultural production, is very often wild: strong trade networks, big companies dictate the terms to weaker farmers, even those who are organized, but always weaker. and that has to change. i firmly believe that this report will not remain a piece of paper this time, but will be followed by action at eu level. we have one single market in the european union, and eu rules should regulate its rules.
mr. chairman, please! the european commission's communication states that action is needed to tackle unfair practices between operators throughout the food supply chain. however, the commission's proposals for measures to counter these practices are limited to the exchange of good practice, information campaigns and the preparation of voluntary standard contracts. this approach will do little or nothing to change and will not eliminate the pathology and stop the continuing trend of decreasing incomes of european farmers. we must not forget that the common agricultural policy is also about ensuring fair wages for farmers and guaranteeing reasonable, stable and transparent prices for food of the highest quality for consumers. that is the purpose of the proposals in the report and i will support them fully.
madam president! the voices of condemnation of what is happening in iran are incredibly important because they save people's lives, but it's also a signal that reaches the opposition and gives them the strength to act. we have to defend our individual units. i think we should have a special debate about what we can do to be more effective. we've been announcing resolutions, we've been having debates, mrs. ashton has been taking action, but our voices have been unanswered. if we want to be seen in the world not just as defenders of certain values, if we want to be seen as human rights not being violated, but as effective in what we say, not just noble, we need to have a separate debate about what kind of action we need to take immediately and how we can be effective.
while we were on holiday, another human rights violation took place in our eastern partner, russia. we've had kidnappings in ingushetia, dagestan, and repeatedly denied access to demonstrations. that's what happened on july 31st, august 30th, august 31st. he was arrested in connection with the allegedly "criminal activities" of the so-called "government of the donetsk people's republic". on august 25, during a u2 concert in moscow, the amnesty international booth was confiscated and destroyed. i think that these sorrowful events should always be part of the dialogue between all the eu institutions and our eastern partners.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what are you doing? the brussels 1 regulation lays down detailed rules governing the jurisdiction of courts in civil and commercial matters and the recognition and enforcement of judgments from other member states. it was rightly considered a great success. it has facilitated the free flow of judgments, increased legal certainty and avoided parallel proceedings, although it has been criticised in some quarters for causing adverse or anti-commercial effects. the quality of the court's case-law is also perceived as uneven. the european parliament was merely consulted when the brussels 1 regulation was adopted. parliament will now deal with all future proposals to amend this regulation in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure. it is therefore good that we are already involved in the commission's green paper phase. the issues raised in the green paper include the possible abolition of the exequatur procedure, the functioning of the regulation in the wider international order, the functioning of the choice of court clauses, the functioning of the regulation in industrial and intellectual property disputes, and the possible reform of the rules on lis pendens. i tried to make a balanced, forward-looking report. i was moved by the reaction to two working papers in which i supported the idea of abolishing the exequatur procedure, which should bring concrete benefits to the citizens of the european union. at the same time, i am convinced that this step must be compensated by a special procedure, combined with appropriate safeguards for debtors. irrespective of the abolition of the exequatur procedure, i am convinced that authentic instruments should not be directly enforceable in the executing state without being verified by the competent judicial authorities of that state, and that the existing principle that the enforceability clause may be refused or modified only if the judgment is contrary to the public policy of the executing state should be changed. in certain circumstances, an authentic instrument may be incompatible with previous judgments of the courts of the state of enforcement. i maintain my objection to the removal of the arbitration exemption from the scope of the regulation. however, i believe that the relationship between arbitration and judicial proceedings should be given much more thought and that, pending a full review and thorough consultation, the concept of primary jurisdiction should not be pursued in judicial proceedings in support of arbitration. in the future, i find the idea of giving full retroactivity to the provisions of the regulation attractive. it's too soon for that now. i urge that there be extensive consultation and political debate before any action is taken on this matter beyond the suggestions made in this draft report. i also support the idea of resuming negotiations on a convention on international judgments at the hague conference. the report deals with very complex problems in the field of private international law. although defamation issues are not addressed in the european commission's green paper, the forum shopping problem of choosing the most favourable jurisdiction in order to obtain the highest possible damages in defamation cases does exist. freedom of speech and the media must therefore be balanced against the rights of the individual who has been defamed or whose right to privacy has been violated. i am therefore opposed to the exclusion of defamation from the general rules of the brussels 1 regulation. of course, i wonder whether an instrument such as brussels 1 is appropriate for regulating the rules of private international law. perhaps another legal instrument is needed to regulate the conflict between media freedom and fundamental rights of the individual. the brussels 1 regulation was not designed to refer to the qualitative assessment of the courts of the member states. the european court of justice in the lugano opinion clearly stated that the brussels 1 legal instrument is based on mutual trust. i would like to thank my colleagues on the legal affairs committee, and in particular mrs wallis and mrs regner.
we have repeatedly spoken in our reports about the difficult situation of women in the european union and we have tried to improve their situation by giving them equal opportunities. how much more difficult it is for women who are ethnic minorities, and who are also part of our society. we should therefore also help them to access the labour market, education and training. we should protect them from social exclusion and multiple discrimination, and strive to involve them in political and social activities in all their dimensions. it's the only way to avoid stereotypes, stigma, ethnic segregation, and just plain violence and aggression. such people should be given opportunities and opportunities so that differences in culture and tradition do not hinder their working together but rather add value. the events of the past few days show that instead of facing the difficulties that come with being a multicultural society, some people try to get rid of them, only to cause more outrage and social disapproval.
the ageing of the population is a phenomenon that requires our particular attention. among the problems we face, the problem of poverty, although multifaceted, is largely due to high unemployment. a significant decline in employment is already being recorded in the over-50 age group and is particularly affecting women. because of their age, they do not feel attractive to employers. some of them choose to retire early, and their low pensions sometimes leave them in extreme poverty. in order to increase employment in this age group, legal solutions should be applied at governmental level in each country. entrepreneurs need incentives to hire people over 50. this may take the form of tax exemptions, special arrangements within the healthcare system and a range of free training to adapt such workers to the needs of employers. such ideas will not only improve the living standards of these people, but also bring tangible benefits to national budgets.
in writing. it is good that the ep report focuses on the situation of women over 50 in the context of the demographic changes taking place in europe. previous reports have indicated a slow improvement in the situation of women in the labour market and in public life. the situation of women in this group may change markedly in the coming years, especially in countries with poor or inadequate social and health care systems. in these countries, the aging of the population will place a special burden on women to care for aging parents and relatives. women are already burdened with such responsibilities today, and they will be especially burdened in the future. in many respects, they will replace and supplement inefficient institutions. and we need to prepare today for the demographic bomb, which this time will be the huge number of elderly and disabled people. the adaptation of institutions will be long and difficult, and we need to think now about how to help families in an ageing society. the european commission and parliament must start monitoring today how member states' institutions are adapting to the needs of an ageing population. the report rightly emphasises the need to facilitate access to public and private services, in particular healthcare. it is important that these records are reflected in everyday life and not just a dead letter in eu documents.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the report of the committee on women's rights and equality on the role of women in an ageing society rightly noted that women of retirement age are more likely to live in poverty. the reason for this phenomenon is very often the lower accumulation of pension benefits, which is a consequence of lower wages for women and periodic reductions in wages, for example during childcare. the project lists a number of elements that could improve the quality of life of women over 50 - including taking on additional part-time work. but the first thing to consider is how to ensure that women approaching retirement age do not have to fear losing their jobs and thus their financial resources. the european union should place particular emphasis on equal pay for men and women. according to the charter of fundamental rights and the lisbon treaty, discrimination on grounds of sex is prohibited in the workplace. therefore, there must be points in the report that would ensure that women receive the same pay as men. in addition, it is important that public opinion highlights all issues related to discrimination against women in the workplace.
- i'm calling the meeting. the president of the european commission will make a state of the union address. as you may recall, yesterday we discussed the problem of attendance at the most important plenary debates in parliament. the bureau of parliament considered this problem yesterday and shares the view of the conference of presidents on the need to increase attendance at key debates. at the same time, we felt that more time was needed and that we should consider ways of increasing attendance at the most important debates. after the evening's consultations with the political group chairmen, i would like to inform you that the attendance procedure will not be applied this time. at the same time, i would like to welcome you to a very special debate which, we deeply believe, is of great importance for the future of the european union. i'm glad the turnout is high enough to give this debate the proper frame. this is the first time we've ever debated the state of the union. it is a step towards building a parliamentary europe. the lisbon treaty has given us special powers, but more powers means more responsibilities. we have a responsibility to the 500 million citizens who elected us. at the annual sessions, we will discuss such issues as the current state of play, the state of the union, political, economic and social priorities and ways of acting, and decision-making to meet citizens' expectations. this is part of the democratic control of the executive body of the european union, the european commission. these reports shall be submitted to us by the president of the commission. we welcome mr barroso to the house. we also welcome all the commissioners who have come with the president and are with us in the chamber. i would like to stress once again that the european parliament has already done a great deal to get closer to the citizens and to present the possibilities of democratic control, of supervision of the executive. in july, president barroso presented his exposé, and in september last year, before we decided to elect him as president, he spoke to all the political groups. we also conducted interviews with all the commissioners in the european parliament's committees. we have concluded a new framework agreement between the commission and the european parliament which also ensures the operation of the community method, which we here in the european parliament firmly believe in. finally, in the next few weeks, the european commission's legislative programme for 2011 will be presented. we are therefore carrying out the tasks entrusted to us by the citizens of europe. mr. chairman, please! we live in challenging times. we look to the european commission to carry out its tasks and to play its role as guardian of the treaties, the source of the union's initiatives and legislative projects. we are interested in your and the commission's views on the state of the union, the scope for action and the many issues that remain to be resolved in the european union.
president of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, it is a great privilege to deliver the first state of the union address before this house. from now on, the state of the union address will be the occasion when we will chart our work for the next 12 months. many of the decisions we will take in the next year will have long-term implications. they will define the kind of europe we want. they will define a europe of opportunity where those that aspire are elevated and those in need are not neglected. a europe that is open to the world and open to its people. a europe that delivers economic, social and territorial cohesion. over the last year, the economic and financial crisis has caused our union to face one of its greatest challenges ever. our interdependence was highlighted and our solidarity was tested as never before. as i look back at how we have reacted, i believe that we have withstood the test. we have provided many of the answers needed – on financial assistance to member states facing exceptional circumstances, on economic governance, on financial regulation and on growth and jobs. we have been able to build a base camp from which to modernise our economies. europe has shown that it will stand up and be counted. those who predicted the demise of the european union were proved wrong. the european institutions and the member states have demonstrated leadership. my message to each and every european is that you can trust the european union to do what it takes to secure your future. the economic outlook in the european union today is better than it was a year ago, not least as a result of our determined action. the recovery is gathering pace, albeit unevenly within the union. growth this year will be higher than initially forecast. the unemployment rate, whilst still much too high, has stopped increasing. clearly, uncertainties and risks remain, not least outside the european union. we should be under no illusions. our work is far from finished. there is no room for complacency. the unemployment problem is an extremely serious one. budgetary expansion played its role to counter the decline in economic activity. but it is now time to exit. without structural reforms, we will not create sustainable growth. we must use the next 12 months to accelerate our reform agenda. now is the time to modernise our social market economy so that it can compete globally and respond to the challenge of demography. now is the time to make the right investments for our future. this is europe's moment of truth. europe must show that it is more than 27 different national solutions. we either swim together or sink separately. we will only succeed if, whether acting nationally, regionally or locally, we think european. today, i will set out what i see as the priorities for our work together over the coming year. i cannot cover here every issue of european policy or initiative we will take. through president buzek, i will send you a more complete programme document. essentially, i see five major challenges for the union over the next year: dealing with the economic crisis and governance; restoring growth for jobs by accelerating the europe 2020 reform agenda; building an area of freedom, justice and security; launching negotiations for a modern eu budget; and pulling our weight on the global stage. let me start with the economic crisis and governance. earlier this year, we acted decisively when euro area members and the euro itself needed our help. we have learned hard lessons. now we are making important progress on economic governance. the commission put its ideas on the table in may and in june. they have been well received by this parliament and in the task force chaired by the president of the european council. they are the basis around which a consensus is being developed. we will present the most urgent legislative proposals on 29 september so as not to lose momentum. unsustainable budgets make us vulnerable. debt and deficit lead to boom and bust and they unravel the social safety net. money that is spent on servicing debt is money that cannot be spent on the social good nor to prepare ourselves for the costs of an ageing population. a debt generation makes an unsustainable nation. our proposals will strengthen the stability and growth pact through increased surveillance and enforcement. we need to tackle severe macro-economic imbalances, especially in the euro area. that is why we made proposals early on to detect asset bubbles, lack of competitiveness and other sources of imbalances. i now see a willingness on the part of governments to accept stronger monitoring, backed up by incentives for compliance and earlier sanctions. the commission will strengthen its role as an independent referee and enforcer of the new rules. we will match monetary union with true economic union. if implemented as we propose, these reforms will also guarantee the long-term stability of the euro. it is key to our economic success. for the economy to grow, we also need a strong and sound financial sector –a sector that serves the real economy and that prides itself on proper regulation and proper supervision. we took action to increase bank transparency. today the situation is better than it was a year ago. with the publication of the stress test results, banks should now be able to lend to each other so that credit can flow to europe's citizens and companies. we have proposed protecting people's savings up to eur 100 000. we will propose to ban abusive naked short selling. we will tackle credit default swaps. the days of betting on someone else's house burning down are over. we continue to insist that banks, not taxpayers, must pay up front to cover the costs of their own risks of failure. we are legislating to outlaw bonuses for quick wins today that become big losses tomorrow. as part of this approach, i am also defending taxes on financial activities and we will come forward with proposals this autumn. the political deal on the financial supervision package just concluded is very good news. the commission proposals, based on the de larosière report, will give us an effective european supervision system. i want to thank parliament for the constructive role it has played and i hope it will give its final agreement this month. we will also go further on regulation. initiatives on derivatives, further measures on credit rating agencies and a framework for bank resolution and crisis management will soon be before you. our goal is to have a reformed financial sector in place by the end of 2011. sound government finances and responsible financial markets give us the confidence and economic strength for sustainable growth. we need to move beyond the debate between fiscal consolidation and growth. we can have both. honourable members, sound public finances are a means to an end: growth for jobs. our goal is growth – sustainable and inclusive growth. this is our overarching priority. this is where we need to invest. europe 2020 starts now. we must frontload and accelerate the most growth-promoting reforms of our agenda. this could raise growth levels by over a third by 2020. this means concentrating on three priorities: getting more people into jobs, boosting our companies' competitiveness and deepening the single market. let me start with people and jobs. over 6.3 million people have lost their jobs since 2008. each one of them should have the chance to get back into employment. europe's employment rates are at 69% on average for those aged between 20 and 64. we have agreed that these should rise to 75% by 2020, bringing in particular more women and older workers into the workforce. most of the competences for employment policy remain with member states. we know that. but we will not stand on the sidelines. i want a european union that helps its people to seize new opportunities and that is social and inclusive. this is the europe we will build if member states, the european institutions and the social partners move ahead on our common reform agenda. it should be centred on skills and jobs and investment in lifelong learning. it should focus on unlocking the growth potential of the single market, to build a stronger single market for jobs. the opportunities exist. we have very high levels of unemployment, but europe now has four million job vacancies. later this year the commission will propose a 'european vacancy monitor' which will show people where the jobs are in europe and which skills are needed. we will also put forward plans for a european skills passport. we must also tackle problems of poverty and exclusion. we must make sure that the most vulnerable are not left behind. this is the focus of our 'platform against poverty'. it will bring together european action for vulnerable groups such as children and old people. as more and more people travel, study or work abroad, we will also strengthen citizens' rights as they move across borders. the commission will address persistent obstacles as early as this autumn. growth must be based on our companies' competitiveness. we should continue to make life easier for our small and medium-sized enterprises. they provide two out of every three private-sector jobs. among their main concerns are innovation and red tape. we are working on both. just before the summer the commission announced the biggest ever package from the seventh research framework programme, worth eur 6.4 billion. this money will go to smes as well as to scientists. investing in innovation also means promoting world-class universities in europe. i want to see them attracting the brightest and the best, from europe and the rest of the world. we will take an initiative on the modernisation of european universities. i want to see a europe that is strong in science, education and culture. we need to improve europe's innovation performance not only in universities but along the whole chain, from research to retail, notably through innovation partnerships. we need an innovation union. next month, the commission will set out how to achieve this. another key test will be whether member states are ready to make a breakthrough on a patent valid across the whole european union. our innovators often pay ten times the price faced by their competitors in the united states or in japan. our proposal is on the table. it would substantially reduce the cost and double the coverage. after decades of discussion, it is time to decide. we will also act further on red tape. smes are being strangled in regulatory knots. 71% of ceos say that the biggest barrier to their success is bureaucracy. the commission has put proposals on the table to generate annual savings of eur 38 billion for european companies. stimulating innovation, cutting red tape and developing a highly-skilled workforce: these are ways to ensure that european manufacturing continues to be world class. we want a strong, but modern, industrial base in europe. a thriving industrial base in europe is of paramount importance for our future. next month, the commission will present a new industrial policy for the globalisation era. we have the people and we have the companies. what they both need is an open and modern single market. the internal market is europe's greatest asset, and we are not using it enough. we urgently need to deepen it. only 8% of europe's 20 million smes engage in cross-border trade, still fewer in investment. even with the internet, over a third of consumers lack the confidence to make cross-border purchases. at my request, mario monti presented an excellent report and has identified 150 missing links and bottlenecks in the internal market. next month we will set out how to deepen the single market in a comprehensive and ambitious single market act. energy is a key driver for growth and a central priority for action. we need to complete the internal market for energy, build and interconnect energy grids, and ensure energy security and solidarity. we need to do for energy what we have done for mobile phones: give real choice for consumers in one european marketplace. this will give us a real energy community in europe. we need to make frontiers irrelevant for pipelines or power cables, to have the infrastructure for solar and wind energy, and to ensure that across the whole of europe we have a common standard so that charging electric car batteries becomes as natural as filling up the tank. over the next year, we will bring forward an energy action plan, an infrastructure package and an energy efficiency action plan to put this vision in place. i myself will travel to the caspian region later this year to promote the southern corridor as a means of enhancing our security of supply. to build a resource-efficient europe, we need to look beyond energy. in the 20th century the world enjoyed phenomenal resource-intensive growth. in the 20th century we saw, globally, a four-fold growth in population, accompanied by a 40-fold growth in economic output. but in the same period we also increased our use of fossil fuels 16 times, our fishing catches 35 times and our water use 9 times. our carbon emissions increased 17 times. that means we have to deliver on our climate and energy package, as a core driver for change. this means integrating the different strands of policy on climate change, energy, transport and environment into a coherent approach on resource efficiency and a low carbon future. a forward-looking agricultural sector will play a major role in european measures to address some of the biggest challenges ahead, such as global food security, biodiversity loss and the sustainable management of natural resources. so will our maritime policy. all of this will not only strengthen our economy tomorrow, but will provide new openings today. jobs in the eco-industry have been increasing by 7% a year since 2000. i want to see three million 'green jobs' by 2020 – three million green collar workers that complement our blue and white collar workers. we need sustainable growth, and we also need smart growth. half of european productivity growth over the last 15 years was driven by information and communication technologies. this trend is set to intensify. our european digital agenda will deliver a single digital market worth 4% of eu gdp by 2020. mr president, everything we do is for the citizens of europe. a fundamental dimension of our european project is building an area of freedom, security and justice. we are working hard to implement the stockholm action plan. we will make a real push on asylum and migration. legal migrants will find europe a place where human values are respected and enforced. at the same time, we will crack down on the exploitation of illegal immigrants within europe and at our borders. the commission will make new proposals on policing our external borders. we will bring forward an internal security strategy to tackle threats of organised crime and terrorism. europeans will find that their fundamental rights and obligations exist wherever they go. everyone in europe must respect the law and governments must respect human rights, including those of minorities. racism and xenophobia have no place in europe. (applause) on such sensitive issues, and when a problem arises, we must all act with responsibility. i make a strong appeal not to re-awaken the ghosts of europe's past. an area of freedom, liberty and security will create a place where europeans can prosper. honourable members, another challenge for next year is sorting out the future budget of the european union. next month we will put forward the commission's first ideas for the budget review. it will launch an open debate without taboos to prepare our legislative proposals that will be presented in the second quarter of next year. we need to spend our money where we get most value for it. we should invest it where it leverages growth and delivers our european agenda. the quality of spending should be the yardstick for us all. it is important to discuss not only the quantity, but also the quality, of the spending and investment. i believe that europe offers real added value. that is why i will be pushing for an ambitious post-2013 budget for europe. i believe we should pool our means to back our policy priorities. the issue is not about spending more or less, but spending more intelligently by looking at european and national budgets together. the eu budget is not for brussels. it is for the people that you represent – for the unemployed workers being retrained by the social fund, for the students that participate in the erasmus programme, and for the regions that benefit from the cohesion fund. energy interconnections, research, and development aid are obvious examples where a euro spent at european level gets you more than a euro spent at national level. as you know, some member states are seeing this logic even in areas of core national competence, like defence. they recognise that huge savings could be made if they pooled some of their means and activities. pooling money at european level allows member states to cut their costs, avoid overlaps and get a better return on their investment. that is why we should also explore new sources of financing for major european infrastructure projects. for instance, i will propose the establishment of european union project bonds, together with the european investment bank. (applause) we will also further develop public-private partnerships. as this parliament has made clear, we must also address the issue of own resources. the present system is stretched to its limits – propped up by a byzantine set of corrections. our citizens deserve a fairer and more efficient and more transparent system. some will not agree with all the ideas we will raise. indeed, i find it extraordinary that some are already rejecting them, without even knowing what they will be. (applause)i know that one issue of interest to this parliament is the duration of the next budget. various options exist. i would like to look at a 10-year framework, with a mid-term review of the financial dimension after five years. let us call it a 'five plus five' option. this will give us longer-term planning and a clearer link with the mandates of both our institutions. of course, part of a credible european budget is the rigorous pursuit of savings. i am looking at the administrative costs within the commission and other community bodies like agencies. we need to eliminate all pockets of inefficiency. we will build on recommendations from the court of auditors to improve financial management. honourable members, the final challenge i want to address today is how we pull our weight on the global stage. when we deal with our everyday problems, we sometimes lose perspective and forget europe's achievements: a peaceful and successful transition to a european union that has doubled in size and is negotiating further accessions; a sound currency – the euro – that is a major world currency; and a strong partnership with our neighbourhood that strengthens us all. if we act decisively we have nothing to fear from the 21st century. as the strategic partnerships of the 21st century emerge, europe should seize the chance to define its future. i am impatient to see the union play a role in global affairs that matches its economic weight. our partners are watching and are expecting us to engage as europe, not just as 27 individual countries. if we do not act together, europe will not be a force in the world and they will move on without us – without the european union but also without its member states. this is why, in my political guidelines, i called for europe to be a global player and a global leader – a key task and test for our generation. together with high representative and vice-president ashton, i will present our vision of how we can maximise europe's role in the world. with the european external action service, we have the means to match our aspirations. in our globalised world, the relationships we build with strategic partners determine our prosperity. to be effective on the international stage, we need the weight of the european union. size matters, now more than ever. a good example is the fight against climate change. copenhagen showed that, while others did not match our ambition, we did not help ourselves by not speaking with one voice. negotiations may have stalled but climate change has not. i want us to intensify our engagement with international partners to turn their press releases into credible commitments to cut emissions and push forward with fast-start funding. the next two months will see crucial summits with strategic partners. the more we are able to establish a common agenda, with a clearly defined european interest, the more we will achieve. for example, i see huge potential in developing a transatlantic agenda for growth and jobs. where we are already punching our weight is the g20, the forum where the key economic global players address common challenges. when president van rompuy and i go to seoul in november, representing the european union, we want to see concrete results – further progress in global economic coordination, more stable and responsible financial markets and agreement on reform of international financial institutions, more effective global financial safety nets, and more progress on a g20 development agenda. we will continue to show leadership in this forum and work closely with the french g8/g20 presidency next year. we also want to see support for the doha round. trade boosts growth and prosperity. we will also pursue bilateral and regional free trade agreements. in october, the commission will present a renewed trade policy to drive new benefits for europe. being open to the world also means standing side by side with developing countries, especially with africa. when i go to the millennium development goals high-level event in new york in two weeks' time, i intend to commit – with your support and on behalf of the european union – an extra eur 1 billion to the millennium development goals. being a global player also means standing up for our values. human rights are not negotiable. i am shocked at how the rights of women are being infringed in many countries. i am appalled when i hear that sakineh mohammadi ashtiani has been sentenced to death by stoning. this is barbaric beyond words. (applause) in europe we condemn such acts, which have no justification under any moral or religious code. our values also mean that we must come to the aid of those facing a crisis situation, anywhere around the world. our humanitarian aid to pakistan is the latest example of europe's solidarity in action. it is a striking example of the need to present the different contributions of the commission and the member states as a truly european aid package. the member states have the helicopters and the civil protection teams. we now need to pool them to create a real european crisis response capacity. this is what the commission will propose in october. i urge the member states to show they are serious about the union punching its weight in this area. we are also making progress on a common foreign policy, but let us be under no illusions. we will not have the weight we need in the world without a common defence policy. i believe now is the moment to address this challenge. (applause)honourable members, we are still bedding down the new institutional set-up of europe created by the lisbon treaty. what really matters is what the institutions deliver to the people. what matters is the difference europe makes in their daily lives. the secret of europe's success is its unique community model. more than ever, the commission must drive the political agenda with its vision and proposals. i have called for a special relationship between the commission and parliament, the two community institutions par excellence. i am intensifying my political cooperation with you. europe is not only brussels or strasbourg. it is also our regions. it is the cities, towns and villages you come from. when you walk round your constituencies, you can point to the european projects that are so important for their prosperity. at the end of the day, we are all in the same boat – the european institutions, member states and regions. the union will not achieve its objectives in europe without the member states and the member states will not achieve their objectives in the world without the european union. the citizens of europe expect us to take the action needed to get out of this crisis. we must show them that the common efforts we are making today will lead to new jobs, new investments, and a europe fit for the future. i am confident that europe has what it takes. we will get the results we are reaching for. one thing is certain – it is not through pessimism and constantly promoting defeat that we will win this battle; it is with confidence and with a strong common will. today, i have outlined how i see the european union doing that. i have committed myself to delivering the proposals to build our economic union. i have made the case to fast-track our reform agenda. i have set out how to modernise our social market economy to deliver growth and jobs in a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy through our europe 2020 flagship initiatives. i have set out how to achieve a common energy policy in europe. i have defended the need for an area of freedom, security and justice, where europeans will find that their fundamental rights and obligations exist wherever they go. i have made clear that the commission will strive for an ambitious budget. i have proposed developing eu project bonds to finance major european projects. i have announced our reinforced commitment to the millennium development goals. i have made the case clear as to why we need a common crisis response capacity, a common foreign policy and a common defence policy. i have urged european leaders to act together if they want europe to be a global player and defend the european interest. it is indeed a transformational, ambitious and challenging agenda. for europe to succeed, the commission needs your support for a stronger, fairer europe for the benefit of our citizens. (applause)
president barroso, thank you for your presentation on the state of the union.
thank you, mr. president schulz, for your speech. now, on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe, the chairman, guy verhofstadt, will speak.
on behalf of the ecr group. i will start with good news for president barroso, news that could even be congratulated. his performance tonight was priced higher than tickets to sting's next concert in prague, which don't even cost 150 euros. but i'll start with an anecdote. mr. president, we have a popular anecdote in poland: a man climbs a tree and saws the branch he is sitting on. a tourist comes along and says, "man, if you saw that branch, you'd fall". the tourist goes on, the branch falls off. a man falls off a tree, gets up, looks at the tourist, "is he a prophet or something?" ladies and gentlemen, the european conservatives, before this group was formed, were the kind of tourists who would say to the european bureaucracy sitting on a branch: you are sawing the branch you are sitting on. and i think what i'm discovering in your speech today is the chance that this process of cutting branches will end. you have put forward a number of ideas which are certainly worth supporting, and i think they are designed to satisfy every group in this parliament. but we cannot but agree with president schulz that this was a project for the future and that we have not heard, and i regret that to you, an analysis of the present situation in the union. why does the union work in this way and not in another way, why does the union not please or meet the expectations of so many citizens? and here's where it gets really important. it is very good that you have focused on economic growth and the need for this growth in europe, in new jobs. i certainly share the view that one of the biggest problems facing the european economy today is unemployment. but let's be honest here. it is not possible to be rightly concerned about the unemployment and the loss of jobs in europe and at the same time propose economic solutions which naturally lead to the export of jobs from europe to other continents. you can't separate that. we cannot say that we want to increase employment in europe and at the same time impose new burdens and new bureaucratic constraints on european companies and economies. this has to stop. i see in your speech, mr president, a thought in the right direction. you said that europe must speak with one voice in the world. we say this a lot here, but it is obvious to the naked eye that different governments in europe have very different approaches to fundamental issues in the field of foreign policy. and that's a fact that can't be ignored. so how can europe speak with one voice on the world stage if different european governments speak with different voices? ladies and gentlemen, let's not kid ourselves, it's going to happen. you may, gentlemen, in this room, swear by reality by saying that these 27 lines are not there, but they are. they are elected by the citizens of the european union and we defend the rights of these governments to represent their citizens in the arena of the union. we want a balance between the community and the national in europe and that is why we will defend the idea of the nation state, which is of course part of the european community. but speaking of which, i want to say that i agree with every voice that's been heard in this room. i'm saying this from the bottom of my heart. we cannot accept a situation in which some government in europe, for internal purposes, tries to set fire to the powder keg that nationalism and chauvinism were in europe. this cannot be allowed, but it is happening in many european countries. this year we have already had examples of countries bordering poland where minority issues have been tried to exploit for political purposes. one of the great achievements of the european union, which i, not being a big enthusiast, but looking at it in a positive way, is that europe has been a space of democracy, tolerance and non-war for 60 years. it's something you have to maintain. i would also say that we need to be more open and credible in what we deliver to the citizens of the european union. the biggest problem in our community is that at the level of declarations, we say something different, and at the level of facts and what reaches the citizen, we do something completely different. i believe in europe and we, the european conservatives, believe in this community. but we believe in it in its diversity. we don't believe in a new united state that's supposed to merge into one nation. this bill is not going to pass. the citizens of europe are well aware that it is possible to be a good pole, a good european, a good german, and to live together, treating each other with respect and building a common future. mr. president, i hope you can do it. but the way to fix things is not to repeat the same mistakes. i want to make it clear to you that in my view europe cannot try to solve the problems we face by repeating the mistakes of the past. today, in your speech, i see the opportunity for a europe of greater economic freedom, a europe of closer integration, in this sense, of the common market. i am very pleased that the idea of a single market act has come from this parliament, from the internal market committee. it was mr monti's report, drawn up by a committee chaired by my colleague michel herber, and we are proud of it. that's the kind of depth we want. we want a common market and greater economic freedom.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. - mr president, i have listened to you all very attentively and with great interest. i tried to see what the fundamental issues were, in essence. in essence, i think that at least the majority of this parliament clearly wants more europe, wants the community method, wants more ambition. the commission's proposals have not been the subject of specific criticism. some said they preferred a speech that analyzed the situation. i, rather than commenting on the past and the present, prefer to build the future. i think the most important thing is not to comment - i leave that to the commentators, whom i respect very much - but i think our role - the role of the commission - is to make proposals. and for me the state of the union address is also about where we want to take the union with our joint effort. and that is what i have presented to you today, with concrete, ambitious proposals. but i don't want to avoid any questions. it is true that the union is at a pivotal moment. it is true that we have a new treaty. and it is true that some at national level take a purely intergovernmental interpretation of these institutions. we have already clearly defined our vision, and - i said it in my speech - i am in favour of the method, the spirit of the community. but the best way to do this is not to engage in endless discussions about institutions and even less in institutional guerrilla warfare, which i do not want and will not take part in. the best way is for the commission to play its role of initiative by presenting substantial, high-quality, bold proposals and for you - as you have done - to work with us in this spirit. and that's where we made proposals. and that is where, i believe, we can really test our commitment to a stronger europe. some presented the results of surveys on support or confidence in the european institutions. it is true that there are difficulties, serious difficulties, which need to be dealt with. but if you had done a more thorough analysis, you would have seen that while trust in the european institutions is sometimes a problem, there is sometimes a much bigger problem, that of trust in national politicians, in national governments, and the truth is that nobody has mentioned it. we are in an extremely difficult economic and social situation and everyone must take responsibility. it is well known that in difficult economic times the tendency of public opinion is to distrust political institutions, whether at national or european level. i believe that the best way to respond to these concerns is with results, with proposals. and i think that we agree on the substance - at least the pro-european majority in the european parliament. we are in favour of deepening financial regulation. we have made it clear that we will not relinquish the commission's right of initiative. we want banks, financial institutions, to also help solve the problem they helped create. and that is why we are in favour of taxing financial activities. we want proposals for growth in europe. that is the way we are going to work. some of you have mentioned a problem which will be discussed this afternoon in parliament: the roma question. i shall not go into this now, since it will be discussed this afternoon. but let me say that the commission has been interested in this problem for a long time. earlier this year we even co-organised a ministerial meeting on the roma issue. i believe that at that ministerial meeting there were only two or three ministers from all of europe. vice-president reding represented the commission. we have important programmes to support the support and integration of roma. we are in constructive and serious dialogue with all governments in europe, whether governments of the countries of origin of the roma or governments of countries where there is now a significant roma presence. i think i can ask you very sincerely not to make political politics of this question. this is a very sensitive, very serious matter. we europeans are not doing ourselves any favors if we polarize the discussion of such a sensitive issue. we have said - i have said it very clearly - that the commission and the european union are opposed to all forms of discrimination. this is completely unacceptable. but when it comes to answering the questions that arise in some of our countries, it must also be said that all our citizens have rights and obligations. and the balance between freedom, including freedom of movement, and security must always be stressed. if we do not respect this balance, then we run the grave risk of this issue being exploited by extremist forces which can exploit in a populist way the feeling of insecurity which exists in many of our societies. so let us give a serious, responsible answer, always avoiding political manipulation of an extremely serious and extremely sensitive issue. the commission will have that position of responsibility. that is why i believe that we have a huge job ahead of us. if the criticism that has been levelled at me is that i am seeking consensus among the main european political forces, then that is a criticism that i accept gladly. the commission must represent the general european interest and we must try to represent that same general interest by seeking to get input from the various pro-european political forces. that's what we do. we talked about the budget. i listened to your speeches. it seems to me that most of you want an ambitious budget for europe. but, ladies and gentlemen, let us be extremely clear here too: the commission is going to present an ambitious budget, but we must not simply hold this debate here in the european parliament, we must win over european public opinion. i therefore ask for your help and support so that we can explain in our countries, to the political forces that form the governments in our capitals, why indeed - as joseph daul rightly said - very often the euros spent at european level constitute an economy compared to the euros that could be multiplied at national level. this is a battle we must win with public opinion, through democratic debate in our countries. and that is why i am asking for your support so that this debate can take place with the political forces you represent, not just in strasbourg or brussels, but also in the capitals because we must reach a consensus between parliament and the council. the various institutions must reach an agreement. the commission will be in attendance. the commission will put forward ambitious proposals, but always in a spirit of genuine partnership for a stronger europe, a europe of cooperation and not a europe of division.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. if you took my statement as a criticism of you, because you try to take into account the needs of each group, i can assure you that it is not a criticism. i appreciate your diplomatic skills in this area, but i think you have an even greater difficulty in balancing between different member states. it's probably going to take more effort on your part than trying to please any political group. since you have used the phrase 'pro-european majority' and 'anti-european minority', i would ask all my colleagues not to 'combine' those who do not like europe as a project and do not want the european union (i do not agree with these people) with those who say that we want to change something in europe, that we are interested in this project, in the name of a democratic and fair debate. we disagree with many of the issues that have a majority in this house, but we sit in this parliament to make europe better, not worse, and we are always ready to debate this. i appreciate your openness to this debate, mr president. as regards the roma issue which has been raised here, i do not often agree with president schultz, but i do agree with him on this point. i think that if the problem is criminal, then every country uses all the possibilities, citizens pay taxes to fight the state against criminals. it's obvious. but we must avoid attributing any particular inclination to crime to any ethnic group, because that is, in my view, very dangerous and is close to racist prejudice. these are matters that need to be dealt with delicately, not politicized, by either side. we need to be constructive and solve the problem.
in writing. we're down to the first-ever state of the union debate. there is no doubt that it was much needed and it is to be hoped that this initiative will be continued in the years to come. my reservations, however, concern the very course and content of the debate. first, i think that president barroso has made very little reference to the current state of the union. he talked a lot about the challenges ahead, and i think he was too general. there was no reference, inter alia, to the treaty of lisbon and its impact on the functioning of the union and its institutions. the president's speech also failed to provide a thorough analysis of the current difficult economic situation in europe, which is the result, among other things, of the euro area countries' failure to comply with the stability and growth pact. it should also be noted that the european commission has not effectively monitored compliance with this. this is sobering in the light of the fact that president barroso also served in the previous term, as did commissioner almunia, then responsible for economic and monetary affairs and now commissioner for competition. could the commission, with a civil service staff of hundreds of people, have failed to notice irregularities in greece, for example? this seems doubtful, given the lack of response also to the largest member states who are in flagrant breach of the pact recommendations and convergence criteria.
mr president, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, members of parliament, commissioners and ministers! it is my great pleasure to introduce to you today his excellency amadou toumani touré, president of the republic of mali, and his wife. it's not the first time the president has been in parliament, but it's the first time he's spoken to the house. the previous visit took place in april 2009, i.e. one and a half years ago. today's speech is of particular significance because we stand on the eve of the un summit that will be held in two weeks in new york. it will be aimed at reviewing the millennium development goals. we also remember the events of recent years and months, related to terrorism. we are well aware that the republic of mali has a special role to play in the fight against terrorism. we also remember that the republic of mali is one of the countries where democratization has really succeeded. it's an example of great success on this road. and i would like to emphasize once again that it was thanks to your leadership that what happened in the early 1990s happened. after 23 years of military dictatorship, a democratic system was introduced, as well as a free market economy. we know that there is still a long way to go. we're all learning, we're all in a time of transition. we also understand that reform is a continuous process, as we experience in the european union. it is a necessity, also in the republic of mali. we are therefore convinced that the words you will say to us will be relevant not only from the point of view of what is happening in africa and how your country can represent the whole continent on the path of democratic free market development, but also for us in europe. we would like to be a political outpost for countries that need support. we would also like to be a beacon for countries that stand up for the democratic system, the protection of human rights and the fundamental values that we believe in here on this continent. i am convinced that the aspirations of our citizens are similar to those of the people of the republic of mali. i would ask the president to speak.
president of the republic of mali. - mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the european commission, madam high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, mr commissioner for development, honourable members of the european parliament, honourable members from mali, i would first of all like to congratulate you, mr president, on your election as president of the european parliament, but i would also like to thank the chairmen of the political groups and all the members of the european parliament for the privilege of coming here today to share with you, first of all, my vision of some of the major challenges facing my country and even africa, and above all, to stress the efforts it is making every day to find suitable solutions. ladies and gentlemen, mali covers an area of 1 240 000 km2 and is situated in the heart of west africa, with seven countries and 7 000 km of borders. a land of ancient civilizations with a rich and varied cultural heritage, mali's prestigious history could be told through a few facts, landmarks and symbols. among them i would like to mention the charter of kouroukan fouga. adopted 776 years ago, at the founding of the mali empire by soundjata keita in 1236, the charter of "kouroukan fouga" had all the attributes of a constitution. it codified the organisation of power, limits and obligations, the defence of human rights and public freedoms, the protection of professional activities, persons and their property. one of its articles was worded as follows: 'the human person is sacred and inviolable', thus proclaiming, a few centuries in advance, what was to become a key principle of modern democratic constitutions. in the high place of the expression of democracy that is the european parliament, this reference seemed important to me. the history of mali is also timbuktu: the mysterious city, the city of the 333 saints, which already had in the 16th century 25,000 students from many countries to listen to the scholars in the shadow of the venerable mosque of sankoré and its university complex. mahmoud kaati, author of the "tarikh-el-fetach", testifies to the time in these words: "timbuktu was known for the solidity of its institutions, political freedoms, the security of persons and property, for its leniency and compassion towards the poor and foreigners, for its courtesy and assistance to students and scientists". in 2006, timbuktu was declared the capital of islamic culture. mali is also the dogon country, known throughout the world for its exceptional natural site and cultural wealth, which make it the number one tourist destination in our country. mali's history is also one of an ancient relationship with europe. as a reminder, emperor mansa moussa, better known as kankou moussa, established diplomatic relations with portugal as early as the 14th century. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, before you, the elected representatives of europe, i would like to express the deep appreciation of the malian people for the quality and the volume of cooperation between the european union and mali. the european union is mali's main development partner. we are the second largest recipient of european development fund (edf) aid in sub-saharan africa. i would like to congratulate the commission on the success of our cooperation. for example, the 9th edf was committed at 100% and, for almost two years, the 10th edf has been running on very good foundations. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the results of our cooperation have a direct impact on the quality of life of the people. they also strengthen the foundations of our democratic system. the process of democratization in mali, which began following the events leading to the coup d'état of 26 march 1991, was marked by a number of key milestones, including the democratic transition from 26 march 1991 to 8 june 1992, which was completed on time and in accordance with the commitments entered into. after 14 months of transition, free and democratic elections were held in 1992. ten years later, in 2002, i was elected after a presidential election which marked the first democratic alternation in peace in mali. ladies and gentlemen, after my election, i proposed to the malian political class a consensual management of power whose philosophy was essentially this: to govern together, with respect for our differences. the uniqueness of the malian experience lies in the fact that it was not the result of any post-electoral crisis. it is a conscious and voluntary approach to the need to pool the efforts of political, social and associative forces in the service of mali's development. in my view, power should be more a factor of cohesion than of division, and this in respect of all fundamental freedoms. it should be stressed that the political consensus we have adopted or that i have proposed does not mean unanimity. consensus implies rather the notion of compromise. the political consensus in mali is an advanced attempt to build this new political system that is emerging in africa, namely the broad government coalitions. the malian experience has brought together all political forces around the vision of an independent elected president. the political consensus has strengthened the basis for reconciliation between the significant components of the political class and the institutions of the republic, on the one hand, and reconciliation between politicians themselves, on the other. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is in the same spirit of consensus that we have started to reflect on the consolidation of democracy in mali, after 20 years of practice. the expert committee responsible for conducting this mission met with the political class, civil society, religious denominations, trade unions and traditional legitimacies. the reforms proposed following these consultations are primarily aimed at correcting the gaps and shortcomings identified by institutional practice, achieving high voter turnout and reducing the cost of electoral consultations, strengthening the capacity of political parties and developing a statute for the opposition and the leader of the opposition. they will, of course, be the subject of a constitutional referendum after their adoption by the national assembly of mali. it is appropriate for me to greet here, before you, the malian deputies with whom i have the best relations, whether they are in the presidential majority or in the opposition. i would like to express my sincere thanks to these members for agreeing to be present with me here in strasbourg. (applause) i would like to thank mr president, ladies and gentlemen, decentralisation will always play a prominent role in mali's political and institutional development. i would like to remind you that our great empires -- and we've had many since the 10th century -- all of these empires were decentralized. so, in our country, decentralization is a fact. the original decentralisation approaches devised and implemented by mali are based on the following factors: first, the basis of a political will in harmony with the conviction that decentralisation cannot be achieved without decentralisation, and this in successive stages. it cannot be achieved without the development and implementation of substantial reforms to improve economic and social governance, especially at local level. it cannot succeed without the continuing support of the european union in the financial and, above all, in the technical field. the administrative reform support project (parad) and the institutional development programme (idp) have both benefited from european support. they contribute to better organisation of the state and to the modernisation of its administration by strengthening its capacity. mali has 703 urban and rural communes, 49 circles, 8 regions and 1 district, which are administered by communal councils, circle councils and regional assemblies. a high council of local and regional authorities ensures the national representation of our decentralised entities. the creation of a senate is envisaged in the proposed political reforms to deepen our process of decentralisation. to support local development, an original financial instrument called the national agency for investment in local and regional authorities (anict) has made it possible to build many public facilities and, above all, to provide basic social services to our populations. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, before this august assembly i also wished to raise the subject of immigration. the issues of migration concern us all because they have a multifaceted dimension for each of us, for each of our countries, which brings together demographic and economic issues, social and humanitarian considerations and identity and security concerns in the same problematic. today we need to find areas of shared interest and incentives that will make migration a contribution to the overall growth and well-being of our two continents. that is the challenge we face. brain drain is the most significant cost of migration for african countries, given the limited supply of skilled personnel in many fields, including education, but especially health. according to the international organisation for migration (iom), 40% of african countries have 35% or more of their university graduates living abroad. but, make no mistake, the migration of africans is first and foremost and above all in africa. of the estimated 1 billion africans, only 2 million are from sub-saharan africa and live in europe. the tragedy of these young men, women and girls, trying to cross deserts, seas and oceans to the european paradise, at the mercy of all dangers - unscrupulous smugglers, excuse me for the word - is still vivid in our memory: how many died of thirst, how many drowned and disappeared. no statistics can tell. (applause) to take my country, mali, as an example, which is a great country of immigration and emigration, of the 4 million malians around the world, 3 and a half million of them live on the african continent and about 200,000 throughout europe and the rest of the world. in economic terms, the income transfers of the malian diaspora are estimated at €456 million per year, or 11% of gross domestic product, according to a study by the african development bank which was prepared in 2005. according to the same sources, these transfers would be equivalent to 85% of the official development assistance received by mali annually. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to congratulate the european union on the quality of the political dialogue between the european union and mali on migration issues. co-development is a given. it enables some of our partners to finance vocational training programmes for young people in different trades and to support local entrepreneurship initiatives, not to mention programmes for the reintegration of returning migrants. the political dialogue on migration between the european union and west africa has enabled us to set up a pilot project with the creation in bamako of the migration information and management centre (cigem), whose tasks are to improve knowledge of migration phenomena, to welcome, inform, guide and accompany potential migrants and returning migrants, to provide information on the legal conditions of migration and to raise public awareness of the prevention of illegal migration, as well as to develop human, financial and technical capital and malians from abroad. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, security is an important aspect of our relations with the european union. it is therefore appropriate to discuss the sahel-saharan strip, which is now a collective threat, including to europe. covering an area of 8 million km2, a quarter of the african continent, and stretching from mauritania to sudan, mali, burkina faso, niger, algeria, libya and chad, the sahel strip has a population density of almost zero per km2, a very difficult terrain, mountain ranges for hundreds of kilometres and sand dunes covering hundreds of thousands of km2. it is a very hostile area with a particularly harsh climate. it can be barely 1 degree in december and 50 degrees in the shade from february onwards. the only activity is intensive livestock farming in the most inhospitable environments. the drought this year, for example, has caused us to lose 50% of the herd in the sahel-saharan strip. the people there live in precarious conditions and their young people have no alternative but to provide fighters for criminal groups of all kinds. the young remain a key issue. mali is situated in the central-western part of the sahel-saharan strip, which covers an area of 650 000 km2, or 70% of the total area of our country. mali is a transit zone and, as i say emphatically today, my country is also a hostage and at the same time a victim of cross-border threats that come from elsewhere and are mainly aimed at other regions and other continents. the threats are first of all the smuggling of cigarettes, the smuggling of illegal immigrants to europe, drugs from the south american continent and salafist groups from the maghreb. they are manifested in the form of hostage-taking, assassinations, but their main characteristic is extreme mobility on the border bands between countries. none of the threats i have just mentioned originated in our country, none of them are directed at us. mali is a secular country with a large muslim majority, of course. islam has been practiced since the 9th century. our practice of islam has always been peaceful, and above all respectful of the human person. this is our misunderstanding of the islamist ideology preached in the sahel-saharan strip. (applause) its religious impact is still small, but for how long? that is the question we are faced with. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the countries of the sahel-saharan region, including mali, have been making efforts for a long time, both human, material and financial, to stem the phenomenon of insecurity, whose transnational character is taking on increasingly worrying proportions. the scale of the phenomenon is such that it justifies the definition and adoption by mali of a national policy to combat insecurity and terrorism in the sahel-saharan strip. this policy will be based essentially, firstly, on the management of the population to ensure the ownership of security policy, on the assistance to vulnerable populations by meeting basic needs and, above all, on sustainable access to basic social services, on the adoption of new measures for the implementation of this security policy, on the strengthening of the recovery programmes for small arms and light weapons, in the context of the fight against their proliferation, and on the establishment of subregional cooperation to enable us to act locally. to highlight the importance of these security issues, mali has set up a unit for analysis and proposals on the fight against terrorism and other threats, attached to the president of the republic. this initiative is supported by the european union, which we congratulate and thank, and by some of the member states present here. in addition, we have also set up a national office for the suppression of drug trafficking, with a tougher legal arsenal of repressive measures. honourable members, ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the strategic lines of the programme to combat insecurity and terrorism, mali has launched an emergency programme to reduce insecurity and combat terrorism in northern mali, which we have called pirin, covering the period from 2010 to 2012. the overall objective of pirin is to significantly reduce or even completely eliminate the causes of insecurity in northern mali by implementing vigorous actions in the field of security and, above all, community development. the strategy to be developed will be based first on a responsible and above all rational occupation by the state administration; increased mobility of troops for prevention or intervention; appropriate networking of the target area with infrastructure for the armed and security forces; social mobilisation to reduce the influence of religious sects and criminal groups. in financing the emergency programme, the government of the republic of mali and the local authorities will, as far as we are concerned, take care of the staff and the operation, the administrative, social and collective facilities. the project will be managed by an ad hoc structure in the form of a mission administration capable of receiving resources from sectoral budget support and of ensuring coordination between several stakeholders and several ministerial departments. ladies and gentlemen, the management of the sahel-saharan strip is, first of all, a matter of lucid and objective analysis in the context of a vision that is above all concerted. it is in this sense that, as early as 2006, i personally proposed a conference on development and peace in the sahel-saharan strip. we must now accept a shared responsibility. no country in the sahel-saharan region is exempt, but no country can respond to the various threats alone. however, it is important to highlight the profound lack of subregional cooperation in the face of cross-border challenges. it is also important to stress that the fight against terrorism is not only about security. we've seen the limitations of this approach. the fight against terrorism is first and foremost about the commitment and involvement of elected officials, local authorities and the population. but the backbone of this struggle will be local development to offer alternatives to northern communities, and especially to the youth. the training of men can strengthen our operational, logistical and intelligence gathering capacities, but the fight against criminal networks is mainly the responsibility of the countries bordering the sahel-sahara strip. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have already stressed the need to offer a better future to the people of the arid sahel-saharan region. i would add, however, that this aspiration for social progress and well-being is shared by all our compatriots. this is why development issues must be our top concern and particularly the achievement of the millennium development goals. mali has taken a number of initiatives to accelerate its programme. these include the initiative of the 166 rural communities with the most security problems, the initiative of the so-called "millennium villages" and the health initiative we have called compact. we are convinced that not all the targets will be met, but we have made significant progress both in mali and in africa in terms of schooling, reducing the rate of aids prevalence and, most importantly, access to clean water. we have high hopes for the summit in new york in a few days' time, which aims to accelerate the implementation of the mdgs. we believe that it is essential to concentrate efforts on the countries and regions lagging behind, as the european union has stressed in the spring package. mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the european commission, madam high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, mr commissioner for development, honourable members of the european parliament, honourable members of the european parliament from mali, mali, which will celebrate the 50th anniversary of its independence in two weeks' time, i would like to mention for the record that it was the federal republic of germany which was the first country to recognise mali, two days after our independence, that is to say exactly on 24 september 1960. the honour you have bestowed on us today, the welcome you have given us in the plenary session of your parliament, gives me every hope that we are willing and able to go even further, in confidence and above all in friendship. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your very kind attention!
mr president, thank you. you said that you welcome the political dialogue between the european union and mali. we say the same: we welcome political dialogue. you spoke about reforms in your country. these are necessary everywhere, including in our european union. you referred to building political compromise for a better future for africa. we welcome that, because it is what we are doing here in the european union. it is something we have been doing for the past 60 years. we welcome you as a true representative of a democratic africa. thank you for coming and for delivering your speech to our plenary session. (applause)
rapporteur. − mr president, i just want to thank the chairman of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, malcolm harbour, for taking the lead on this issue, and to thank all the shadow rapporteurs, with whom cooperation was exemplary.
thank you, chairman. given that the globalisation adjustment fund was set up to reduce the threat of unemployment and to increase the chances of finding new jobs for those who have suffered from globalisation, it is nevertheless worrying that the 500 million a year that is earmarked for the globalisation adjustment fund is still very little used and that there are nine countries that have not submitted any applications at all. this seems to be a positive initiative, since the commission decided to ease and simplify and also to improve the mechanism for allocating funds after the crisis, but this work must continue. i think this is particularly true of the new member states, where there are many small and mediumsized enterprises, where not many people lose their jobs in one enterprise, but many people lose their jobs in many enterprises. and it is this aspect that needs to be further developed in order to make the globalisation adjustment fund truly available to countries with a gdp below the eu average. thank you.
today we adopted an important report on fair incomes for farmers and improving the functioning of the food supply chain in europe. the functioning of the food chain is not only due to the length of the journey of agricultural products from the field through processing, wholesale and retail trade, to the consumer's table, but also to its specificity and complexity. agricultural production is highly dependent on natural and climatic conditions over which the farmer has very little influence. the processing industry imposes prices on farmers, and trade behaves similarly towards the processing industry and the consumer. it is therefore important to analyse price relationships and monitor their transparency. this does not mean that market laws are violated, but only that the monopolistic activities of intermediaries in trade are limited. supervisory and monitoring bodies are now being introduced into financial markets. some want to remove supervision and monitoring from the agricultural market. it doesn't take into account that producers are fragmented, unbundled and will lose to a powerful trade, incurring huge losses.
in today's world, older people are too often mistakenly considered to be under-productive and unfit for work, even though eu law prohibits age discrimination. what is forgotten is the added value they bring to national economies, thanks to their long experience. in this context, women are particularly disadvantaged in the labour market because of the persistence of gender discrimination. in addition, women live longer than men statistically, which makes them more vulnerable to poverty and to lower pension benefits due to lower wages than men in the same positions. all these problems are particularly evident in rural areas. in this context, i am pleased that resolutions are being passed which remind us of the problem and mobilise us to continue to work to improve the situation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the granting of macrofinancial assistance to the republic of moldova. the eu's assistance to moldova is an important issue, as it could have a significant impact on the country's european future. last week, polish president bronisław komorowski said during a visit to the european parliament that cooperation with moldova should become a priority of our foreign policy. many meps were a bit surprised by this declaration, but moldova is a european country and may one day become a member of the european union. that's why it's worth working with this country and taking seriously the ideas about its future. i hope that the current constitutional crisis in moldova will soon be overcome and new elections will bring out a parliament capable of making historic changes.
in writing. - i am very pleased to note the adoption of today's report by mr winkler on macrofinancial assistance to the republic of moldova. one of our fundamental tasks as members of the european union is to support, by all means possible, those countries which need our help. this is particularly important as it seems necessary to pay more attention to our eastern partners, including moldova. a strong europe is a europe that speaks with one voice, where one of the fundamental principles is solidarity in the broadest sense - including economic solidarity. i believe that a stable economy in that country will certainly be an important factor in improving political relations there.
in writing. − supporting the eu's policy of rapprochement with moldova requires a union-wide effort. the union should require russia to allow moldova to decide for itself on transnistria, which is an integral part of that republic. conditions must be created for the european union's assistance to be used effectively in the region.
in writing. − the increase in short-term contracts offering less favourable terms of employment is particularly evident among young people today. this is a major obstacle to a stable life for citizens and, as a result, to a sustainable economy. green trends in development and industrial innovation are intended to help achieve employment growth while contributing to environmental protection. the committee on the environment, public health and food safety points out that environmentally friendly technologies imposed as a requirement in agriculture will contribute to the employment and income of farmers. it's an interesting thesis, certainly worth discussing and analyzing more closely. information campaigns to raise awareness among citizens of the importance of ecology are also worth supporting.
in writing. − the european council defines development as sustainable if it meets the needs of present generations in a way that does not limit the ability of future generations to meet their needs. the report talks a lot about creating green jobs. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states. on the european continent, germany is a good example of how to implement such a policy. in the transition to a sustainable economy, we must also consider social justice, because it will ensure the acceptance of citizens. the training and continuous upskilling of employees is also important. sustainable development requires not only environmental standards but also labour standards.
in writing. - i am very pleased that this report has been adopted by parliament by such a large majority. i hope that you, like me, have voted in favour of this resolution, thereby supporting two fundamental objectives. first, both i and the imco committee wanted to put non-eu eea countries and switzerland on the agenda of the committee which deals with the heart of the eu, the internal market. i hope that these major economic partners of the union will eventually remain there permanently. the second objective was to address the specific obstacles to this cooperation, particularly on the brussels-berno line. i hope that parliament's vote on this issue will lead both sides, the european commission and the federal authorities, to review the mechanisms currently governing their cooperation.
in writing. - i welcome the results of today's vote. voluntary forms of producer organisations are the most economically efficient social forms of farmer activity. they increase their bargaining power on the market, level the playing field in negotiations with the processing industry and allow production optimisation without the need for excessive external resources. to compete, farmers need to cooperate more. cooperation and coordination at producer organisation level allows a number of initiatives to be taken, such as the promotion of regional products or the implementation of consumer information campaigns, thus ensuring the diversity of production on the community market. in addition, the group is best placed to identify the need for strategic planning, cost rationalisation, improvement of efficiency of management and organisation of sales of agricultural products. the measures for producer groups will have a positive impact on the use of human and investment potential and thus on the increase of income and the improvement of the market position of farms.
in writing. - i supported the resolution on the financing and operation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). the rules for the functioning of the egf need to be improved in order to make effective use of it. i hope that the commission will take advantage of parliament's proposals, which will make it possible to reduce the procedure for granting aid by as much as half. the crisis-induced increase in unemployment has given the egf a special importance, as it provides individual support for redundant workers and their professional activation. the rigorous criteria for granting aid and the length of the procedures mean that member states do not make full use of the possibility of receiving aid from the egf. for example, from my country, poland, only three applications for financial support under the egf were submitted. the main reason for the lack of interest is the long-term nature of the procedures. in addition to improving the functioning of the fund, the criterion of supporting workers made redundant as a result of the current crisis should be extended, at least until the end of the current financial perspective, and the co-financing rate of costs should be maintained at 65%. the impact of the labour market crisis will be felt for many years to come, and this is why such help is and will be needed. i also draw the attention of the commission and the member states to the coordination of the exchange of best practices at european level, which will allow for rapid and effective intervention by the egf in the event of mass redundancies.
in writing. - the report by mr tadeusz zwiefki, which is being put to the vote today, refers to the european commission's green paper on the review of the brussels i regulation on jurisdiction and the recognition of judgments in civil and commercial matters. the green paper debate is, in a way, preparing us for the proper review of this regulation, which we expect to see shortly. this will be a major challenge for parliament because of the extremely complex technical nature of the regulation. the european parliament will also be able to co-decide with the council on this difficult and sensitive subject for the first time. at this stage of the work, there are differences of opinion between the political groups on the proposed changes, for example on exequatur or special jurisdiction in employment matters. the socialist and democratic group therefore decided not to support the report in its present form. i believe, however, that in future all the political groups will cooperate constructively on this matter, because brussels i is a regulation of fundamental importance for the common market. its efficient review will be a test of how parliament is using the new powers it has long sought.
in writing. - i support the report by ms pietikäinen, because it puts the ageing of society in a new light. usually, this process is misrepresented in a negative way. discussions focus on costs and burdens. the consequence is discrimination against older people, and especially women, who live longer, are more at risk of poverty, receive lower pension benefits, and have difficulty accessing public and private services. according to statistics, the proportion of the population aged 65 and over in the european union will increase from 17.1% in 2008 to 30% in 2060, and the proportion of people aged 80 and over from 4.4% to 12.1%. in poland, according to gus, in 2030 there will be as many as 26% of elderly people, or 10 million. it's time to change the way we treat the elderly. it's a huge potential to exploit. it includes, among other things, a vast experience, intellectual capital, knowledge, social competence. the sooner we realise these benefits and start to use them, the better for us, our economies and eu strategies. i therefore welcome the commission's initiative to designate 2012 as the year of active ageing in solidarity between generations. let's promote the so-called silver economy, invest in older people, fight stereotypes. it's our job to make sure that older people want to work. the level, the social culture and the wisdom of a society can be judged by its attitude towards the elderly.
in writing. - in times of economic crisis, women become a group particularly affected by its effects. they are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are not the working population is declining and there are fewer and fewer people in work per pensioner. family policy should be a priority for eu member states. women have a hard time balancing raising children, family life, and their work. we often hear about discrimination against women for childcare duties, both in the recruitment process and in the promotion process. the vast majority of senior positions are held by men. this distribution is then also reflected in the amount of pension benefits and thus in the quality of life. another important issue is the retirement age. by working less, women automatically accumulate fewer social benefits, which affects their standard of living and can lead to poverty. this difference has a negative impact on their chances on the labour market. women and men of the same age are perceived differently by employers, as employers do not want to hire women who will reach retirement age in the near future. the differences in pension benefits also arise from the difference in pay, which also needs to be eliminated.
in writing. - i believe that morten lokkegaard's report 'journalism and the new media - creating a public sphere in europe' contains many worrying provisions restricting media freedom. i consider in particular articles 8, 14, 20, 23, 31 and 39 and points n and o of the preamble to be inadmissible. in my opinion, morton lokkegaard's report is an interference with the freedom of the press. it emphasises, among other things, that public broadcasters have a duty to inform about the european union. i would also point out that this report imposes new financial obligations on the european union by proposing, among other things, an increase in the appropriations in the budget lines for parliament's information offices. the report 'journalism and the new media' also proposes to include eu subjects as a subject in school curricula. i believe that the eu institutions should not be involved in the design of curricula, that should be the responsibility of the member states. i do not agree with the rapporteur's view of the role of the media in the european union and the imposition of additional financial burdens on the union and the member states, and i have therefore decided to vote against the report.
i'm resuming the hearing. the minutes of yesterday's meeting are now publicly available. i'd like to ask if there are any comments on the protocol. i don't see any comments. the protocol has been approved.
the agenda includes a statement by the council and the commission on the situation of the roma in europe. i would like to welcome to our meeting the representative of the council, mr olivier chastel, vice-president of the european commission vivian reding and commissioner lászló andor. mr olivier chastel will be the first to speak on behalf of the council.
in writing. the roma, or gypsies as they used to be called, are as worthy of respect as any other ethnic group. they are a people who have been present in europe for centuries. the roma also brought a rich culture to europe. and that's how they should be seen, with their poetry, their song, their music, their craftsmanship, their love of travel, their eternal wanderings. attempts have been made to exterminate them, to forcibly settle them, to teach them their customs and to force them to renounce their traditions and values. they didn't give up, they're still with us. but the world is changing. today, their world is dramatically different from the world around them, from the world of career at any cost, consumption, getting rich and success. this situation is a challenge for all of us, for all of europe. the eu must develop an effective support programme for this community, so that, while respecting its tradition, it can break out of its isolation and exclusion. the european union was not created just to live in peace and to get rich. it is also responsible for meeting the most difficult challenges. i also do not believe that any eu country is incapable of bringing the real perpetrators of crime to justice, rather than simply being satisfied with the general suspicion of any group of criminal predisposition.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank you for putting pakistan on the agenda. more importantly i would also like to thank parliament for its active contribution so far to the eu response by organising very useful meetings at committee level and for having exercised your right of scrutiny very rapidly, in fact in one day, this summer. that allowed us to adopt financing decisions swiftly to ensure help could be on its way. my aim today is to convey the impressions gained from my recent mission to pakistan, identify the next steps in our efforts, and conclude with some lessons we can draw for the european union. so let me start with my impressions of pakistan, which were dominated by the fact that this is an incredibly complex situation which is actually two disasters in one. up in the north there are 3 million internally displaced people and refugees, who have had to flee from armed conflicts only to see their camps and their newly-built houses washed away and their newly-built lives destroyed. downstream, in the fertile plains of south pakistan, rural communities have lost not only their homes, but also their livelihoods and a large part of the economy of pakistan on which the country relies. since i briefed the development committee, the numbers indicating the impact of this disaster have actually gone up. all in all, more than 20 million pakistanis have been affected by the floods across the whole country. more than 12 million people are in need of immediate assistance. (the president asked some members to be quiet). i know that the issue that was discussed before is a very important one for european values. as indeed is the one i am addressing now, so thank you. in terms of numbers, just a week ago we were talking about 8 million people being in need of immediate assistance. now the numbers have been revised upwards to 12 million. more than 1.8 million houses have been destroyed or damaged; this number has been revised up from 1.2 million. more than 3.4 million hectares of agricultural land are under water. there are reports of diarrhoea and cholera outbreaks. in these conditions our aid is focusing on the obvious immediate priorities: food, clean water, sanitation, health assistance and shelter. in the face of a disaster of such massive proportions, massive international relief assistance is necessary. so let me move straight to the next point. what has the eu done, and what do we intend to do next? our humanitarian response has been significant. the eu, that is the member states and the commission, has contributed so far a total of eur 231 million for immediate relief assistance, with eur 70 million coming from the commission and the remaining eur 161 million from the member states. twelve member states have also mobilised in-kind assistance through the union’s civil protection mechanism. this makes us the largest donor. our contribution should be measured against the un call for usd 460 million for immediately relief, but i must also stress that this call is going to be revised upwards and we will probably get a new appeal from the un within a week. our assistance was also swift. on 30 july, it became clear that the floods were going to be devastating and our first financial decision for eur 30 million was taken on the next day, 31 july. we activated the european civil protection mechanism, on receiving a request from the pakistani authorities, immediately on 6 august and we deployed a team of 18 experts to coordinate our assistance with the un and the pakistani authorities so it could be most effective. this is the fist time that in-kind aid from member states has been delivered using civil strategic airlift capacity in coordination with the eu military staff. it allowed us to provide much-needed water purification units, mobile hospitals, medicine, shelter and tents. but i am not going to hide the fact that, despite this tremendous effort, there are big challenges ahead of us. so let me highlight four main challenges. first, the humanitarian crisis is far from over. we may not yet have even reached the peak of this crisis. we know from relief workers that, as of today, they expect in the month of september to have reached 6 million people out of the 12 million who are in need of assistance. so in a way the crisis is expanding faster than help can be mobilised to catch up with it. the situation may get worse before it gets better, especially in terms of epidemics. secondly, it is critically important, as we strive to reach as many people as possible, to target those that are most vulnerable. these include poor communities, women, especially women-led households, children, the elderly and the handicapped, because they are likely to be left out if they are not targeted consciously. so this is exactly what the commission aims to do, working with our 26 partners. thirdly, bringing aid speedily is not only a matter of people’s survival. it is also a matter of preserving the stability of a country which faces significant security challenges. popular discontent can easily grow out of desperation and therefore we have to be absolutely determined to try to help people as quickly as possible, as much as possible. fourthly, important as it is to save lives today, we also need to think of recovery starting now. in terms of early recovery there are two very important tasks. to ensure agricultural recovery when the water recedes, we have to be ready with tools and seeds and with help to farmers so they can catch up this planting season. at the same time there is a need to rebuild the critical infrastructure that connects farmers to markets and also allows us to reach out to remote communities. in the long term, obviously, the country is facing a major challenge of recovery. an assessment led by the world bank and the asian development bank, with the commission and the undp, is currently ongoing to determine the long-term recovery needs. we have been working throughout very closely with high representative and vice-president ashton, commissioner piebalgs and commissioner de gucht so that the european union can come up with a comprehensive and holistic proposal as to how we can support the country's development. pakistan will be on the agenda in the next gymnich meeting and at the friends of democratic pakistan meeting in brussels on 14 and15 october. so let me draw some lessons for the eu. i see three. first, the pakistani floods are only one of many reminders that the impact of climate change is profound. looking at the resulting cost, it is very important to focus on disaster preparedness and also on rebuilding a highly vulnerable country devastated by a disaster in a way that is resilient to the risk of climate change. taking a cautious approach, i cannot claim that these floods are caused by climate change. i certainly know, however, that scientific opinion is very clear that the increased frequency and intensity of disasters is due to climate change. secondly, in a year which saw an earthquake in haiti, a drought in the sahel, conflict in sudan and now floods of major proportions in pakistan, once again our budgetary situation is precarious, as our own budget and the emergency aid reserve are almost depleted. yet it is still only the beginning of september. because of the upward trend in the number and intensity of disasters, there is a widening gap in our humanitarian budget which must be taken into account as we prepare for the next financial perspective so we can match our resources to our citizens’ commitment to helping people in need. my third point is that the eu has been on the front line since the outset of the crisis, and yet in the early days our presence was not widely reported in the media. we have to focus very strongly, therefore, on improving not only the efficiency but also the visibility of eu disaster response instruments, as was indicated this morning in the session that you had with president barroso. we will come up with a proposal in the next month. let me conclude by stating with pride, on behalf of our citizens, that pakistan has shown that eu solidarity is not just words; it is deeds and action. we can take pride in that, because our work is not only saving lives but also upholding principles and values that are at the heart of the european project.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. the floods in pakistan are a major humanitarian disaster, affecting tens of millions of people. we should not be racing to give the number of victims and compare the suffering, so i will not compare this disaster to others. it was a great tragedy. i would like to thank commissioner georgievej for the rapid and appropriate action taken by the european commission. it is a pity that we were unable to organise an extraordinary meeting of the development committee of our parliament during the holidays, but on the other hand we can be proud that the european union reacted quickly and in solidarity. we must remember that millions of people still need help, support and cooperation. the commissioner's priorities, beyond emergency aid, agriculture and transport, are indeed key. if we don't save pakistan's agriculture, there will be another humanitarian food disaster next year. paradoxically, there is a chance that the floods will have some positive effects, such as curbing the activities of extremists, facilitating the solution of the refugee problem. i am pleased that the commissioner intends to present initiatives to increase the effectiveness of our instruments for responding to humanitarian disasters. i am also pleased that the belgian presidency is ready to take up these initiatives as a priority of its own presidency. the european parliament will certainly support such initiatives.
madam president! in the face of a huge humanitarian disaster in pakistan, the european union has acted more effectively than in the past. i think it's very satisfying for all of us here to see some progress in terms of, for example, aid to haiti. i'd like to point out two very important things. the first concerns the increase in the union's real capacity, and i emphasise the words 'the union's real capacity' in humanitarian aid. for example, air transport issues would have to be addressed. without such transport, it is difficult to provide effective assistance. the second case concerns better coordination at union level. the union is making a very strong effort, but the point is that this effort should be coordinated more closely within the union and the member states.
the single market and the freedom to work are among the greatest benefits of european integration. we are discussing the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states for the europe 2020 strategy in the midst of the crisis that has hit european economies and labour markets. the fight against unemployment should therefore become one of the priorities of union policy, for which the common budget must provide funds. in this regard, close cooperation at union level and the establishment of current crisis-related objectives as well as strategic objectives are necessary. europe faces long-term challenges such as demographic change and globalisation. both at european level and within member states, we need to ensure the potential for job creation and help with integration into labour markets. however, these priorities cannot be pursued at the expense of increased administrative and regulatory burdens. we must ensure that the member states' actions in areas such as the economy, employment and social affairs are consistent. however, guidelines and common objectives at union level may in no case undermine the competences of the member states.
mr president, there is a high risk of ‘jobless recovery’ or ‘jobless growth’ and europe cannot afford that to happen. firstly, we must focus our employment strategy on the union’s comparative advantages – which are education, research and green technology. secondly, we must avoid a trade-off between innovation and job creation; such a trade-off can be avoided if innovation is inclusive. thirdly, we must strike a sustainable balance between support for existing jobs and the creation of new ones. investing in a highly-skilled labour force will go hand in hand with innovation. of course there will be jobs that are not sufficiently rewarded by the markets, and we must have policy instruments to cope with this. fourthly, there is a need to activate both labour demand and supply policy measures. there are plenty of employment policy instruments available, but they must be put together in a good and comprehensive policy framework. fifthly, we must successfully orchestrate efforts and responsibilities and policy instruments between all levels of governance – european, national, regional and local. last but not least, the internal market must provide for full mobility of the labour force, particularly in terms of career and lifelong learning; and it must do so horizontally geography-wise.
mr. chairman, please! in the european employment policy debate, we talk more about fighting unemployment and providing adequate social protection, but unfortunately we spend much less time on issues such as increasing labour force participation and supporting entrepreneurs who create new jobs. the priority of promoting vocational activity is included in the guidelines. but remember, along with priorities, it's also incredibly important to implement them. the european commission's communication is worrying, as it shows that 70% of the social fund for increasing employment has been used by beneficiaries who are educated and employed, and only 30% by those who are looking for work. i hope that the implementation of the 2020 strategy will reverse this, and indeed increase the effectiveness of the social fund, while at the same time contributing to an increase in the labour force participation rate, and thus finally becoming competitive in the global labour market.
i would like to start by congratulating my colleague csaba öry for a great opinion. the guidelines should be clear and simple, and the reduction in the number of guidelines is a step in the right direction. increasing the level of labour force participation is a key challenge. it is not enough to reduce structural unemployment. it is important to anticipate and prevent, to educate and develop entrepreneurship and flexibility. it is not enough to increase the number of people entering higher education. higher education institutions must provide training at the appropriate level and in areas where there is a need for staff. the best way out of poverty is to get a job. however, individual support programmes are often needed. it is also necessary to measure the effectiveness of actions in this area. the success of the europe 2020 strategy depends on its close link with cohesion policy. the simplified and de-bureaucratized structural funds should serve the objectives of the strategy.
in writing. the union economy is slowly recovering from the crisis that began in 2008. however, employment levels in most eu countries remain worryingly low below pre-crisis levels. young people are one of the groups most affected by the problem of rising unemployment during the economic crisis. since 2008, the number of young people out of work has increased dramatically and the unemployment rate for those aged 15 to 25 is now higher than the overall unemployment rate in many member states. these figures are worrying, especially in the context of the ageing of the european union's populations, which means that the number of people of working age is decreasing in relation to those who are retired. it is therefore particularly important to support young people in taking up their first job and finding stable employment. the report on the guidelines for employment policies under the europe 2020 strategy is a positive step towards improving the situation of young people in the labour market. however, additional measures at member state level are needed to ensure a significant improvement. particular emphasis should be placed on supporting young people in finding their first job and on combating unemployment among graduates. providing a skilled workforce with skills that meet market demand and preparing graduates for entry into the labour market are just some of the tasks that should be undertaken at school level.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me to be here in parliament. it is true that this house embodies the construction of europe and it is therefore not without a little emotion that i allow myself to speak today on such an important subject as the preparation of the 2011 budget. this is all the more so since it is a completely new procedure, in which the role of parliament has been very clearly strengthened. we will therefore jointly initiate the procedure under the lisbon treaty for drawing up the 2011 budget. that is why it is all the more important for me to be here today and to make this speech in this chamber. i would also like to point out that in the context of this cooperation, of these discussions which we have to have in accordance with this new procedure of the lisbon treaty, we have had a number of good first contacts. the first trilogy went pretty well, so it bodes well for the future. the council is aware that parliament regrets the absence of political discussion in the preparation and establishment of the council's position. it is true that the work was carried out in the committee on budgets, but i would stress that it was carried out within the framework of the political guidelines very clearly defined by the ecofin council of 16 march 2010 and it was only in order to be able to respect protocol no 1 on the role of national parliaments that the council formally adopted its position by written procedure on 12 august last. this is therefore not in any way within the political scope of the council's position. the budgetary procedure for 2011 is a first for all of us, with its new rules, and it is obvious that we will have to learn from it in the future. of course, this budget was drawn up by the council on the basis of a number of principles: respect for the financial perspective for 2007-13, ensuring sound financial management and, secondly, ensuring sufficient margins to ensure that the various political positions of the european union are clear and credible and real. the drafting of this budget must be placed within a framework of budgetary rigour which has had to be present in each of the countries of the european union. we have just had a particularly difficult year in 2009 and this budgetary rigour must therefore also be reflected in the preparation of this 2011 budget. perhaps i will allow myself to go over the various guidelines of this 2011 budget in more detail and then go through some of the headings which i thought it was important to highlight with you today. we are proposing a budget of €142 billion in commitment appropriations, which is €788 million less than the commission's proposal. as for payment appropriations, the council adjusted them by eur 3.6 billion compared with the appropriations proposed by the commission in its draft, a reduction of 2.8%. in this context, the council also took into account the commission's indications regarding payments for the 2007 and 2013 cohesion policy programmes and, in particular, the most recent information on the planned start and cruise speed for major projects. it is noted that a number of these are being implemented late. let me also point out that after the reduction made by the council, the total payment appropriations are still increasing substantially, by 2.91% compared with 2010. this is almost 1% above zero growth, or the inflation rate set in the multiannual financial framework. i would also draw your attention to the methodology adopted by the council which is perfectly in line with the latest budget forecasts, the total commitment and payment appropriations are clearly increasing, both in absolute terms and as a percentage. i shall not go through all the budgetary items item by item. i would simply like to point out that in heading 1a we know that youth policy is a priority for parliament. this was in all the documents of parliament. it is true that we are a little behind the commission's proposal, but these budgets are clearly still increasing compared to 2010. as regards heading 1b, all the amounts in this budget were actually determined on the basis of their actual implementation, with strict respect for the actual implementation. we also recall, in the context of heading 4, that the council is very concerned to preserve the european union's capacity to respond effectively to political, economic and social challenges, particularly at international level, and we are fully aware that new budgetary needs may emerge during the current budgetary procedure. it should also be noted, in the context of heading no 5, that we have of course not changed the european parliament's requests concerning its administrative budget, but that it seems to us important that each of our institutions should make an effort to remain within the financial framework and to respect the road map which is ours today. in conclusion, i think it was really important to share this presentation with you, it was essential for the council to be here today and to show what the logic was that we followed in drawing up the budget. i know that the european parliament's perception may differ from the position adopted by the council, but i expect the negotiations with parliament to be constructive and fruitful and i also thank the commission for its support during the process which is proving to be full of challenges. to be complete, i cannot end my speech without mentioning the budget review which the commission will publish at the end of this month. the priorities for the 2011 budget and in particular the 2020 strategy will undoubtedly be the priorities for the coming years. in this context, the council and parliament must now begin to reflect in depth on the future architecture of the european budget and its financing. and i can assure you that the belgian presidency will ensure that the council attaches particular importance to the budget review. finally, as regards the 2011 budget itself, i can assure you that the belgian presidency will do its utmost to overcome all the obstacles in the way of this budget, which will be the first to be negotiated under the provisions of the lisbon treaty. i really hope that we can show that this process has been a success. the council will spare no effort to ensure that the budget benefits as many european citizens as possible, who are also the taxpayers on whom the financing of our budget ultimately depends.
member of the commission. − mr president, with the council’s reading we are now in the decisive phase of the annual procedure but this is by no means the routine procedure as we are, for the first time, under the lisbon treaty and the hot budgetary season is arriving. at our last trialogue not much was agreed, not much has moved forward, but at least what was agreed were the dates and modalities for the functioning of the conciliation committee in 2010. so now the calendar is set, council’s reading is over, parliament is to take its position by 20 october and the commission will continue to attentively follow the emerging views and sensitivities of both arms of the budgetary authority. but next to the budget – and this is very important – on the agenda we still have a whole package of adjustments to the lisbon treaty. therefore it requires real good will from both sides to agree, because this time there is a wide range of difficult things to solve on the negotiating table for november, so the november conciliation will be multidimensional. on the substance, as mentioned by the minister, there are cuts in payments by eur 3.6 billion. the commission, when presenting the draft budget, was fully aware of the constraints and austerity that exist in the member states and the measure of our responsibilities, such that we have drafted the budget eur 4 billion below the ceiling of the financial perspective and, what is more, we have concentrated all the increases on heading 1. that is conducive to growth and jobs and it should be seen as small anti-crisis packages locally or sectorally placed. this is 96% of the increases that have been concentrated in heading 1, as a measure of our responsibility. it is quite usual for cohesion to move at a cruising speed in the middle of a financial perspective, after a slow start. as for commitments, we welcome the fact that the council will not be cutting operational expenditure but also cutting pre-accession programmes, which could be a signal to the candidate countries and could provoke a measure of reopening of the programming process and the revision of the allocation of funds between countries. a small comment on administration: i am going to be very tough on this issue and i am not going to be very popular with my colleagues. but what is being cut are the so-called administrative support lines and the main victim is heading 4. this is about managing programmes, including emergency reactions to natural disasters, which is becoming a real challenge for the european union. the european union was the first to react very quickly to the pakistan disaster. as for the humanitarian aid and also for emergency aid reserves, i launched this procedure last week, but that needs management. this is about management administration lines for operational programmes. another area that was cut was the increase for research executive agencies, which are phasing in, and research executive agencies are managing the seventh framework programme, which is growing by eur 1 billion in 2010 and should grow and will grow by eur 1 billion in 2011. as for the conclusions, i would ask both arms of the budgetary authority to take carefully into consideration the concerns i expressed in negotiating the final multidimensional agreement and not to only consider the figures for 2011. as usual, we in the commission are ready to serve as an honest broker seeking, as an intermediary, to play a constructive role to achieve a good conclusion for 2011.
the rapporteur. - ladies and gentlemen, the 2011 budget is not only the first budget implemented under the lisbon treaty, as my predecessors have rightly pointed out, but it is also the first budget on the basis of which the new political ideas that the lisbon treaty brings will be implemented. this is also the fifth budget drawn up on the basis of the 2007-13 multiannual financial perspective, so we should already know a lot about its weaknesses and strengths in the fifth budget i appreciate the efforts of the belgian presidency in preparing the council reading, but i am very concerned that as many as seven member states voted against the council reading. i sometimes get the irresistible and unpleasant impression that when the finance ministers of the individual member states look at their national budgets and see the item 'contribution to the budget of the european union', they think about how to reduce it, how to get rid of it, without thinking about what is really happening with this contribution, what is being financed by it, without thinking and debating about the consequences of reducing it. i very much regret that such a debate is lacking and was lacking, in my view, when the council's draft was adopted. i also feel that the council's proposal lacks the necessary justification in terms of detail. why have these budget lines been reduced and not others? why were they reduced to this dimension and not another? i hope that as we continue our work, we will be able to clarify and clarify the missing information. we have a greater responsibility to ensure that the next budgetary process for 2011 is detailed and accurate and that we consider each budget line responsibly, that is, not just thinking about percentages but also about what is important, what we want to finance and what we can sacrifice in order to save. i would like to emphasize the priority of the european parliament, which is no longer surprising to anyone, it is not the only one. this is a priority for youth, mobility and education. if the council proposes to cut the main line of this priority, namely the line relating to lifelong learning, by eur 25 million, it is difficult to talk about dialogue here. i hope, however, that we will return to a serious dialogue during the consent procedure, because we have made our priorities clear enough to take them into account more than by proposing such cuts. we are currently in the process of preparing the reading in the european parliament. we are very far along, and i hope that our reading will be adopted by the committee on budgets by the end of the month and that we will be able to show at the plenary session at the beginning of october that a good and constructive budget can be adopted under the lisbon treaty. i look forward to good cooperation with both the belgian presidency and the commission.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. there can be no free and democratic society without free and pluralistic media guaranteeing the transmission of reliable information and different points of view and opinions to the people. media for democracy is like the circulatory system for the body. this metaphor from the medical world seems to be more relevant here than anywhere else. if the circulation fails, the flow of blood is impeded, and the body inevitably weakens and begins to get sick. it's no different with the relationship between media pluralism and democracy. if the flow of information fails and is blocked, democracy is in trouble. it seems obvious to us, but it is not, contrary to what we think, because we do not give it the attention it deserves, even in the european union. it is high time that the institutions of the european union started to pay much more attention to this fundamental - i emphasise what the commissioner said: 'fundamental problem'. the question is whether we are doing enough and whether the eu institutions are doing enough to ensure that the bulk of media coverage is not concentrated in the hands of a few. the aim is also to prevent the concentration of different media in different areas, i.e. television, press, internet and radio, by individual operators. it seems that the european union should do much more to introduce legislation to ensure decentralisation in each of these areas of the media market, not just in television. often, it should be emphasized, the limits of expression in commercial media are determined by the interests of their owners, the interests of advertisers. the danger is also that media owners who are sympathetic to certain political groups may prefer their viewpoints. in poland, there is a problem of a closed media system, as some commentators call it. all the major media outlets speak with one voice. journalists who go outside of this mainstream, who present a different point of view, are met with negative coverage, sometimes with infamy actions, or even attempts to discredit. so there's a problem of a great asymmetry in the transmission of information and opinion, which is the foundation of a democratic society. i can name journalists - editor sakiewicz, pospieszalski, editor stankiewicz, jankowska, who have been meeting with harassment in poland recently, you could say that, although it's a strong word. these people have a beautiful tradition in the struggle for a free and independent poland, for a free and democratic society, for a free and democratic media. now in europe we have to remember this and do everything we can to bring about a real pluralism in the media market.
i am very pleased that the issue of freedom of expression is the subject of today's debate, because in june of this year i initiated, together with other members of the european parliament, the creation of a reflection group on this issue. invited journalists in strasbourg spoke about the forms of ostracism used against media representatives. the participants of this meeting presented ways to restrict freedom of speech by imposing huge financial penalties by the courts for raising awkward historical topics and defending traditional values, blocking the distribution of films presenting awkward topics, such as the causes of the smolensk disaster, harassing the constant controls of catholic radio stations that do not sympathize with the rulers. but i would like to mention a very spectacular case of an investigative journalist in poland being bullied into breaking his psyche with false accusations. in desperation, he tried to commit suicide. in his farewell letter to his children, he wrote that they should not believe the slanderous things they write about him. this is just one of the many cases we've seen during the june meeting. the next meeting of the reflection group on the defence of the right to freedom of expression will take place on 22 september in strasbourg.
i'd like to speak out about the pressures on freedom of speech by media companies. at the request of a powerful media group, the first auction of a politician's assets for his views took place last month in free poland, and perhaps the first in the european union. that politician was me, jacek kurski, a member of the european parliament. for giving a speech that agora did not like, the bailiff auctioned my property for 24,000 euros, the equivalent of the annual income of a polish mp i was four years ago. it was widely felt that my statement was part of a broader political criticism and controversy, the sole judge of which should be public opinion, not the court. i took the case to the european court of human rights in strasbourg, but agora has already sued dozens of prominent poles for expressing critical opinions about it. a particular scandal of civil rights violations is that agora becomes a super court party to the lawsuit. he gets the right to put ads in his newspaper, so if he has a whim, he can ruin everyone. confiscation or auctioning of property is the belarusian standard and was used in the times of the prl. i think the commission should take this into account in its position. we don't want to live in a europe where property is confiscated for expressing an opinion.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. i have listened with regret to all the cases of violation of freedom of speech in europe. i don't know if you realize that you're adopting a law that restricts that freedom. the løkkegaard report, which has been voted for by all the political clubs in this house, with the honourable exception of my political group, contains some curious provisions restricting freedom of speech and freedom of the press. i recommend that you read paragraphs 14, 20, 23 or 39, with particular reference to paragraphs 8 and 31. point 8 says that the eu body is to monitor the public media in europe, and point 31 says that the media must report on our work. for the attention of the media and the public, we should be earning our hard work, not by obliging someone to report on our work. the media are not obliged to report on the work of nato or the un, nor are they obliged to report on the work of parliament.
madam president, it is absolutely vital that our voters are well informed on current affairs. information encourages citizens’ interest in public matters and their participation. we, as politicians, need a level playing field if our various messages are to get a fair public hearing. unfortunately today the commercial media are increasingly choosing only to entertain our voters. as a result, they have limited their coverage of current affairs. thus it falls to our public media to do more and more in the field of information and education. dangerously there are some parties and politicians who continue to try to gain control over the public media. this is happening in many member states – italy, hungary, romania and france, to name just a few. we must resist this trend. since 1989 the council of europe, which has already been mentioned in our debate, has played a magnificent role in setting standards for free and unbiased public media in europe. these council of europe standards must be enforced in all member states, both in the former communist east and in western europe. we as a parliament should work more closely with our neighbours here in strasbourg on this issue. our member state governments are responsible for ensuring that public media retain their independence and their ability to provide unbiased information, and we, the european parliament, should continue to monitor how well they fulfil this public duty.
on behalf of the ecr group. member states apply the directive often cited here in accordance with their own family law principles. it's hard to be any other way. otherwise, they would be undermining their own sovereignty in family law, which is guaranteed by the treaties. i think the commission can confirm that. states that do not recognize the institution of same-sex partnership cannot recognize it, and there is nothing extraordinary about that. i could just as easily demand that the polish or irish abortion laws be applied to polish citizens in sweden or the uk. i don't think we're feeling reciprocal in this case, and i don't think anyone here is demanding it. the european system of human rights protection is also a particularly flawed argument. according to the strasbourg court of justice, the lack of legal recognition of a same-sex union, let alone a same-sex marriage, does not constitute discrimination. for these reasons, this whole debate is once again a complete waste of time.
it is unacceptable that there are countries in europe where the rights of people in marriages and partnerships are differentiated according to sexual orientation. in some member states, homosexuals cannot legally regulate their unions, and unions legally entered into in other countries are not recognised. in poland, even in the face of such a tragedy as the death of a loved one, the same-sex partner is treated as a second-class citizen. how can we end tolerance for discrimination based on sexual orientation when even in this room, there are outrageous, homophobic statements? their authors are clearly unaware that homophobia as a shameful condition should be treated. let's stop dividing the citizens into the good and the bad. everyone has equal rights to legal marriage, to adoption, to work in any profession, to an honest education, to not conceal their sexual preferences, to love, to be proud and to be happy.
i'm happy to accept the compromise on the establishment of a financial surveillance system. indeed, the european markets required these mechanisms. what i personally welcome is the emphasis on the role of the european central bank. we seem to be safer and the experience of the european central bank gives us a more optimistic outlook for the future, and the creation of a european system of financial supervisors should be seen as a step in a very good direction. we're really starting to coordinate spending policies, and we're not just doing tax collection in europe. the reporting system will be very important. please note that national governments, which take decisions and commit to respecting budget deficits, are not the only authority to spend money in their country.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm glad this regulation came into being. i congratulate mrs. jeggle, because the work on the compromise was very difficult. it is good that the european union is regulating another important area of animal welfare and that we are adopting measures to prevent cruelty to animals. the system of animal testing that has been in place has been a cruel one. this can be reduced and the regulation is moving in that direction. cruelty to animals hurts animals and causes them suffering, but it hurts people most of all. it's an insult to human dignity. the man who is cruel to animals is acting against his own humanity and dignity. it is good that the regulation adopted by parliament today is moving in this direction. there's one point in the bill that's questionable, but i'll make it clear in a statement after the vote.
in writing. following the second reading procedure, meps were unable to express their opinion on the final text of the regulation on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes (jeggle report). however, i would like to emphasise my fundamental objection to the use of embryonic stem cells as an alternative to animal research for scientific purposes being authorised in that regulation. it is an expression of a faulty anthropology that assumes the possibility of destroying human life at its earliest stage of development in order to improve animal welfare. the guarantees proposed by the european parliament at first reading were much more explicit in this respect. the vague provisions of the regulation pose a real threat to the maintenance of the legal order of countries such as germany, where we are dealing with partial protection of embryos. the fact that these methods are not excluded implies that they are legal in countries such as poland, ireland and malta.
i welcome today's debate on acta. i believe that this is a step towards strengthening the position of the european parliament as the institution that represents the citizens of the european union. i would like to stress that the european parliament has the right to be informed and consulted by the european commission on agreements negotiated by it in the field of trade in services and commercial aspects of intellectual property. through today's debate, this right is being given substance and will, i hope, become good practice for the european commission in the future too. i would like to point out that the confidentiality of the european commission's acta negotiations has generated a lot of negative emotions among internet users. this emotion could be avoided if the european commission were to inform us much more widely about its activities in this area from the outset. in my written question to the commission, i raised the issue of the link between acta and european information society policy and its extra-legal effects.
scientific progress is a prerequisite for economic development, and therefore innovative research is the basis for new and better solutions that serve both the economy and, above all, people. however, the costs involved cannot be underestimated. the most important thing in the economy should be the welfare of the living creature. if man does not respect the laws of nature, but interferes too much with them, nature may oppose him. that is why the recommendations adopted today are so important. i voted in favour of them because it is a good compromise: on the one hand it allows the necessary scientific research to be carried out, and on the other hand it minimises as far as possible the suffering of the animals used in this research.
i support the proposed solutions for the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. i believe that these are balanced, sustainable solutions, and that they are appropriate to our times and to the aspirations of civilization. i have to admit, however, that i made a mistake in the voting. i voted for the first amendment by mistake, and i was in favor of rejecting all amendments, hence my statement.
it is good that the european commission has put forward a proposal for integrated guidelines for europe 2020, which we have adopted in parliament today. in the current economic climate, this is a good step, showing the commitment and responsibility of the eu institutions for the economy and employment. it is also good that they were designed with consistency and transparency in mind. aspects such as increasing the employment rate, reducing structural unemployment, developing a skilled workforce, promoting quality employment and lifelong learning, increasing higher education, combating poverty and social exclusion must be implemented as they guarantee a sustainable economy and strengthen the potential for job creation. it has been rightly said that investment in sustainable growth and the elimination of socioeconomic disparities between member states and regions should be combined with the creation of sustainable jobs. in conclusion, i express my deep hope that the europe 2020 document will deliver the expected results, especially in the employment policy dimension.
in writing. −i regret that the council directive was finally adopted without the provision adopted by the european parliament in may 2009 that stem cell and human embryo studies cannot be used as alternative methods. irrespective of the content of the directive, i believe that this kind of approach, i.e. replacing animal experiments with experiments on humans, should not be used.
in writing. − the employment policy guidelines for the next 10 years indicate that the service sector will be one of the areas where the greatest number of jobs will be created. in order for these jobs to be created, favourable conditions for businesses must exist in relation to the provision of services, including those of a cross-border nature. i would therefore like to stress that the services directive, if only its implementation by the member states is improved, can help employment policy. the directive creates new opportunities for businesses, but its good application will have a positive impact on labour markets. i therefore support the conclusions of the report. the services sector will require well-prepared, skilled and mobile workers, and we need changes in education, training and employment policies.
in writing. − i supported the report on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states entitled 'integrated guidelines for the europe 2020 strategy - part two'. with the eu unemployment rate at 9.6%, employment policies need to be intensified and rationalised in order to create new jobs. in poland, thousands of people have benefited from eu support and are now active in the labour market. the funds for this purpose are not always properly spent. the lack of properly defined guidelines means that many projects are carried out on an ad hoc basis. as a result, the training is often out of touch with reality and the same people are involved. i therefore support the commission's initiative in this respect. the guidelines developed during the crisis will be reviewed in the coming years. it will be up to them to ensure that the union can cope with the crisis and that the new jobs meet the present and future needs of the labour market. it will also be important to examine the effectiveness of the guidelines by collecting individual statistics on the effectiveness of the actions taken on the basis of them. only then will we see the real impact of eu funding on reducing unemployment in the union. this in turn will allow for possible changes in this area. i also call for a special focus on promoting the mobility and employment of women, young people, the elderly and the disabled.
in writing. − three months to go until the end of 2010, and the islamic republic of iran's judiciary has already handed down 2,000 death sentences this year. assuming optimistically that the last quarter will not bring any such punishment, and we know about all the sentences, five iranian citizens are learning every day that they will soon lose their lives. this morning, it could be sakineh mohammadi-ashtiani, sentenced in 2006 to be stoned to death for adultery. at noon, it could fall on mohammad mostafaei, a lawyer and human rights defender who fled iran for fear of arrest and repression. in the afternoon, nasrin sotoudeh, who is fighting for a reduction in the number of death sentences for minors, could be the victim of the iranian regime, while in the evening, dutch citizen zahra bahrami is arrested for participating in a street protest. finally, after a fifth, unnamed victim, the iranian authorities reach out at night during secret detentions. we therefore strongly demand the abolition of the death penalty in iran, the abolition of the stoning of sakineh mohammadi-ashtiani and the release of zahra bahrami from custody. we also recall that iran is a signatory to the international covenant on civil and political rights, which states in article 18: "everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion".
there are fine words here about cooperation and trust, but i have the impression that the so-called french facts are really what decide exports outside the union. the biggest and richest countries in the european union are doing their thing, not following the standards and rules that we talk about so much here. in recent days, we have heard again of the french sale of mistral landing craft to russia. if this case has not been finalised, it is only because russia has launched special tender procedures, but it is known that the transfer will take place. meanwhile, a russian admiral recently stated that if russia had mistral amphibious ships in case of russian aggression against georgia, the war with georgia would not last four or five days, but only two hours. should european union countries really sell such weapons to countries that are known to use them not for defensive but for offensive purposes? at the same time, georgia has not been able to buy defensive weapons from the european union for years, because there is a kind of embargo on the purchase of these weapons. these are double standards to be avoided.
mr. chairman, please! the production and export of arms, armaments and military technology has been, is and will be the subject of many debates and will remain a difficult topic to discuss, a controversial and debatable issue. there has always been, and can be, suspicion of fomenting conflict and destabilising regions. the control of arms exports, as the previous speakers have stressed, is also difficult. on the other hand, the arms industry is an important economic sector for many member states of the european union. arms are exported by france, the united kingdom, germany, poland, the czech republic, and many other countries, as well as by the united states, russia, and other non-european union countries. we are therefore very far from a situation in which the production and export of arms will become a matter of community policy. member states have a great deal of autonomy in this area today, but they should nevertheless harmonise their legislation in line with the 2008 council common position. a brief remark on the mistral - our colleagues in france should understand the concerns of the baltic states or poland. russian generals say that maybe these ships will be stationed in the baltic. the baltic sea is the sea over which, apart from russia, only the countries of the european union lie.
mr. chairman, please! mr kariņša's question is very valid and has been raised several times in the foreign affairs committee. the members did not receive a satisfactory answer. the council must therefore take certain steps in this matter to satisfy those who have asked, especially since the context has been given, which has been mentioned here several times by both members kelama and czarnecki, namely how military commanders in russia treat this type of weapon, and in particular offensive weapons such as the mistral ships. it must make you think that this is not just a sale operation, but also raises the question of what the consequences of that sale would be. we are aware that the 2008 directive applies, but we also have to accept that sometimes life is richer than the provisions of the directive and the regulations that have been in place. the case of the settlement of the conflict in georgia, which is of interest to the european union and which has not been resolved, shows that such a decision is needed here.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw attention to the fact that arms exports are always linked to the union's security policy. arms exports are not an autonomous or isolated sphere. it's not just military or financial, because behind the export is the profit of the companies, and it's always linked to politics. i would therefore like to support those who call for a debate in the council on the union's policy on military exports and cooperation. for example, we have a lot of comments and doubts about the export of mistral-class ships to moscow, but if we look at it differently and think about, for example, the construction of a european missile defense system, i think it would be in our interest to have russia participate as well. so, in short, things are not so obvious.
mr president, listening to this debate i would like to share with you that for many years i was director-general of a polish ngo which promoted poland’s joining the european union, supported a ‘yes’ in the referendum and ran many programmes on political education, democracy etc. we also had our sponsors in poland and abroad. they were private persons, businesses, political foundations and also various european union programmes, and of course we were obliged to declare the sources of our money and the sums received. this was also true for all money we got from the eu budget. it would never occur to me to see this as any kind of discrimination or as hampering us in any way. when it comes to this discussion, i am sorry to say we are losing ourselves in debates that are based on outdated documents. we are losing the big picture, and that is what we really need. this is about standards, this is about democracy, the democracy based on active citizens often organised in lively, dynamic ngos. transparency is a standard of democracy, and a bill or any legal document that requires transparency for any private or public funding should be praised, and not condemned, in this chamber. maybe rather we should also encourage reporting on private donors. why should transparency hamper activity, weaken the situation of ngos, discriminate? why do we need transparency? these are the questions we should ask ourselves for any organisation in the world that we support. israel is a democratic state. there was a lively discussion in the knesset about this draft bill, which resulted in last august’s bill. so, thanking commissioner füle for all the information that he has provided us, i can only wish him, the commission and all of us, further continuing, developing, good cooperation between the european union and israel.
mr. chairman, please! they say in banking contracts, you have to read what's written at the bottom in small letters. in the question we're going to be discussing today, you have to read what's at the very end of the question. the authors ask what impact this debate will have on the future of the eu's relations with israel. i say: a very positive impact, because we are saying today that there is a partner in the middle east, there is democracy, there are people who want to look after european money, they want to look after how it is spent. it's the only country in the region that cares about european money like that. millions of euros disappear without a trace just outside the country, and it is not known what was financed with them. if we have a moment of satisfaction today, it's because we're promoting israeli democracy. we say this is a democratic country, that we're building a democracy by our standards. the european parliament has achieved something extraordinary in this debate. we have been in good faith defending israeli ngos who feel no threat and we are defending against a law that has not yet been enacted. i'd like to think that's a good sign from the debate.
president of the council. − the council working party on social issues is still examining the commission's proposal for a new directive to implement the principle of equal treatment of persons, irrespective of religion, belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. the adoption of this directive requires the unanimity of the member states. the presidency has put a lot of effort into this initiative by successive presidencies and at this stage the presidency is not yet in a position to anticipate the duration of the negotiations and therefore the outcome of these negotiations.
i would like to thank you for the information, but unfortunately it was very general. the minister has spoken of the right things, but i would like to ask a specific question: are there any additional funds for training for the disabled, and to what extent? without additional resources, without financial support at european level, it will be very difficult to help these people.
i would like to refer to the question that was asked just now. the construction of the tnt network is of fundamental importance for european integration. it's very expensive, so it has to be done very consistently. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial instruments of the european union are used to finance the union's external action.
president of the council. - i would simply like to say that belgium, which is currently holding the presidency of the union, is a member of the human rights council and will of course do its utmost to convey your concern.
president of the council. - there are already plans for reinforcements in new york and geneva, but i can only draw your attention, through your question, to the urgent need to set up the european external action service and to the at least joint role of this parliament, particularly in relation to the financial aspect of the establishment of this service.
president of the council. − on the basis of the commission communication entitled 'possible options for post-2010 with regard to the european union's biodiversity perspective and objectives', the council adopted on 15 march 2010 conclusions entitled 'biodiversity: post-2010 vision and objectives at eu and global level, and international access and benefit-sharing regime'. in its conclusions, the council expressed its serious concern that the 2010 biodiversity targets have not been met at eu and global level, that biodiversity loss is continuing at an unacceptable rate and that it has very serious ecological, economic and social consequences. however, he stressed that these objectives played an essential role in enabling useful measures to be put in place to promote biodiversity. it set out a long-term vision that by 2050 biodiversity in the european union and the ecosystem services it provides, its natural capital, will be protected, valued and restored in an appropriate manner, taking into account the intrinsic value of biodiversity and its essential contribution to human well-being and economic prosperity, in such a way that catastrophic changes caused by biodiversity loss are avoided. it also set a headline target of halting biodiversity loss and the degradation of ecosystem services in the european union by 2020, ensuring their restoration as far as possible, while enhancing the eu's contribution to preventing biodiversity loss globally. in the context of the eu's priorities for the protection and enhancement of biodiversity, the council noted that the destruction, fragmentation and degradation of habitats are the main threats to biodiversity. as regards the origin of this habitat situation, the council highlighted the harmful change in land use, the over-exploitation and unsustainable use of natural resources, invasive alien species, the illicit trade in endangered species, ocean acidification and, of course, pollution. climate change could also, increasingly, even exacerbate some of the effects, for example, on the number of species threatened with extinction. with regard to the europe 2020 strategy, the council's broad economic policy guidelines call on the member states and the union to put measures in place, to turn environmental challenges into growth opportunities and to use natural resources more efficiently, thus also contributing to ensuring biodiversity. the role of biodiversity was also clearly underlined by the european council in its conclusions of march 2010, when it stated that there is an urgent need to reverse the persistent trend of biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation. the european council endorses the long-term vision for biodiversity by 2050 and the 2020 target set out in the council conclusions of 15 march 2010 referred to above.
president of the council. - i think the best way to safeguard quality work in our agriculture is to continue to support it. i am counting on all the members present - even if there are not many of them - to support the common agricultural policy financially in the decisions this parliament will take in the next budgetary debate.
president of the council. − first of all, i would like to congratulate the commission on the success of its public consultation on the post-2013 common agricultural policy, with almost 6 000 contributions received from the general public, stakeholders and think tanks and other research institutes. this consultation has delivered on all its promises. the overview of the contributions also showed the interest of our society as a whole in the future of european agriculture. the cap is far from being the sole concern of farmers. as you know, this public consultation led to the conference on the cap after 2013, which the commission organised on 19 and 20 july last. the summary of contributions, round tables and debates held at the conference are a valuable contribution to further focusing the reflection. as far as the council is concerned, you know that the agriculture ministers have been engaged in a process of reflection over the last two years, spearheaded by the successive presidencies of france, the czech republic, sweden and spain. now that we are in the final strait, the presidency wishes to take our debate as far as possible. it is essential that the realities of the cap today and the challenges of the cap tomorrow are properly assessed in this other major debate, the debate on the union's budgetary framework for the period 2014-2020. as you know, the future of the cap will be the central theme of the informal meeting of agriculture ministers to be held in belgium from 19 to 21 september. the chairman of your committee on agriculture, mr de castro, has been invited to this meeting to guide our informal discussions. the presidency has given considerable thought this summer to the results of the july conference and has prepared a note which will be finalised in the very next few days. the assessment made by the presidency, which we intend to go into in more detail in our next discussions, confirms the relevance of the objectives of the cap as reaffirmed in the lisbon treaty: ensuring the supply of safe and quality food for european citizens, maintaining sustainable agriculture throughout the european territory, protecting the environment and landscapes and contributing to the sustainable development of rural areas we discussed in the previous question. the presidency's assessment also confirms the real added value of a common agricultural policy at european level and the importance of the cap in the context of the europe 2020 strategy. the next round of discussions will be followed in october by a final policy debate on the future of the cap at the agriculture council. the council, like the european parliament, will thus have made a significant contribution to the process of reflection. i am sure that the commission is also reflecting on the good work done by the council and the european parliament. i am sure that she will make every effort to present a communication which will have the support of both institutions. as soon as the communication is available, the presidency will launch the debate in the council. as regards the negotiations on a free trade agreement with the mercosur countries, i would first of all like to point out, while being aware of the major economic importance of such an agreement, that the european parliament's committee on agriculture and the agriculture ministers share, to a large extent, the same view as to the potential risks that such an agreement poses to the sensitive sectors of european agriculture. as you are aware, last may the council took note of the concerns expressed by a significant number of member states in a joint note. i would also like to point out that the commission is obliged to respect the negotiating mandate. in may, commissioner cioloş also assured the council that the commission would ensure that the negotiations with mercosur were compatible with the common agricultural policy and the essential interests of european agriculture. in conclusion, i would like to stress that the council will continue to follow the discussions with mercosur with the utmost vigilance, particularly in the committee on trade policy. the next negotiating session is scheduled for october next year and i can assure you that the presidency will ensure that the negotiating mandate is strictly adhered to.
president of the council. - a number of member states want to reduce next year's budget. but as far as i know, the council agreement does not go in that direction at all. you will probably have heard yesterday the belgian minister responsible for the budget presenting the 2011 budget and you will therefore have heard the budgetary outlook for 2011, since the discussion is beginning with parliament. i must say that i do not share your analysis of the evolution of the european budget.
president of the council. - the first question concerns the general statement of the budget which is currently available. i can understand that parliament is keen on a number of projects in the fields of innovation, competition and technology, but the debate is only just beginning and you have the opportunity, since 1 december last, to amend a number of budgetary perspectives for the coming year. i therefore refer you back to the budget debate to see what priorities, what emphases the european parliamentarians want to put in this budget. as regards the second question concerning mercosur, the presidency, as i have said, is fully aware of the concerns expressed by the committee on agriculture and rural development about the decision to reopen these negotiations. i would simply like to point out that in these negotiations the commission is bound by its negotiating mandate and that any positive conclusion of these negotiations should bring benefits for the union's agriculture, for example in the field of the promotion and protection of european agricultural products and particularly with regard to geographical indications.
president of the council. − the objective of our policy towards the western balkans region is to contribute to the stability of the region and to help the countries of the region to establish lasting peace, democracy, stability and prosperity. in 1999, the union decided to implement the stabilisation and association process - the framework for the accession process until the possible accession of these countries - to better align the european perspective of these countries. this perspective remains essential for stability, reconciliation and the future of the region. it is being developed and implemented in accordance with the thessaloniki agenda and the renewed consensus on enlargement, which establishes fair and rigorous conditionality. the council has therefore repeatedly reaffirmed the european union's unequivocal commitment to the european perspective of the western balkan countries, including most recently at the foreign affairs council on 14 june following the meeting in sarajevo on 2 june. over the years, the union has signed six stabilisation and association agreements with the countries of the region, four of which have already entered into force. in october 2009, the commission proposed to open accession negotiations with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the accession negotiations with croatia, which have been ongoing since october 2005, are in their final stages. politically, the union remains committed with all its instruments - three common security and defence policy missions, two in bosnia and herzegovina and one in kosovo, and three special representatives in the region, in skopje, pristina and sarajevo. the financial assistance will amount to over eur 900 million in 2010 and will reach eur 1 billion in 2013. in total, the european union's financial assistance to the countries of the region has exceeded 13 billion since 1991. as regards the dates of accession, they are entirely dependent on compliance with the copenhagen criteria for accession and the conditions set by the stabilisation and association process. this process has established a clear sequence: stability and association agreement, commission opinion on the application for accession, candidate status, accession negotiations and finally accession. the council looks forward to the next steps in the process, but it is up to the governments of the countries in the region to respect the conditions set, to continue - or even to step up - the pace of necessary reforms and to address the major challenges. the states of the region should increase their efforts in the fight against corruption and organised crime, in strengthening administrative capacity and in resolving outstanding issues. the objectives of the stabilisation and association process can only be achieved if the peoples and governments of the region take an active, responsible and determined part in it. the future of the region ultimately depends on its peoples and governments themselves. regional cooperation and the good neighbour policy contribute to reconciliation and the settlement of bilateral disputes. these policies are at the heart of the union's approach to the region and have been systematically promoted by the union since 1995. in this context, on 14 june the council called on the countries concerned to settle outstanding issues with neighbouring countries. i would like to conclude by recalling that in november 2009 the council decided to liberalize visas for citizens of three countries in the region and is preparing an identical decision for citizens of albania and bosnia and herzegovina. i hope that the european parliament and the council will take this decision again this year. finally, as regards the impact of enlargement on the union's budget in the current period and over the period 2014-2020, the council cannot comment at this stage, as it is still awaiting the commission's proposal on the next financial perspective.
madam president! thank you very much for the excellent way you conducted our proceedings. it's an example for others. mr. minister, i don't know if i should take off my jacket to make you more comfortable. there's a certain asymmetry between us. what you said is really well known in this room, and i would expect a very specific answer. who is closer to the european union: serbia, which is very important politically, montenegro, which is very well developed economically, or macedonia? i would ask the minister for a specific answer.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. today's exchange of views indicates that the debate on the legal regulation of animal cloning will be difficult. i think with this modern technology of food production, we're doing a little bit of jumping into a pool without checking to see if there's water in it. this includes genetic modification, genetically modified crops and cloning. science has not told us everything. we have great scientific potential, but we don't have a full picture of the far-reaching implications of the use of new technologies, what it will do to biodiversity, to the balance of species and to human and animal health. there are signs that cloning is not good for their health, that they are not healthy animals, that it often involves suffering. so let's be careful about these things. we don't know enough yet to take that kind of risk. i therefore support the continuing ban on the cloning of animals for meat production in the european union.
mr. chairman, please! high and rigorous standards for food production in the union are about ensuring high quality products and meeting consumer expectations. the scientific research available today proves that the meat of cloned animals is no different in quality from that of conventionally bred animals. yet the very cloning and use of such technologies in food production is a very serious problem. with today's available food technologies, do we have to resort to cloning? it is therefore in the interests of farmers, food producers and consumers that these issues are regulated in such a way that they not only do not endanger food safety, consumer health or the competitiveness of european agriculture. the ethical and moral dilemmas that will arise if citizens of a united europe have to eat dishes made from the meat of cloned animals should also be taken into account.
on behalf of the ecr group. in the previous term, i was twice rapporteur for the regulation on the fixing of the amount of starch quotas. i met with representatives of the sector many times and tried to take account of the wishes of countries that were not satisfied with the low amounts. we have pointed out that this sector is in a very delicate equilibrium which must not be disturbed, otherwise the whole industry would be in great trouble. today we hear about the threat or even the liquidation of this entire industry, which i am very afraid of. i am saddened to see the continuing problems of the major sectors: the problems in the dairy sector, the almost complete closure of the tobacco industry and, earlier, the reform of the sugar market, which also had disastrous consequences for farmers. now these problems are affecting the potato starch sector. i think it is high time to rethink the direction of change in the agricultural policy of the european union, which has been set in a slightly different reality than the present one. i doubt that the principle that was followed then is still valid.
mr. chairman, please! we have been producing starch potatoes on my farm for many years and, like many tens of thousands of growers across the european union, i fear that the abolition of the starch quotas and the withdrawal of support for this production, directed both to producers and processors, will cause a drastic deterioration of their economic situation in 2013. i therefore support the continuation of the quota system for potato starch production, with a guarantee of a minimum price and additional payments for agricultural producers. the possible liquidation of these instruments in the starch sector must be linked to the provision of adequate financial support for restructuring. the commissioner's reference to sugar reform is unfortunate, because it has proved to be a european failure and has really only helped the latin american latifundistas. this is not the way, commissioner, there's still time to reason.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, we create community law where it is needed. this law must be correctly implemented in the legal systems of the member states, and it must be clear, transparent and understandable to citizens. but in practice, it doesn't seem that simple. european law is often described as confusing, imprecise and leaving too much room for interpretation. the widespread delays in transposing legislation have led to the creation of article 260 of the lisbon treaty, a provision that makes it easier for the european commission to punish countries for failing to implement community law properly and in a timely manner. in this context, i welcomed with great interest the idea of smart regulation put forward by president barroso, the political guidelines a year ago. in encouraging the commission to pursue the smart regulation agenda and taking advantage of the presence of its representatives here today, i would like to ask what is happening in this regard? how has the commission implemented it? i hope that wasn't just a fancy technocratic slogan. another thing that president barroso has promised is an ex post evaluation. i agree that we should pay more attention to what happens to eu law once it has been adopted. is it being implemented correctly and, if not, why are there delays? is it understandable to the public? if european law does not have a positive impact on the economy, the environment and society, then all our work is meaningless. hence the question to the commission: what happens to the ex post evaluation? how does it differ from the enforcement mechanisms used so far? another issue is the impact assessment that accompanies every new law proposal. parliament has repeatedly pointed out that the commission, when proposing new legislation, must carry out a detailed analysis of its implementation based on reliable data. in my report i looked at the problem of impact assessment from two perspectives: firstly, the content, i.e. what consequences the commission should examine from the proposed legal acts. i would urge the commission to pay particular attention to the social impact of its initiatives. answers to questions such as the impact of a given legislative proposal on the european labour market, on employment in particular age groups and sectors, are particularly important in the context of the economic crisis. i think that, up to now, this aspect has not been sufficiently analysed. on the other hand, i would like to address the issue of the independence of impact assessments, which is closely linked to the issue of better lawmaking. in the report i stress the need to ensure full independence and adequate resources for the body which monitors the quality of impact assessments, and which, i would remind you, was set up in response to parliament's requests. i am referring to the impact assessment board, which is composed of the highest officials of the commission and reports to its president. at the same time, i am very cautious about hiring external experts to assess the impact, because parliament is not really in a position to control their independence. i also refer to the programme for reducing administrative burdens in the report. the european union is too often associated with complex and unnecessary bureaucracy. i am therefore pleased that the commission is planning to reduce these charges by up to 33% by 2012. however, i have also been receiving signals that in some cases the exemption of companies from administrative duties leads to lower standards, for example in relation to occupational safety. i therefore urge the commission to look at the problem in a global way. reducing administrative costs cannot be at the expense of lowering social standards in the european union. i also refer to the work of the high level group on administrative burdens, chaired by mr stauber. i am positive about the work of the group so far and welcomed the extension of its mandate until 2013. i hope that parliament will be informed of how the group assesses the implementation of the programme to reduce administrative burdens at european union level. finally, i would like to refer to the issues related to the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, and specifically to the practical aspects of deepening contacts with national parliaments and implementing the citizens' initiative. i hope that interparliamentary cooperation will not only cover issues relating to the control of the subsidiarity principle, but will also contribute to a better transposition of european law. as for the citizens' initiative, i think there are millions of citizens waiting for parliament's position on this issue. i understand that the committee on constitutional affairs is working intensively on this issue and i hope that the first reading of the document will take place later this year. i'm hoping for a productive discussion now.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, allow me to start by thanking mrs geringer de oedenberg for an excellent report. she will see from my introductory remarks that the commission fully agrees with most of it. we very much like the effort and strong emphasis the european parliament puts on smart regulation because this is clearly the way forward. i am very glad to announce to you today that on tuesday the commission took the final steps to withdraw 59 pending proposals listed in the 2010 work programmes which we will not pursue any more because we see that they are outdated or have outlived their initial purpose. this is also how we are honouring the commitment we undertook in our framework agreement negotiations. i would also like to confirm to you that the commission will adopt a communication on smart regulation on 6 october, as well as the annual report on better lawmaking where we will be dealing in a detailed manner with subsidiarity issues. i believe that these documents will address in detail the issues raised by mrs geringer de oedenberg in her report, so i will just limit myself to some key points. the first point on which i think we all agree, and the financial crisis is clear proof of that, is that regulation has a positive and necessary role in assuring that markets deliver sustainable prosperity for all. at the same time, i totally agree with mrs geringer de oedenberg that we need to be very careful how we legislate because we do not want to overburden businesses, and especially smes, with unnecessary administrative burdens. we are doing our utmost to reduce the administrative burden in existing legislation and also in the legislation we are preparing. we are going to work very hard to pursue the four main activities related to smart regulation. we are going to continue with impact assessments. we are going to do our utmost to further improve quality. we are going to simplify legislation which is already on the books. we will continue our efforts to reduce administrative burdens for businesses, and we are also going to evaluate regulations which are already in place to see how efficient this legislation is. i have to say that we have some disagreements and shall limit myself to two issues. the first relates to the independent body accountable to parliament. we are pleased at how the impact assessments are being done within the commission. the commission, as you know very well, is accountable to the european parliament, so parliament as a legislator is the body which in the end controls the quality of legislation. the second issue is recasting. you know we have exchanges of opinions between the commission and parliament reflected in the exchange of letters between our presidents, where we see that the current situation which arose after the changes to the european parliament rules of procedure raised questions about the use of the recasting technique. ultimately, if this situation persists, the use of recasting for simplification initiatives and for amending existing legislation will no longer make sense. otherwise, i think we have very strong agreement on other matters and our mutual goal is to legislate smartly, efficiently and in a way that is very good for our citizens and our businesses.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs. - mr president! - what are you doing? first of all, i would like to congratulate and thank the rapporteur for the very good cooperation she has shown in the preparation of this report. i am also pleased that my opinion, which was prepared in the afco committee, was very widely taken into account in the final form of this document. over the years of the communities and then the european union, we have come to realise that a single community regulation for all member states is more effective in a world of free movement of goods, services and people than complex, and very often extremely complex, legislation at the level of 27 member states. however, new and existing rules should not create further barriers for those who benefit from them. they should regulate life, not prevent it. the basic idea is to simplify eu law and create a friendly legal environment that will make it easier for citizens to function in this tangle of european regulations. however, this should in no way lead to a lowering of the existing standards in this area, but on the contrary, should lead to their raising. this year's report highlights a number of changes brought into force by the lisbon treaty for the union that will have a significant impact on the whole eu legislative process. the increased role of the european parliament, the european legislative initiative and the further reduction of administrative burdens for smes will naturally draw the attention of union citizens to the process itself, its quality and efficiency. the greater involvement of the parliament in the eu legislative process naturally brings with it greater responsibility. citizens will thus see parliament as an institution with a real impact on the law it creates and will therefore look more closely at our parliamentary work. therefore, another important issue is to ensure an independent, comprehensive impact assessment. the rapporteur and i differ on this point in the commission's view of the matter. but we all want to have an objective and reliable basis on which to set our course and to make decisions on future regulation. we must also remember that good law is one of the safeguards for the effective implementation and subsequent application of eu law in the member states, which unfortunately is still a rather serious problem throughout the european union.
mr. chairman, congratulations on the report. it rightly stresses the need to make the law simple, transparent and understandable to citizens. but we ourselves, here in the european parliament, are calling for this, and we are preparing reports, declarations and resolutions in language which is very complex and difficult for ordinary citizens to understand. many of the documents prepared are written in illegible legal language. the resolutions in which we inform third countries of our values and speak about human rights violations are also drafted in this language. i therefore think that parliament should join the commission's clear writing campaign. this action provides information on how to prepare documents so that they are legible.
the rapporteur. - in conclusion, i would like to thank all my colleagues and the commissioner for a fruitful discussion. i am delighted to have had the opportunity to work on the better regulation report this year, the first year after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and the year of the adoption by the council of the european strategy eu 2020. both documents will have an impact on many aspects of better lawmaking, and the report was a good opportunity to address them. in preparing this report, i met with a wide range of stakeholders, seeking to hear from business and labour, trade unions and organisations such as the etuc. i think that the absolute unanimity in the vote in the legal affairs committee shows that we have managed to find a reasonable compromise between the expectations of all the political groups. i would like to thank all my colleagues for their excellent cooperation and i would like to add that this was an exceptional cooperation, because it was above political level, which is rare in this house. i also hope that the vote in plenary today will be a success.
in writing. every year we debate how to make the union a better place to rule. only clear, consistent and transparent legislation can guarantee their effective implementation in the member states. in the area of reducing administrative burdens, the communication from the commission 2006-2010 and the strategy 2010 to modernise european administrations are particularly important. electronic communication is our reality and our future. with electronic communications, we can save time, eliminate many administrative barriers, reduce the consumption of natural resources and thus better protect the environment. we must therefore concentrate our efforts and resources on its promotion, bearing in mind the facilities and assistance for the disabled and the elderly. we regularly call on the european commission to simplify and speed up the procedure for using additional eu instruments, such as the european globalisation adjustment fund and the eu solidarity fund. the response of the union institutions to natural disasters or serious economic difficulties in the member states remains too inflexible and too delayed. it is high time that the development of new instruments did not repeat the shortcomings of the past. the effectiveness of the law is not only affected by the creation of clear and understandable rules, but equally by their dissemination and implementation.
in writing. we have a big challenge ahead of us, which fits perfectly with the theme of the report. it is the handing over of the european citizens' initiative, an instrument that gives citizens the opportunity to directly influence the european agenda. in the debate on this subject, we all talk about the need to simplify this instrument as much as possible so that citizens actually feel that they have a real chance of successfully implementing their demands and are not stuck in the complexities of eu procedures. on the other hand, however, we want to protect this instrument from abuse and also to protect the european commission from being overburdened. there's a tension between the idea of maximizing simplicity and maintaining certain standards, and our role is to find that balance.
mr. chairman, please! we are discussing a very important step, an important decision, towards the liberalisation of postal services in the european union, towards healthy competition. such a decision is the directive on the full implementation of the internal market and community postal services. we must do everything we can to ensure that it is introduced correctly and in time in all the member states. the commissioner's statement makes it clear that he will work closely with the member states on this issue. i very much welcome the commission's decision to set up a european postal regulatory group, bringing together national regulators in the sector. i believe it will help consolidate the postal service. the opening up of the postal markets of the member states to independent operators is another very important issue and i welcome with optimism any concrete solutions that the european commission may take, as we have heard here. these solutions are intended to allow independent operators to operate freely in the individual member states. i welcome the plans for the continuous monitoring of the implementation of this directive. there is another theme: european identity needs clear symbols. such symbols are the common currency, the flag, the anthem, but equally the symbol of european identity would be zero roaming in the european union and a common postage stamp. wouldn't it be worth considering such solutions?
in writing. i would like to start with poland, which is in a privileged position because it has been given a two-year transition period. i am pointing this out because it will give us the opportunity to refine some of the solutions and mechanisms used by the other countries. it should be noted that postal items up to 50 grams, of which a significant amount is sent by post, will be fully exempted, although these are often items of official and judicial status, which are carried out in the context of tasks entrusted to the state. the question therefore arises as to how the commission intends to influence the states to allow the various providers to provide such important services in the context of liberalisation, while maintaining the balance and the security of the state and its citizens. the very notion of adequate social protection is also a cause for concern. postal service companies are usually large companies with a large number of employees. does an aggressive pricing policy and therefore a cost-cutting policy not result in a significant reduction in the number of employees? on the other hand, the quality of service itself raises the question of whether price issues do not affect the lowering of standards. the services and their provision also depend on the reception and transmission facilities, their quantity and availability. in large agglomerations, i am not concerned, but small towns, especially rural areas, may be almost deprived of postal services.
dear colleagues, i have some sad information for you. i wish to say a few words. mr angelo vassallo, aged 57, mayor of pollica in the campania region of italy, was murdered last sunday night by the camorra on his way home. he was better known as the ‘environmental mayor’ for his great work to improve the natural environment in his region. mr vassallo always fought against the infiltration of organised crime in his municipality. he had a fantastic human touch in his relations with his citizens. we must not underestimate the role of organised crime in some of our member states. we should stand together in solidarity to root this evil out of our societies, so that angelo vassallo’s death will not have been in vain. i would ask you to stand for one minute’s silence in his memory.
mr. chairman, please! i voted for the resolution that won the majority of votes in parliament. this resolution is about the essence of the law, which very clearly states that none of the sanctions can be linked to nationality. responsibility must always be individual and that is the basis of the law. roma should be treated in the same way as other citizens of the union. it also means that they are subject to the law and if they break it, they must be held accountable on equal terms. it cannot be that the claim of nationality is to exclude liability for breaking the law. the point is that nationality should never determine the sanctions to be taken, which should always be individual.
mr. chairman, please! in connection with the resolution on long-term care for the elderly, i would like to express my full support for the concern for this matter. in the face of the adverse demographic changes affecting the old continent, urgent action in this area seems necessary. in addition to activating the elderly and providing them with the care they need, the people who provide care must not be forgotten. often these are people who are on their own, because in addition to caring for the elderly, they must also work. it's not easy to reconcile. i'm talking about rural families, who are the ones who tend to take care of their infirm family members. the legal status of these people should be regulated to encourage others to care for the elderly who want to age with dignity. i think we all would.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. in poland, there's a saying that you can't be partially pregnant, and that's what kenya is trying to keep. on the one hand, he invites and welcomes president bashir, and on the other hand, he is a signatory of the rome statute. these two facts are irreconcilable. you have to make a decision. you either go after the criminals or you don't, or you let them live in peace. pretending that you can reconcile this alternative is just plain dishonest. the kenyan authorities' argument that the east is not kenya's neighbour and that president bashir has been invited is unacceptable because it does not refer to any prior formal, political and moral commitments. the authorities of kenya, chad and other countries that have ratified the rome statute should follow clearly defined rules. i can imagine that someone is a supporter of impunity, but i can't imagine and accept that someone pretends to want to go after criminals and doesn't.
on behalf of the s&d group. history shows that justice eventually reaches war criminals, even if they initially escape justice and miscarry the pursuit. adolf eichmann, one of the organizers of the nazi operation to exterminate the jews, was captured in buenos aires after 15 years of searching. radowan karadzic was captured by serbian police 13 years after the srebrenica massacre. the same scenario is surely in store for sudanese president omar al-bashir, the architect of the ethnic cleansing in darfur, who has been wanted by the international criminal court since march last year. what can the european union do to help bring al-bashir to justice? first of all, to put pressure on the states signatory to the rome statute, which is the legal basis for the tribunal's activities. we cannot allow a repeat of august 27th, when president al-baszir, unharmed by police, arrived in kenya, a signatory to the rome statute, to celebrate the adoption of a new constitution and then returned safely to sudan. the eu must use all diplomatic channels and the active participation of the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to use the tools at hand, such as regular summits of the african union and the cotonou agreement, and finally arrange for the arrest of al-bashir, who is accused of genocide.
madam president! we must strongly oppose the kenyan government's position and threaten to curtail its support for the country. it is unacceptable that sudanese president al bashir, who has been issued a second arrest warrant by the international criminal court for crimes against humanity, including murder, extermination, torture and war crimes, should be invited and received with all the honors at state ceremonies. kenya, which ratified the founding document of the international criminal court, has an obligation to arrest a wanted person or to refuse entry to a wanted person. i therefore appeal to you to change your attitude and to respect your international commitments. i call on all african states to take full responsibility for crimes against humanity and war crimes which cannot go unpunished and whose perpetrators should be brought to justice in the hague.
in writing. the european union should respond strongly to the unacceptable behaviour of the kenyan authorities, who failed to arrest the sudanese president on a wanted list while he was on their territory. omar al-bashir has been found by the international criminal court to be co-responsible for the crimes of genocide that have been committed in the province of darfur. it was the first time a sitting head of state had been indicted. omar al-bashir's atrocities have claimed thousands of lives, and many of those who survived have been forced to flee their homes and live in exile. the kenyan government has deliberately chosen to ignore its international obligations. not only did he host al-bashir at the signing ceremony of the constitution, but he took no action to have him arrested. it is clear that local interests and neighbourly solidarity have been put before the verdicts of the international criminal court. meanwhile, no one should go unpunished, especially the person responsible for crimes of this magnitude. the president of sudan should be held accountable for his actions under international law, and the kenyan authorities should have been included. the european union must make every effort to convince the african league states of the need to respect the principle of universal jurisdiction. this is not only in the interest of the authorities, but above all in the interest of the citizens of the african league.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. ms. shake was right that there are a lot of people in syria who want to see this country change. i myself, being in syria, i observed these people and listened to what they said. i think that in this case, we have to go back to the debate on tuesday on the state of the union, when one of the group leaders said that in important matters we cannot be a fax machine that spits out statements about world events. we must overcome this barrier and not just talk - and we talk a lot in parliament - but we would like to see it translated into action. i am concerned about the situation of the well-known human rights defender haythan al-maleh, who was sentenced to 3 years in prison for defending human rights and openly expressing his opinion. he was repeatedly repressed by the authorities, imprisoned, accused, and persecuted. yet he never stopped working and has consistently exposed the wrongdoing of the authorities. he's not isolated in this. he is voicing the views of many syrians who want the country to change. one of the european parliament's most important objectives is to be committed to the defence of human rights. this is the case where we can't be the fax machine that produces the statement. haythan al-maleh is a prisoner of conscience, detained solely for the right to express his opinion. we cannot stand by and watch this happen, because those who elect us to speak out freely expect us to do the same. if we didn't remind ourselves of al-maleah today, what would the meaning of our elections be, what would the seriousness of our function be, how could we look our constituents in the eye in a few years? i would like to stress that when we refer to equality, justice and the rule of law, all the things we talk about all the time in a united europe, when we talk about friendship, peaceful cooperation, we cannot hide from these problems, which require a strong commitment of eu diplomacy, which require the development of forms of pressure that would allow the syrians to enjoy freedom of speech to the extent that they expect and to the extent that we enjoy it. let us share the freedom of expression, let us speak out and call on the eu institutions to be particularly effective in such matters, because the reputation of the european union depends on it.
madam president! we appeal to the syrian government, to the president of that country, to pardon the sentence and acquit the well-known lawyer, human rights defender. and rightly so, because it is the state bodies that make the decisions. but i would like to remind you of one point: not so long ago, at the end of the last parliamentary term, we had the grand mufti of syria in our chamber, and he spoke in plenary about the fact that civil liberties exist in syria and that the principles of democracy and freedom of speech are respected. perhaps we should ask him, a great authority in syria, a person with a strong public support, who can influence the government and the president, to join the fight for the release of an innocent human rights defender.
the syrian authorities' use of such arbitrary arrests and persecution of prominent human rights defenders in syria is alarming. mr. al-malehy's trial did not meet international standards of justice, including the presumption of innocence and the right to a defense. the pardon of mr al-maleh and other human rights defenders who have not been guaranteed due process would represent a change in the authorities' policy towards respecting international human rights standards and due process principles. in addition, the signing of the association agreement between the european union and syria, which has respect for human rights as a core element, was postponed at the request of syria in october 2009. in view of the situation, the european commission should report to the european parliament on the state of play of the discussions on the signing of this agreement.
in writing. i am very pleased that the issue of human rights violations in syria is being raised in the european parliament today. we can't just walk by it. i call upon the syrian government, and the president, to release mr. haitham al-maleh immediately and unconditionally. the trial of this 80-year-old syrian lawyer did not meet international standards for due process, including the right to the presumption of innocence and the right to a defense. the charges against him also violate the right to freedom of expression guaranteed by the international covenant on civil and political rights, to which syria is a party. i also call on the syrian authorities to put an end to any persecution of human rights defenders and their families and to guarantee their right to freedom of action without any hindrance or intimidation. i call on the syrian authorities to respect international human rights standards and international commitments that the country has made, which guarantee freedom of opinion and expression and the right to a fair trial, and to ensure that prisoners are well treated and are not subjected to torture or other forms of ill-treatment and are provided with immediate, regular and unrestricted access to family, lawyers and doctors.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 9 september 2010.
at the beginning of this sitting, i regret to inform you of the death of egon klepsch, former president of the european parliament from 1992 to 1994. mr egon klepsch has devoted most of his professional life to working for a united europe. he's been in our house for over two decades, nearly five terms. i would like to ask you to observe a moment of silence in memory of the late egon klepsch. (parliamentarians rise and hold a minute of silence) i also want to inform you that the book of condolences is out and you can write your condolences.
as you know, many unions have officially announced their intention to organize a strike action this coming thursday, september 23, 2010, here in france. this action will include public transportation and will begin on wednesday, september 22, at 10:00 p.m. there is also information that the strike may start two hours earlier, at 8 p.m. the conference of presidents decided that parliament would continue its work as normal and that the current part-session would end as scheduled after the vote on thursday. air and rail services, as well as public transport services, including bus and tram services, will be disrupted here in france. therefore, it may become impossible to guarantee the transport that has taken place so far. however, all necessary steps have been taken to arrange for you to be transported home safely. so the first, but not all, of the settlements have been accepted. the first arrangements are as follows: the chartered thalys train will run normally and a bus service will be provided between the european parliament and the railway station. it's been taken care of. delivery to various airports outside france will be provided by our services. the college of quaestors has already issued a communication detailing additional measures to allow for a derogation from the current 20 km limit for commercial vehicles to reach airports in switzerland and germany. the 20 km limit for the european parliament's official cars will therefore be abolished. you can drive these cars further. the commission will also be publishing a communication this week and will keep meps informed of any alternative transport options. today at 6.30 p.m. there will be a meeting of the bureau of the parliament. we will look in detail, point by point, at how to give you the best transport from the european parliament in strasbourg to your home. you will be notified by e-mail before noon tomorrow. if there's any new information on this case, i'll let you know by wednesday morning. the first comprehensive information will be sent to you by e-mail before noon tomorrow and possibly supplemented on wednesday morning. if we receive information from the strasbourg city authorities, we will also inform you immediately. we'll also be monitoring the situation at all times so that you can return home with ease. i want to remind you that this is the first information. we'll have more details tomorrow and the day after.
my friend, i would like to point out that this is not a part of today's discussion. we're just talking about the technicalities of getting there on thursday. the point you raised is a different matter altogether. it concerns treaties, agreements within the european union and is not relevant to today's issue.
that concludes our discussion of this point. i repeat, on tuesday and wednesday, we will have more details on this matter.
the minutes of 9 september 2010 were distributed. does anyone have any comments?
i understand that was a statement on protocol, as well as a personal note. that's how i treat it. he means your personal statement. are there any comments to the protocol? (the minutes of the previous sitting were approved)
the final draft agenda, drawn up in accordance with rules 130 and 131 of the rules of procedure, was distributed by the conference of presidents at its meeting on friday 17 september 2010. monday: i have received a request from the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats in the european parliament to withdraw from the agenda a short presentation of mrs gallo's report - enforcement of intellectual property rights in the internal market.
mrs gallo supports keeping this item on the agenda, but i was asking for somebody who would like to support mr martin schulz and his proposal.
i have received a request from the group of european conservatives and reformists to postpone the vote on the draft resolution on the lack of human rights and justice in the democratic republic of congo.
mr. chairman, please! we voted on one thing, and that was that there's not gonna be a vote on thursday on one thing. all the rest of it stays. there will be no vote on the lack of human rights and justice in the democratic republic of congo. there will be a discussion on this, all other points remain unchanged. there's only one vote that's not gonna happen.
the next item is the report by christine de veyrac, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the investigation and prevention of accidents and incidents in civil aviation (com (2009) 0611 - c70259/2009 - 2009/0170 (cod)) (a7-0195/2010).
that is something i would ask all members. it is very important that they leave the chamber as quickly as possible if they want to hold this debate. they can start it outside the chamber, if anyone wants to listen. mr leichtfried, i agree with you absolutely.
i think it is very clear from the outset that fortunately, the level of flight safety in europe is constantly rising. there are disasters, there are incidents, but overall, the level of security is pretty high. unfortunately, safety is not a given. occasionally, there are incidents and accidents. you have to study them very carefully. it has to be done in a completely independent and professional manner. this is to ensure that the results of these studies are used to make the most competent recommendations for the prevention of accidents and incidents in the future. the current community civil aviation accident investigation system is operating below its optimum capabilities. i therefore believe that this regulation, after the work that has taken place in parliament, has the potential to change this situation for the better. the project seems to have been very competently prepared by a team led by ms de veyrac. but i would also like to draw attention to a rather important factor here. dozens of different comments and amendments were attached to this draft. as the draft was the result of a compromise, it seems desirable to vote for what has been negotiated jointly by parliament, the commission and the council. and other conclusions that may seem particularly valid should, in my opinion, be rejected.
today we are talking about a document that is of vital importance to the more than 800 million passengers who travel by air every year within the european union. it is so important that for 16 years now, the same regulations have been in place that were in place when the movement was much smaller. we're talking about the safety of these 800 million passengers, and there's no safety without voluntary reporting by pilots and crew members. when those crew members and pilots feel safe writing and reporting about accidents and incidents that happen on board planes, then we can create that safety. this safety will not be achieved if the institutions which investigate the circumstances of aviation accidents and incidents are under pressure. the pressure from the prosecution, the judicial authorities, but also the pressure from the media, which will put pressure on these authorities, will require them to report immediately. we must ensure the safety of our european union citizens, and this is so important that the book of aviation called safety is written in the blood of air traffic victims. i feel even more responsible for the vote that will take place this week.
in writing. dear colleagues, in the context of the debate on the readmission agreement between the european community and pakistan - community agreements on readmission with third countries, i would like to draw attention to the issues related to the work on the eu-georgia agreement on the readmission of illegally residing persons. in this case, we are primarily driven by the desire to strengthen eu-georgia cooperation in order to combat illegal immigration more effectively, and we are focusing on the establishment of sufficiently rapid and effective procedures to establish the identity and ensure safe, lawful return and transit of persons who do not fulfil the conditions for entry, stay or residence in georgia or one of the eu member states or who no longer fulfil such conditions, on the basis of reciprocity. i think that such an agreement should be implemented as soon as possible, because we are not dealing with a lot of controversy here as in the case of pakistan. on the contrary, georgia respects human rights, is a signatory to the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms of 4 november 1950 and the convention relating to the status of refugees of 28 july 1951, as amended by the protocol of 31 january 1967. moreover, it is also a member of the council of europe.
first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr kazack, for his good intentions and for his attempt to write an objective report on trade relations with turkey. the most contentious issues concerning the negative aspects of bilateral relations have been included in the text, which is why i think the report is good. the most important thing is that turkey continues to bring its economic law in line with european union standards. the commission considers that the measures in question constitute state aid within the meaning of article 107 (1) of the treaty. complex procedures and formalities, obstacles to the free movement of goods or tariff barriers, and the continuing delay in the implementation of the additional protocol hamper dialogue. only the full implementation of all agreed arrangements will contribute to the development of positive trade relations and facilitate the process of accession to the european union. i trust that turkey will succeed and i wish it success in implementing further reforms.
the history of turkey-eu relations spans nearly 50 years and is full of ups and downs, moments of close cooperation and moments of breakdown. for more than a decade we have been linked by a customs union, which is the foundation of our economic and trade cooperation, and which, as mr metin kazaka's report shows, has not been fully implemented. the obstacles are on both sides and both turkey and the member states must be called upon to remove them. turkey is slowly becoming a major player in a region that is crucial to us, without which it will be impossible to diversify gas sources, gas supplies or stabilize the situation in the middle east. it's going to be more and more important for us to work together. ankara is becoming a focus of china's interest as a gateway to the middle east and the caucasus. if we do not overcome the obstacles to trade between us, we may end up losing turkey, just as we lost africa. the signs of fatigue are already starting to show with the continuous postponement of the accession decision, the issuing of ambiguous statements. the turkish public is becoming reluctant to join the union, as recent opinion polls show. the full implementation of the customs union, with strong trade and economic links, could be an instrument for closer relations, especially as turkey's prospects for membership of the community are still unclear.
the united nations general assembly has designated 2010 as the international year of biodiversity. this year's celebrations are an opportunity to launch a global campaign to raise public awareness of biodiversity. according to the april 2010 eurobarometer, only 38% of respondents knew the definition of biodiversity. it is necessary to highlight the importance of biodiversity for the quality of human life, to showcase the achievements of the past in the field of the conservation of natural resources and to encourage further increased efforts to prevent the loss of biodiversity. heritage days are very popular, usually those relating to historical heritage, buildings, patrimony. i think that this is an initiative that the commission could take to create natural heritage days, to increase the visibility and the importance of biodiversity. i also think and would like to ask that, as the nagoya conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity approaches, it is necessary for the european union to present its position on the post-2020 biodiversity strategy, and this will concern both financial policy and the common agreement between the eu countries on the aspects that should be implemented in future in the member states' legislation.
i would like to congratulate mrs de lange on her excellent report. our discussion of biodiversity is very important, but it seems that we are missing one very important thread in it, and that is genetically modified crops. this is a great threat to biodiversity. there's still not much of it in europe, but we're under pressure to allow more. this is a very dangerous vision. this is a vision of agriculture as very dangerous to biodiversity. if we were to have these large genetically modified monoculture crops, we would pay the price of biodiversity loss. the european union must therefore defend itself against this. it is probably not politically possible at the moment, as i know the positions of the various groups, to have a ban throughout the union, but we should certainly consider withdrawing european subsidies for areas covered by genetically modified crops. no, this should be funded with eu money.
polish public opinion is concerned about the situation of the ongoing investigation in russia into the crash of the polish presidential plane that crashed near smolensk on april 10. the situation where the russian side does not provide documents does so very carelessly, does so clearly by playing for time is an unacceptable situation. i believe that this investigation should be internationalised so that the european union, and the european parliament, can be a factor in speeding up this investigation and increasing international pressure on russia. because i fear that without this international pressure, without pressure from the european parliament, the european union, this matter will never be clarified. hence the call for some solidarity with poland on this issue.
thank you for your vote. i would like to use it to condemn the burmese junta and its election commission, which last week announced the dissolution of the national league for democracy and nine other political parties. the national league for democracy is a group headed by aung san suu kyi, winner of the sakharov prize awarded by our chamber. she is a supporter of dialogue between the junta and the opposition, as she demonstrated in 2000 when she negotiated with the generals on the gradual withdrawal of the military from political life. unfortunately, these talks did not lead to a breakthrough. myanmar's november election will be the first since 1990, when the military junta refused to accept a crushing victory for the opposition and placed aung san suu kyi under house arrest. the european parliament should send a clear signal of our opposition to the military regime, the violation of human rights and the lack of respect for basic civil liberties in burma.
first of all, i would like to thank mrs gallo for her good and balanced report. a report that confirms that the european union respects the rights of creators and authors and protects the most creative area in europe. this is a challenge that fits perfectly with the european commission's communication on the digital agenda for europe, which also addresses issues of orphaned and out-of-print works. i would like to say that today's report is a balancing act. it does not treat piracy and counterfeiting very strictly, because it largely introduces a preventive system to make citizens, who often unknowingly break the law, aware that the issue of copyright is fundamental and important. i would like to say that today - and this is also a reference to mr echeverría's report - we need a good commercial model which, on the one hand, protects copyright and creators and, on the other, allows people to buy works, literary works, films at a sustainable price. i think this report should be seen as a starting point for further discussions, but the issue of copyright protection and the most creative system is very well represented here and i would like to thank the rapporteur very much for that.
in writing. intellectual property is a broad concept covering both patent law, the right to use designs and trademarks (logos) and copyright law. the report is limited to piracy by exploitation of copyright, and mainly of another's trademark. the aim is to enforce the control rules by: 1. setting up an observatory; 2. applying administrative procedures; 3. appropriate intergovernmental agreements. a trade mark serves to distinguish the goods or services of one trader from the same goods of another trader. unfair competition may seek to exploit the reputation of a product or service in the marketplace. all the proposed methods of fighting piracy are the expansion of a kind of "police" at the expense of the taxpayer. rather, the need to strengthen customs offices is mainly to better detect the threat of harmful plant protection products, counterfeit medicines, harmful food and feed. liberals on the one hand want to weaken the state, which is supposed to be cheap, and on the other hand they want to make it a monopoly, and this can be solved by associations representing industries. the state should be the only party to settle any disputes. to this end, the following community laws should be developed and enforced: - patent law, - law on registered designs and trademarks, - copyright law. there is also a need to better monitor the community customs border and the excessive, competitive flow of goods from third countries and their quality.
the next item is the report by alejo vidala-quadrasa, drawn up on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on measures to safeguard the security of natural gas supply and repealing directive 2004/67/ec (com ((2009) 0363 - c7-0097/2009 - 2009/0108 (cod)) (a7-0112/2010).
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. gas is an important factor in our energy policy and the strategy is clear: we want, firstly, an efficient european legal framework for the security of gas supply; secondly, we want to diversify our sources and routes of import; we want to continue to build and expand the necessary infrastructure; and we need a common line when it comes to european interests with our energy partners and transit countries, all on the basis of a functioning internal market. the gas crisis of january last year, but also the developments in june between moscow and minsk, strengthen us in pursuing our gas strategy. i am therefore grateful that, on the basis of the commission's proposal, negotiations in parliament and with the member states have been conducted and constructively concluded within only one year. good news for businesses and citizens in the european union! i would like to thank the european parliament in particular and you, mr vidal-quadras, for your active participation. they were convinced of the result and they achieved it convincingly. i also thank the member states for their willingness to give up their powers and to contribute to a european framework. this draft regulation is the first to be based on the comprehensive energy article since the new treaty of lisbon. you are entering new territory today and making use of your newly acquired, comprehensive skills. no one can rule out a power outage. but it is all the more necessary to take precautions. we believe that close cooperation with the member states is more necessary than ever on gas. we are currently consulting poland in order to ensure that a new gas supply contract between russia and poland is compatible with european law from the outset and that formal infringement proceedings are not necessary. we welcome the house's call for a common european approach, for early prevention, for new technical possibilities such as reverse flows, for the development of infrastructure and for a common energy foreign policy. we also support parliament's call to monitor and implement the internal market. the minimum standards which are now binding on every household are a signal of solidarity and of europe's responsibility towards its citizens. throughout europe, a 30-day standstill period is mandatory in extreme conditions, such as infrastructure failures, temperature fluctuations or spikes in demand. 30 days of security is not a cushion, but it is a foundation with which to walk a little more confidently through the winter and possible future crises. we should speak with one voice even more, build our position internally as we are doing now and act together externally. the regulation has already implemented a number of measures in the field of gas infrastructure and reverse flows. we are currently supporting 31 projects in the gas sector with money given to us by parliament. eur 1.4 billion will result in a multiple release of public and private funds. we are thus achieving in these days and months much of what the regulation is aiming at. however, much remains to be done. i am sure that this regulation will not be the last word. i am therefore interested in an interim review in two or three years' time, and, if necessary, in updating this regulation and refining and extending the corresponding provisions. we want to ensure that the regulation is applied swiftly after it has been adopted. the commission wants to act early to ensure a common approach to our external energy relations. we have a coordination group on gas, which is led by the commission, which meets monthly and which will have a stronger role with the regulation. we welcome the fact that cooperation is not only european but also in the european regions the pilot project of the three baltic states estonia, latvia and lithuania under bemip and more. in short, regional solutions are also needed within the european dimension. i can assure you that the commission is seeking a wide-ranging debate on infrastructure. the infrastructure package we are going to present in november is the right opportunity for this, and so is the next financial period. (applause from the centre)
author of the draft opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. the citizens of europe expect the european union to take actions and decisions that will clearly and concretely express our will to manage transnational infrastructure together. this regulation meets those expectations. this is particularly the case for transport, i.e. the ability to move quickly anywhere in europe (high-speed rail, road and air links) and for security, including energy security. for several years now we have been calling in this parliament for energy supply to be treated as a strategic political issue. europe cannot be dependent on a single supplier, as is the case for central and eastern europe, which gets most of its supplies from russia. gazprom has repeatedly stated that it views gas as a strategic weapon to increase moscow's political influence by making it more difficult to supply blue fuel. we, as poles, polish meps, have pointed out the selfish nature of the northern gas pipeline, an investment undertaken without consulting the member states of the european union. today's gas solidarity regulation is an expression of europe's awareness that only together can we build an effective solidarity-based gas supply and distribution system. a system that will not leave any gas-deprived country on its own. however, the implementation of the regulation requires the political will of governments and the financial effort of the european union.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. − mr president, energy security is one of the key elements for safeguarding the future. it is a public good that the eu has a duty to provide for its citizens. the question is not if, but how, the community should act in order to make member states secure in the energy field. for that purpose, two elements are required: first, proper legislative instruments and, second, political vision and the will to implement those instruments. as for the legislative package that has been negotiated in a very effective manner by the rapporteur, mr vidal-quadras, i would estimate that, when compared with initial ambitions, two-thirds of the goal of providing energy security for the eu as a whole have been reached. the package provides us with ambitious rules concerning infrastructure, introduces the system for community reaction to emergency situations, and incorporates the principle of solidarity, as stipulated in article 194 of the treaty, as a binding provision. however, there are some important omissions, especially in the external dimension of eu energy policy. the regulation omits the role of the high representative and only vaguely refers to the southern corridor, nabucco or cooperation with our enp partners. however, the overall text represents huge progress – or rather may do so, if duly implemented. (the president cut off the speaker.)
on behalf of the ecr group. it is certainly worth congratulating, because alejo vidal-quadras is not only the support of the compromise with the council that we have achieved, but also the support of the extremely broad consensus of political forces in this parliament. this is very important. the conservative and reformist group supports this compromise, even though parliament initially proposed much more ambitious solutions, in particular in terms of infrastructure and the european union's political commitment to resolving crises, including in the international arena. it can be said that the original version of the regulation contained many more commitments, both to companies and to states. today, what we have on the table contains many more possibilities. we can only hope that this will not be a pretext for continuing the policy of indifference, both on the part of states and companies, the policy of indifference to the russian abuse of gas weapons in central europe. it remains to be hoped that the european commission will fight decisively against the abuse of a monopoly position by gazprom, which also for political reasons wants to maintain not only full control over the gas pipelines, also within the european union, but also full control over the raw material, also after its sale on the community market. this is happening at the expense of the common market, at the expense of competition, at the expense of consumer rights, and at the expense of the development of modern technologies in the gas industry. this regulation could of course have been better, but it still remains the most tangible opportunity, the most tangible guarantee of the eu's energy policy in the face of the supply crisis and should therefore be given the widest possible support by our house in the vote today.
security of gas supply is a special issue, a strategic issue. it was worked on by four committees in total. you say they worked for a short time, but in fact there was a long exchange of views. the theme was unique in that it touched on geopolitics, technology, technology, but above all the essence of european solidarity. how far do we want to go in building a common market in this area? how far do we want to go in solidarity? how far are the great and powerful willing to go to take care of the weak and unprepared in a crisis? a compromise has been reached. a compromise that he enjoys, like any compromise. i'm glad he is. but when i remember the ambitious first intentions, we wanted to go further. for the socialists and democrats, the most important word in the title of this report is security. but it's the security of the small print, the security of the simple people who pay their bills, read the newspapers and find out that someone can just turn off their gas. and i think from the point of view of their interests, from the point of view of the people who are afraid, every winter, afraid that someone will turn off the gas or pay more, this is a report that reduces their fear a little bit, and it's very good that it's been proposed. but let's also be frank, when it came to the discussion of who and under what conditions could define the state of emergency in terms of gas supply, there was no consensus here. it was suggested that one at-risk country could do it. when the first proposal said that two countries could do it, it fell apart. today we have a more vague definition, that further vague authorities will discuss this. so, in summary, a small step, but a step in the right direction.
energy security is one of the most important conditions for sovereignty today. the european union must therefore adopt a coherent policy on this matter as soon as possible. the current gas crisis directive of 2004 is totally inadequate to the existing risks. it is not able to protect countries, especially those in central and eastern europe, from weeks of gas supply cuts. and how serious this threat is was painfully demonstrated during the two russian-ukrainian gas crises in 2008 and 2009. better late than never, you might say. it is a good thing that by adopting the new regulation we are finally starting to build a common energy policy. this regulation should contribute to the establishment of mechanisms to coordinate action in the event of the next gas crisis and to the improvement of the network infrastructure linking the gas systems of the member states. the compromise negotiated with the council is certainly not perfect. in my opinion, the solutions originally proposed by the european parliament were much better. nevertheless, in view of the current, flawed legal situation, i believe that the proposals submitted should be supported.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, alejo vidala-quadras, who faced the extremely difficult challenge of producing a report on energy security issues in the supply of gas to the european union last year. both the european parliament and the council are fully aware of the agreement reached jointly. the regulation on the security of gas supply is intended to be a tool by which the european commission, the member states and their authorities, as well as gas undertakings, will take action to prevent the effects of a lack of gas supply in good time. as we have heard here, the rapporteur said that this is a legal act which is a response to a real problem facing the european union. i'd like to address the current situation and say that there may be a new crisis. it's about what happens under the contract between poland and russia. this is a new challenge for the european commission. poland has now become a battleground between the european commission and the russian federation over the implementation of the third gas liberalisation package. if the commission wants to test this situation, it should do so on the example of a country with a diversified gas supply structure, not poland, which is very limited in this respect. poland is currently facing a serious energy crisis, with a deficit of 1.7 billion cubic metres. the risk of a collapse of the polish economy therefore arises. we expect the european commission to help us to solve the problems that have arisen. it should be noted that poland is a transit country and not the end point of the russian system. i hope that the developments on the eastern border of the european union will make most member states appreciate the importance and the importance of ensuring the security of gas supply.
i would like to thank the rapporteur very much for having reached a compromise, which is particularly difficult in the energy field. i would like to thank commissioner oettinger for his commitment to the polish-russian gas deal. we very much appreciate the european commission's substantive approach to this issue. the energy issue is in modern europe the factor that determines the independence of many countries, and that is why i am surprised to hear those voices in this room who say that this is only an energy issue, that this is only an economic issue, that this is all we are discussing. no, you can't! many countries in europe are treating the energy issue, and rightly so because that is the facts, as a factor in their independence. if anyone wants to know for sure, he can read any russian document on the subject. the russians are playing two pianos on energy. one piano is about pure economic issues, the other is about outright political and security issues. and so if there is something we are lacking today, it is greater involvement, and also those agendas of the european commission which are responsible for external relations, so that we too can play on two pianos in this matter.
the commissioner said that this was the first document on energy matters since the lisbon treaty. indeed, energy solidarity was a key principle, including that of my country, poland, in the lisbon treaty, and the gas crises, in particular the 2009 crisis, but also those that preceded it, have shown that without the energy market, without infrastructure, including interconnectors, new networks, new sources of supply, the coordinating role of the european commission, and above all - and i stress this very strongly - without the political will of the commission, the council and the member states, we will not be able to prevent gas crises. poland currently has no contract for approximately 2,5 billion m3 of gas. the regulation could have been better, more perfect, in particular in terms of its obligations, including towards the european commission, also as regards the role of the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, and the member states. commissioner oettinger confirms that some kind of evaluation of this regulation is needed in 2-3 years' time to assess its effectiveness. it also shows that we haven't included everything.
the regulation we are voting on today is a milestone in the construction of a community energy policy. this is clearly demonstrated by the provisions relating to energy solidarity, which ensure the functioning of the legal instruments enabling a community response based on solidarity in crisis situations. the text we are voting on, while not being as ambitious as the one proposed by parliament, does give hope for the smooth functioning of the anti-crisis mechanism in the future. the very fact that an agreement was reached quickly with the council, where the interests of the member states were at odds, should be welcomed. i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr vidal-quadras, who was open from the outset to the solutions proposed by his colleagues and was keen to reach a compromise that would be acceptable to all. this regulation also illustrates that the european parliament is a key player in interinstitutional play and has the courage to fight for solutions that often seem unrealistic due to the lack of agreement between member states.
in writing. i commend member alejo vidala-qudrasa for his work and commitment to the gas security regulation. i am glad that we have been able to reach such a good compromise on this extremely important document. the interests of all member states on the most relevant issues have been reconciled, enabling the european union to react quickly and in solidarity in the face of disruptions to gas supplies. the report addresses the key issues of protecting member states against possible disruptions to gas supplies and ensuring good cooperation in prevention and crisis response across the eu. the commission and the member states are obliged to cooperate at community level to prevent a potential crisis. under the regulation, the european commission will be able to declare a state of emergency for a region affected by a gas supply disruption at the request of one country only. the proposed compromise is to increase the role of the european commission through new rapid response instruments. in this form, the regulation guarantees the security of gas supply even in particularly sensitive regions. however, investment in infrastructure development is necessary so that the provisions of the regulation are not just a paper version.
in writing. there is much talk about the implementation of the lisbon treaty in the context of the european external action service. however, it is worth paying attention to the activities undertaken in the field of energy policy. the treaty of lisbon, in paragraph 194, clearly outlines important priorities in this area: the creation of a single energy market, the security of gas supply, energy efficiency and savings, and the promotion of energy network connections and actions to reduce dependence on energy imports. the alejo vidal-quadrasa report on security of gas supply is an important step towards achieving the objectives of the treaty. it reflects the spirit of european solidarity that is so important today. such documents are a particularly important signal to citizens at a time when there is much talk of national interests and of the decentralisation tendencies that are tearing the union apart. it shows that the european parliament, in cooperation with the european commission, is implementing european values of cooperation and solidarity. the european commission's document 'towards a new energy strategy for europe 2011-2020' is a further step in this direction. it is a further step towards a comprehensive energy policy in the context of the eu 2020 strategy, but also a further step towards the objectives of the lisbon treaty. the report i have prepared and which i am now working on in parliament also shows that the community method is particularly important in the energy field.
in writing. the adoption of the regulation on security of gas supply opens the way to the future creation of a common gas market at eu level. important provisions in this document include the introduction of an obligation to prepare prevention and crisis plans in each country, the obligation to declare a state of emergency at eu level when two countries declare a state of crisis, the application of the geopolitical risk criterion in the overall risk assessment of the eu gas security. the two-way transmission of energy will enable a country in energy distress to receive the necessary help from another country that has the resources at its disposal. this is undoubtedly the beginning of the application of solutions based on the idea of cooperation and solidarity. referring to the issue of energy diversification will allow member states to step up their efforts in this area and will support projects already under way such as nabucco. in conclusion, thanks to the solutions proposed in the regulation and increased investment in infrastructure, we are able to protect ourselves, or better protect ourselves, from the situation that occurred in 2008 in ukraine. it is an illusion to be completely independent of russia in terms of gas supplies, but we can at least strengthen our position in negotiations with it. i would like to thank all those who have helped to reach a compromise on an issue of such importance to the union as a whole.
in writing. the compromise negotiated by the european parliament is a real step towards implementing the provisions of the lisbon treaty. it sets the preconditions for the practical application of solidarity by member states in the event of gas supply disruptions, and that is our success. the provisions on transmission infrastructure, the eu-wide crisis response system and the joint risk assessment and the development of prevention and crisis plans based on it, as well as the introduction of a geopolitical aspect in this assessment, prove not only the success of the negotiations of the parliamentarians, but also lay the foundations for the communitisation of energy policy, which parliament already sought in the last term.
in writing. i congratulate the rapporteur on a very well prepared document. after long and difficult negotiations, a europe-wide compromise was reached. i consider the obligation to prepare preventive and emergency plans in each member state within two years and the mandatory declaration of a state of emergency at eu level if two countries declare a state of crisis to be particularly important elements of the agreement. the success of the negotiations is also the obligation to transport raw materials in two directions by pipeline after three years from the entry into force of the regulation. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur once again. this document is a step towards a true european energy community.
the preparations for the upcoming summit are very important, as the issues discussed will set the policy direction and priorities for the next period of our cooperation. compliance with quality standards is particularly important in environmental protection, including climate, but also in social and socio-political matters and in respect of human rights. the difficulties in accessing the chinese market, the respect of intellectual property rights or the rules of public procurement by the chinese government should be examined very seriously. the european union is also committed to promoting cultural dialogue and cooperation, and to the european-chinese youth year. the eu needs to be more united in its approach to china. only then will our policy be effective.
the next item is the vote. (results and other voting details: see minutes)
thank you, lord! only a political group can make such a request. in this case, this conclusion is not adequate. we can't take him into account. before the vote on amendment 2, part 2
are you reporting on behalf of a political group?
it is a little late, but we can take a roll-call vote if nobody is against that. is anybody against it? mr batten, are you against it?
i would like to make it very clear that the procedure you are referring to concerns oral amendments, because there is no deadline for oral amendments. if you propose a roll call, the rules are different. no one in the room can object. in this case, there was a deadline for submission and you did not submit the proposal within the deadline. those are the rules written in our bylaws. where a time limit has been set for the submission of the application, no objection may be raised. the resolution is passed. i would like to congratulate mrs de lange on her work on this resolution.
your email addresses will be sent with the thursday information in a moment.
the eruption of iceland's volcano in april proved that europe, on a continental scale, is indeed doomed to aviation. there's no alternative at this point. neither rail transport nor any other transport sector could replace aviation, hence the question of aviation safety and reliability. in the event of an aviation incident - that is what we are dealing with - whether it is an aviation accident or not, the key is to be able to identify the causes effectively in order to establish responsibility first, but what is even more important - to be able to prevent accidents, especially near collisions, as well as accidents in this important transport activity. i would like to thank both the rapporteur and the co-rapporteur for having covered a complex set of cases, for having indicated responsibility and the way to deal with them. it's a good regulation. i voted yes.
the security of gas supply has been, is and will continue to be a critical issue in the international political situation, but above all in ensuring the living conditions of the people of europe by guaranteeing adequate supplies of this indispensable resource. the ideas proposed by the author of the report, such as streamlining the emergency declaration system by referring the criteria to the geographical area concerned, setting precise thresholds allowing member states to intervene in the market or centralisation and enhanced protection of supply data and commercial information, will undoubtedly improve security of supply and guarantee its continuity. this is particularly important for gas-based farms, of which there are so many in europe. of course i voted yes.
we have adopted an important report on the security of gas supply. the solutions it proposes are a step in the right direction, but they do not provide a full sense of security for society and the economy. the experience of recent years has shown that the actions of a number of member states have been directed towards their own interests rather than towards the construction of a genuine, coordinated and solidary european policy in this field. we must separate the so-called extraction from the transmission, eliminate the monopoly, separate the gas issues from the international policy. diversification of gas production sources and supply routes, infrastructure development, cooperation between gas operators and their joint transnational activities are necessary actions to be implemented. this document is, in my view, the beginning of the construction of a common energy policy.
despite the improvement in relations between the union and turkey, obstacles remain in the form of tariff and non-tariff barriers which, together with other formalities and procedures, need to be simplified. there are issues on both sides. these include intellectual property infringement and counterfeit products on our partner's part. we are committed to a partnership with turkey because the causes of trade imbalances must be examined very carefully before they become a major problem. is it possible that, after waiting for many years for a common position on turkey's membership of the community, the union is now looking for alternative allies? relations between the economies of the union and turkey should also be analysed in the light of the demographic structure and prospects of both parties.
the wealth of nature is the greatest fortune man has in his possession. unfortunately, as a species, we do a lot to lose this wealth. creating programmes like natura 2000 is one of the things we do to protect nature from ourselves. the commission has also proposed to strengthen the rules on the protection of the environment by introducing a new environmental law. i also support the point in mrs de lange's report where she talks about compensating farmers, under the common agricultural policy, for additional services to protect ecosystems. farmers love the land, they love nature and they protect it, even without receiving any additional bonuses in return. however, financial support is necessary to ensure that farmers do not bear all the costs of biodiversity conservation.
helping the poorest is one of the fundamental functions of the european union. this is not a matter for discussion and i congratulate the author on the report. however, as a member of the committee on agriculture, a farmer, i feel obliged to draw attention to paragraph 54 of the report, in which the rapporteur recommends a review of the cap's subsidy policy. i agree that the support system needs to be revised, but we cannot allow a repeat of the situation that resulted from the sugar market reform. it was supposed to support poor producers in third countries, but the big latin american laty-fundists benefited from this reform, not the owners of smaller farms. so let us be very careful and do a thorough analysis before we decide to make any reforms. i voted against paragraph 54 and in favour of the report as a whole.
in writing. - i hope that this report is a clear signal to the european commission to take further steps to improve intra-eu trade on the net. we call for the standardisation and simplification of administrative procedures which, as they currently stand, effectively prevent us from buying from foreign websites, even if they have an attractive offer. we also want to ensure that broadband is available throughout the eu by 2013. this is no longer a fantasy. not only is this increasingly possible, but it is not necessary to convince anyone of the positive impact that widespread internet access would have on the internal market.
in writing. - i welcome the results of the vote on mrs de veyrac's report today. i voted for the document, of course. the current system of accident investigation in civil aviation is 16 years old. during this time, air traffic over europe increased significantly. the risk of accidents has also increased. the committees investigating the causes of accidents should be guaranteed independence from interference by interested parties, time pressure, politics, the media and judicial authorities. the first thing to do is to look for the cause of the accident and the means of preventing it in the future, not the culprits. the investigation of the causes of accidents that may have occurred also has an invaluable impact on safety. it is therefore important to introduce as soon as possible the icao sms and just culture programmes, which provide for voluntary and non-sanctioned reporting by pilots, cabin crew, air traffic controllers and ground handling of any observed irregularity. unfortunately, for fear of disciplinary or criminal sanctions, many serious problems and incidents remain unreported.
in writing. −safety of gas supply depends on diversifying routes and sources of supply to avoid a monopoly by third countries, and to exploit market mechanisms and eliminate the impact of a failure on the supply route. we have to make a clear distinction between households, gas-fired power stations and industry. the regulation emphasises the possibility of rapid switching of large consumers to other types of fuel. however, it should be borne in mind that gas turbines make it impossible to simply use other fuels. another problem is the ambiguity surrounding the link between solidarity and market rules. it is urgent to lay down rules for the pricing of gas in the event of an emergency supply. the eu does not have much gas of its own, and is putting fuel into it, but the coal it does have will soon (even in such situations) not be used because of the european commission's belief in the unlikely hypothesis of anthropogenic climate change. russia is not concerned and, counting on a large external input, is switching to coal and nuclear energy. i voted for this regulation, but it must be realised that it only solves a small part of the energy security problem. the harmful regulations contained in the climate and energy package will inevitably lead to the loss of my country, poland, of its current security. soon, we may run out of power for as much as 10 percent.
in writing. − the gas security regulation is an important step towards the realisation of the principle of solidarity between states in the field of gas security policy. in particular, our region, which is heavily dependent on a single supplier, will benefit from the solutions developed under the regulation. this is also crucial for the smooth functioning of the internal market. the regulation will contribute to avoiding and resolving gas crises and, consequently, to ensuring that the internal market can function properly and continue to develop. poland will benefit from a common gas policy. the provisions of the regulation will enable poland to count on the support of the union in crisis situations and, more importantly, to participate in the community policy in this area, inter alia, through the prevention and crisis plans to be developed in each member state. the provisions on the mandatory declaration of a state of emergency at union level (if two countries declare a state of crisis) and the inclusion of the geopolitical risk criterion in the overall gas security risk assessment are particularly important.
in writing. - i fully agree with the authors of the report that the preservation of biodiversity is not only an ethical duty, but also has ecological and economic value and is crucial to mitigating climate change. i think the proposals for modifying the natura 2000 programme are right. in particular, those that focus on creating resilient ecosystems that can respond to stress and perform valuable ecosystem functions, and not just those that focus on habitat and species conservation under this program. at the same time, it is important to understand the perspective of countries that are implementing large infrastructure projects. the need for a sensible compromise between environmental protection and infrastructure development is a pressing issue. development cannot be at the expense of nature. but nature cannot prevent growth.
in writing. − i would like to thank mep ferreira for his initiative in putting forth a motion for a european parliament resolution on this issue of such wide-reaching relevance and importance. as a polish citizen, i have seen and experienced the traumatic effects of natural disasters — in particular those of floods — on my nation’s general well-being. furthermore, as a european citizen, i recognise the importance of a european-level, solidarity-based prevention mechanism. let me also take this opportunity to highlight that we have concrete instruments which oblige member states to develop prevention mechanisms against natural disasters —more specifically, the floods directive. the recent example of poland illustrates the consequences of a lack of proper implementation with regard to this legal act. natural disasters do not discriminate, and neither should the prevention nor response effort. it is my belief that when what is at stake is human life, as well as the environment, economy, and security of any nation or region, the issue becomes less a political one and more so a moral one. it is in this line of reasoning that i would like to join my colleagues in voting "yes" to this motion for resolution.
in writing. - the european union has been hit by a series of tragic natural disasters in recent years. a few months ago, poland and other central european countries were hit by devastating floods. not a month goes by without news of a cataclysm affecting the people of europe. but we need to think about what steps we can take to prevent natural disasters. the report rightly points out that the root cause of natural disasters is man's mismanagement of the environment. i also support the report's call for the creation of an appropriate financial framework at eu level to prevent natural and man-made disasters. i also believe that it is essential to strengthen cooperation between national, regional and local authorities in the field of disaster response.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the commission communication entitled 'a community approach to the prevention of natural and man-made disasters'. this year in europe we've had severe frosts, floods, tropical heat, wind chimes. millions of europeans suffered. and i want to do the same for the next few years. in the face of the intensification of disasters, voluntary cooperation between member states and eu emergency assistance to prevent, respond to and mitigate their effects are no longer sufficient. we need a global eu strategy to implement a protocol on uniform responses to different types of natural disasters, especially those with a high frequency (forest fires, floods, droughts). solidarity between countries is needed, with particular regard to the so-called less-favoured regions because of their geographical location, population density and economic and social conditions. the strategy must be reflected in the new financial perspective for 2014-2020. in this context, it is important to combine existing aid instruments such as cohesion policy, rural development policy, regional policy, the solidarity fund, the seventh framework programme and the life+ programmes. in line with previous european parliament resolutions, the creation of a european drought observatory and the development of a specific initiative in the field of forest protection and fire prevention should be considered. the european parliament also called on the commission to develop a new proposal to further simplify administrative rules and increase the flexibility of the european union solidarity fund.
in writing. − in reducing poverty in developing countries, the european parliament should focus on social standards which translate into living standards for the people of these countries. the eu has a duty to combat child and forced labour. at the same time, it is worth remembering that agriculture is the main source of livelihood for millions of people in developing countries. i fully support the report's call for support for family farms. it is also worth noting that the report calls for respecting and nurturing the tradition of working together on the land, which has ensured a relatively good standard of living for the inhabitants for centuries.
in writing. - i supported the report on reducing poverty and creating jobs in developing countries. combating poverty is a top priority of the 2020 strategy, which sets the direction for eu action in the coming years. this target covers the approximately 120 million europeans who currently live in poverty. the effective fight against poverty in developing countries requires the eradication of poverty in europe. in this context, the educational aspect is important. education and training are the best means of finding a job and thus breaking out of poverty. in developing countries, it is particularly important to ensure access to education for children regardless of gender. even in countries where per capita income is relatively high, access to education is limited for certain social groups - national minorities, girls. in the poorest countries, only about half the children attend school. the union should pay more attention in its aid programmes to guaranteeing free teaching materials, meals, school buses. legislation is also needed on education and child welfare, and to promote opportunities for students to study abroad, while developing programmes that appeal to young people to return home to work for their communities after graduation. it is also important to carry out awareness-raising campaigns on the problem of forced child labour.
i would like to begin by congratulating mrs mcavan and all those who worked on the directive and regulation on pharmacovigilance. the issues in these documents are very important to the health system, but most importantly to patient safety. statistics show that nearly 200,000 people die each year from the side effects of medicines, that about 50% of patients do not take their medicines as prescribed, and that more than 70% of patients would like to find reliable information about medicines and procedures online. it is therefore clear that, with the change in the rules governing the registration of pharmaceutical products, it has become necessary to introduce a system which will provide reliable information on medicinal products using the internet . however, without proper reporting of all adverse drug reactions by medical staff, patients and the company, there will be no good pharmacovigilance. first, you need to identify and respond to signs of potential problems. this is a new step towards full disclosure and transparency of pharmacological information. an important element of pharmacovigilance is the placing of information on medicinal products on the internet in all the official languages of the european union in such a way that it is understandable to all patients. however, it should be noted that the internet in addition to being a very good source of information can contain a lot of false information, so it is necessary to constantly monitor and update the system developed, as its efficiency is the most important. proposals to increase the transparency of the union surveillance system by using public hearings to gather information on adverse reactions are also relevant. this is a useful tool in surveillance, especially if the whole of society, rather than just a small group of specialists, can participate, which will certainly increase patients' confidence in medicines.
in writing. statistics show that up to half of patients take medicines not as prescribed by their doctors, and about three quarters of patients would like to have easy access to reliable information on the effects of medicines and their possible side effects the proposal for pharmacovigilance will enhance patient safety and ensure their right to better information on the uses and effects of medicines. the creation of information portals at both european and national level is an important step towards transparency in medicines information. the national portals will be linked to the european portal and will have to contain a description of each product, a leaflet and an impact assessment. the european medicines agency, in cooperation with the member states and the commission, will supervise this database where information will be collected and compared as part of pharmacovigilance. i think this is an important step towards ensuring that patients have the right to better, reliable and objective information about pharmaceutical products.
biocidal products, because of their chemical composition, are on the one hand quite dangerous, especially for the most vulnerable, such as children and pregnant women, and on the other hand essential and almost irreplaceable in the care of human health. it is therefore necessary to establish - and this is what is happening - common standards for all the countries of the union, so that people can feel safe and that the companies producing these products have clearly defined standards which do not reduce their competitiveness. the harmonisation of the rules should cover the entire life cycle of these products on the market, from production to waste disposal, so that they do not endanger the environment and human health. that really should be a priority. that doesn't mean we should lose sight of the good conditions for modern industry.
in writing. the value of the biocidal products market in europe is estimated at around eur 890 million per year, representing around 27% of the global market. biocides are used in everyday life in households and in industry. these materials are used as disinfectants, preservatives, insect and rodent control agents. however, particular attention should be paid to consumer safety when using biocidal products. it is important that the use of biocidal products does not endanger human or animal health and life. we should therefore keep a close watch on all biocidal products imported into the european union, their marketing, especially for new products. it is also important to exercise caution when purchasing biocidal products and the system developed in the union should aim at full harmonisation of regulatory issues. in addition, a review programme for active substances used in biocidal products is being implemented within the community. the union should harmonise in all member states the list of nanomaterials that have been tested and can subsequently be used in chemical products. this will ensure that nanomaterials, which can have a very significant impact on technological development, are not excluded from the market and do not endanger the environment and consumer health.
on behalf of the ecr group. the european union is at a dangerous financial crossroads. the maintenance of financial stability has never been more threatened in the union's history. we must identify the measures that will be necessary to continue the union's projects that have been launched and to make a smooth transition to the new tasks that the treaty of lisbon imposes on us. we also need to consider measures for new events that we were not able to predict before. budget discipline is one thing, but life is another. the current economic situation calls for a reassessment of priorities to ensure that it is properly implemented. we must remember the basic principles of the union. i'm thinking, for example, of the smoothing out of the differences between the old and the new countries, which is a division that unfortunately still exists. i ask you in the council and the commissioner to remember the foundations laid by the founding fathers of the union and the achievements of the european union over more than 50 years. let's break down barriers, simplify and make life easier for citizens in europe by using every euro from the common budget wisely.
almost a year after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the european union is faced with a budgetary paradox. council members, who had previously been active in pushing for the treaty's ratification, now seem to be blind to the fact that the policies it provides for are seriously underfunded. worse still, the council does not allow even more generous funding for the union's flagship initiatives, such as the galileo programme or the european external action service. it is worth remembering that the current financial framework was negotiated more than five years ago, when european diplomacy, for example, was an absolute political fiction. the revision of the multiannual financial framework is necessary and financing only from the reserves of important policies will not lead to the lisbon objectives being achieved. the new treaty will require a review of the existing financial framework and the establishment of instruments with the council to implement its budgetary provisions, and we need to be more cautious in future when making new commitments and determining the resources to be used to finance a given policy. in other words, the ambitious budget of the european union requires more flexibility than ever before, not cuts. we can't get more europe for less money.
i'd like to thank you for the information you provided to commissioner lewandowski. but my concern is for something else. this is the problem of the european union's revenue until 2013. as a review, it is a review, so it is not just a discussion about expenditure, about its appropriateness, but i think we should also talk about whether the union's revenue planned for 2013 is revenue to be implemented and whether it is revenue on which we can rely. the budget that was adopted was adopted in a completely different economic and financial reality. we have been dealing with a major and significant decline in gdp in the countries of the union for two years. i would therefore like to ask the commissioner if he has any specific estimates as to whether the revenue for the union budget until 2013 may be lower than what has been planned so far.
we are talking today about a financial stabilisation mechanism in europe, we are talking about an amending budget. these are steps that are sure to increase the security and certainty of the financial system in europe. these actions now are certainly necessary to avoid even greater financial troubles in the future. i hope that the actions we're talking about today will be effective, that they will be a kind of cure and they will cure the symptoms. but it certainly doesn't eliminate the causes that have been the main problem for the last few months. the measures we are now taking, without a fundamental change in the european financial system, can only be temporary. so we must start by changing the fundamentals, so that european finances are more sustainable and transparent, so that we as parliament are not used as firefighters who have to go and put out fires every now and then. such action can only be a help, not a way to make a lasting impact on the future.
member of the commission. - mr president, i have to say something. in fact, you can get the impression that we have an alpine island structure here. but i am glad that the european parliament is here in a constant state of concern for the economic and social development of areas with special needs, such as mountainous regions, islands or sparsely populated areas. the treaty of lisbon reinforces the importance of territorial cohesion. this is one of the objectives of the union as set out in article 174. this is why the commission has launched a comprehensive discussion process with the green paper on territorial cohesion. one of the key outcomes of this consultation was not necessarily to create new and additional financial resources, but instead to highlight the importance of integrated territorial development approaches and better consideration of the strengths of different regions. the regional characteristics are, in my view, basically strengths of the respective regions. therefore, regional characteristics - whether it is the island location, the mountainous area or sparsely populated areas - do not automatically create a problem or a higher need for support, especially since these areas are by no means uniform. there is therefore no one-size-fits-all solution for these seemingly interconnected regions. the commission attaches the utmost importance to ensuring the harmonious and joint growth of the regions. i therefore want to work together to implement the europe 2020 strategy in all regions, rather than jeopardising rather than promoting the joint work of different strategies for differently structured areas. we therefore believe that there is no need for a specific policy for areas with special circumstances, but that on the contrary we must also strengthen the integrated approach of our policy together with other policies and encourage the regions even more to create programmes tailored to their particular needs. we need to strengthen the territorial dimension in all policy areas, both in design and implementation. this gives rise to four priority areas of action. firstly, to bring regional policy closer to the citizens and to the regions. in the interests of territorial cohesion, we must strengthen the consistency of policies at the various levels. this also means taking the multi-level governance approach seriously and integrating all relevant stakeholders into the design and implementation of our policies. but this also means making greater use of existing opportunities for interregional, multiregional and multinational cooperation to better take account of the common challenges of certain areas, such as large mountain regions such as the alps or the pyrenees. secondly, better coordination of regional policies. territorial cohesion also means taking better account of the complementarity and coherence between regional and sectoral policies. we need to be clear about the impact of policies on the regions. the commission has therefore set up the inter-service group on territorial cohesion, which brings together representatives of the different directorates-general. the main task is to analyse the individual sectoral policies and their impact on the regions, and in particular on those with particular geographical challenges. thirdly, territorial cooperation to strengthen european integration. cooperation is particularly important for areas with particular geographical challenges. it is about solving common challenges across borders, whether in the form of macro-regional strategies such as the baltic sea strategy, interregional networks or the exchange of good practice. fourthly, and finally, we must make better use of regional expertise. in order to deliver a targeted and subsidiary regional development policy and thus support the europe 2020 objectives, we need to know even more about the situation of the regions and the impact of policies. we need an even better monitoring system, which can process the existing data even better, and we need targeted indicators to ensure appropriate policy. this will only be possible in conjunction with the regions, the regional economic operators and the citizens. ladies and gentlemen, we need a strong regional policy for all regions, which takes account of the different needs and specificities of all regions. i am pleased to be able to discuss with the european parliament very soon the future of regional policy and also of the special areas on the basis of the fifth cohesion report.
on behalf of the ppe group. today we are discussing regions with very specific, specific characteristics. regions where many activities involve other costs. both islands and mountain regions are burdened with additional costs which are due to geographical conditions. today's discussion also has a secondary significance, very important for the further action that the commissioner has spoken of. the debate today opens the door to a discussion on cohesion policy beyond 2013. the resolution we are talking about today is not so much about the will to support certain territories - which is what is contained in the treaty - but it is about very concrete solutions and raises concrete questions about how we will organise cohesion policy after 2013. please note that it focuses on integrating regional policy with other policies. the question arises as to the indicators of the justification for the use of cohesion policy and gross national product. there is talk of other policies also supporting these regions, including - which is not mentioned here, and it is worth remembering - agricultural policy. we are talking about territorial cooperation and making better use of the european grouping of territorial cooperation, which we worked on in the previous financial perspective. in other words, we are at the first stage of a serious discussion on the future of cohesion policy. we start with the specific regions, but this is the beginning that shows that cohesion policy is and must remain one of the key policies of the european union.
mr president, commissioner, territorial diversity is an asset for europe. our duty, as european institutions, is to ensure the conditions for this asset to work for europe, for its culture and for its economy. the treaty calls on the community to take into account in its policies territories with specific features which entail particular development challenges, both in terms of problems to be solved, and of opportunities to be exploited. in this context, let me raise three issues. first, territorial impact assessment. this issue has been on the european agenda for years. i would like to call on the commission to include the territorial dimension in the impact assessment procedure for european initiatives. territorial impact assessment could be an excellent horizontal tool to address effectively the specific needs of those territories. i would like, therefore, to strongly support the idea of territorialisation of the impact assessment instrument. reaching out through the model of strategic environmental assessment could be of help here. secondly, you spoke, commissioner, about the inter-service group on territorial cohesion. i am convinced that there is still potential in the commission to raise awareness in many relevant policy areas about the development challenges of specific territories. through the work of dg regio with all other relevant services, the territorial sensitivity of all european policies should be identified. in particular, i believe transport and energy policies should be territory-proof. territory proofing should become part of good practice in the union. thirdly, i would like to ask the commission to look carefully into eu 2020, and especially its flagship initiatives, to identify priorities of particular importance for these territories with specific developmental features. in conclusion, let me use this opportunity to say more generally that european citizens can but benefit from eu 2020 flagship initiatives being taken to the local and regional level.
competitiveness and prosperity depend on the ability of the citizens of a given area and the ability of the businesses located there to make the best use of its resources. european union policy should give impetus to such action, in particular by focusing on reducing disparities in levels of development between regions with specific natural and geographical conditions. promoting harmonious development aims to strengthen the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the union. the focus should be on developing the strengths and potential areas of competitive advantage of mountain and island areas. it is a kind of bridge-building between ecological balance, economic efficiency and social cohesion to ensure development opportunities for all in these difficult regions. with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the union is obliged to seek such solutions.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, trademarks are of real importance in modern commerce. they help to identify the origin of products and services, to guarantee a constant level of quality, to convey the image of the company. access to the community trade mark is a challenge for the development of our businesses and also for the fight against counterfeiting. you have expressed concern about the decisions taken by certain national trade mark offices. those decisions seek to restrict the use of the community trade mark by invoking a requirement that the use of a community trade mark in a single member state does not constitute genuine use of the mark. i would like to thank the members who have drawn the attention and the vigilance of the commission to this situation, which we are following very closely. the great merit of the community trade mark is that it offers all businesses, including small and medium-sized enterprises, an effective tool for protecting trade marks at european level. until now, the rule that any genuine use of a community trade mark by the proprietor is sufficient, irrespective of where it is used in the community, has always been regarded by users as one of its main advantages. this rule is consistent with the unitary character of the community trade mark. it is also consistent with the very principle of the single market. any further restriction on the use of the community trade mark could therefore have serious consequences for the fight against counterfeiting, which will be the subject - i repeat this to parliament - of the commission's commitment to an action plan against piracy and counterfeiting, in particular in the draft single market act. what are these consequences? firstly, the introduction of a new requirement could slow down the fight against trademark infringement. the community trade mark is an effective tool in the fight against counterfeiting, as i have just said, because it provides unfailing protection throughout the european union and at all its external borders. it is essential for counterfeit products, which are currently being imported in large quantities from third countries, to be seized at the external borders of our union under community customs regulations. and then, the introduction of such a requirement could make access to the community trade mark more difficult for small and mediumsized enterprises, for start-ups. these companies often operate at the national level and only start exporting, expanding their business beyond borders, after their business has proved successful. the growth of these companies could therefore be made more difficult if they were no longer able to obtain and use a community trade mark before expanding their business. and it would also be in contradiction with many of our policies which are aimed precisely at promoting the development of small and mediumsized enterprises, which - i remind you - represent more than 95% of european enterprises. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, i want to confirm or assure you that my services will be following very closely these developments in the member states. at this stage we are confident that the national courts will not confirm these decisions which we consider to be inconsistent with the unitary character of the community trade mark and the principles of the single market, as i have already said.
on behalf of the ppe group. i am very pleased that, despite the late hour, we have the opportunity today to hear the commission's statement on the community trade mark in the internal market. my political group, the epp, has just come out with this initiative. as the commissioner knows, this is a matter of particular concern to my colleagues on the imco and juri committees. the ppe group has always believed that the internal market was created to remove barriers between member states and we aim to continue to fight for the removal of these barriers. that was also the purpose of the community trade mark. the advantage of this system is, inter alia, that it guarantees uniform protection for undertakings throughout the union. geographical differences should not be a major factor here. after all, companies operate in one european market. we therefore look with concern at the decisions taken by some national ip offices. i therefore welcome your statement that the commission considers that these decisions are contrary to the principles on which the common market is built. my group will be watching the situation develop further and will support actions which take account of the community approach and serve the interests of businesses. finally, i would like to ask the commissioner what options are available if the member states' jurisdiction does not share the approach presented by the commission. in your opinion, might it be necessary to revise the council regulation on the common trade mark and the directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to trade marks in order to clarify the situation?
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the european council and the european commission on the conclusions of the european council (16 september 2010).
mr president of the european council, i imagine you would like to say a few words.
mr president, turning back to foreign policy – which was supposed to be the main topic of the summit – we need a foreign policy which is not just reactive, but which is forward-looking, holistic, anticipative and wants to achieve long-term goals. i am afraid that the present debate on the eas will bring exaggerated expectations if this new instrument is not accompanied by more common eu policy. it is just an instrument, not an end in itself. we need more policy convergence and we need to bring the positions of the member states closer together. i see here a great role for the president of the council, who brings together the heads of state and government, to bring more convergence to the member states’ positions. the same goes for the european parliament and national parliaments, in order to bring about more convergence. then the instrument may work. we also need more competent foreign policy, and there is great room for improvement. more competent means more geographically representative for the union of 27, because competence is not geographically neutral. we can afford richer, better and more competent foreign policy, drawing competence from the experience and wisdom of all 27 member states. we need to define strategic partners. i am afraid that our list of strategic partners is too long, and we put all the important or big ones on the list. for me the list is too long. we need to define it. it should not be synonymous with important partners. only those who converge with us on policy – and possibly share values and want to share with us responsibility for global strategic issues – merit being called partners of strategic importance.
that was slightly too fast, and the interpreters could not interpret precisely. please do not speak so fast.
colleagues, i would ask you not to raise blue cards. please raise the white card if you want to take part in the catch-the-eye procedure. i am very sorry, the blue card is something different. all of you are on the list, but there are 25 names on that list, so it will not be possible to take contributions from all of you. i am very sorry.
the main agenda item of the last european council was an attempt to give a new impetus to the union's external relations on the basis of the treaty of lisbon. this is not the first time that a council summit has been dominated by an issue that was not officially foreseen, this time it was the removal of the roma population from a european union country. this confirms earlier fears that, after the adoption of the lisbon treaty, the union's countries will continue to focus more on internal problems than on external relations. the foreign policy guidelines set out in the council's minutes go no further than the definition of the union's strategic interests and objectives and the use of assertive means. the european council has announced a new impetus to transatlantic relations. it is to be hoped that at the summit with us president barack obama in november this year, the current anti-american phobia will be replaced by a pragmatic alignment of common interests. one of these should be the issue of the final abolition of visas for all eu countries.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, you have been very generous in allocating me the time. i shall try to be very brief and just react to the four major topics that have been discussed here this morning. first, i think we can clearly see that there is strong support for the new strategic approach towards our key partners, that we need to make much better use of the lisbon framework and that we need to make better use of eu positions and the projections of eu powers in foreign policy. we can achieve this by making better use of foreign policy synergy and we need to work on member states and the european institutions singing from one hymn sheet with one voice. i therefore appreciate highly the importance president van rompuy placed on ownership of eu foreign policy, not only by the institutions, but also by the leaders of the member states, because only in that way, when we speak with one voice, not only multilaterally but also in our bilateral contacts, will we achieve the necessary results. a couple of words on economic governance. here again i see strong support in parliament for maintaining the momentum of the change we started this spring. there is very clear support for building up a new and better system and i would like to assure the honourable members of this parliament that we are not going to look critically only at budget deficit. we are also going to take a very close look at the issue of debt – how to manage it better and how to monitor it better in the future. parliament will have the chance to discuss this issue annually because commissioners will be coming every january for the annual growth survey which will start the so-called european semester, and where you will see the complex picture of the european economy and the economic state of the different member states. this will be a very welcome opportunity to have a deeper debate on this issue at the beginning of every year. at the same time, i would like to assure you that we have not forgotten the importance of growth and employment. for that we need to use the eu 2020 strategy tools, because we would like to set the european economy on new bases, on new wheels, and we want to pursue the smart inclusive green – meaning healthy – growth of the european economy. therefore, we need to focus more on employment, on better education, on high quality youth policies and, of course, on the reduction of poverty. these two strengths – better surveillance and smarter economic policies – must go hand in hand, because only in that way will we achieve the necessary results. so if the commission is for something, it is for smart consolidation. turning to the external action service, i think that baroness ashton made it very clear that she is fully committed to building a professional european external action service which will reflect european values, strength and also the european landscape. therefore, geographic and gender balance, as well as an agreed balance among the sources for the european external action service from our institutions and member states, as has been agreed, are very important in building up the new professional staff of the european external action service. cathy ashton undertook to inform you regularly about progress in building up the service. i believe that the progress achieved in the transitional period to 2013 will answer present concerns, which i fully understand. for my last point, let me thank you all for your insistence on respecting european law, cherishing european values and undertaking to look for better ways to alleviate the plight of the roma people and for their integration. more than eur 17.5 billion have been allocated to measures benefiting roma and other vulnerable groups by the commission and 12 member states, mostly from the european social fund. however, we have to look at how we use our means and the instruments which are at our disposal. i would call for these to be used more efficiently. for that we will need to take a new fresh look at how to do this in the future. if we do this together it will definitely be much more efficient, and will bring much better results than in the past.
president of the european council. - mr president, first of all i would like to thank all those who have spoken in the debate. i know that it is a difficult task to answer, but i know that it is also a very difficult task to summarize, in one minute, the points of view that we want to develop. and so, i won't be able to respond to all the comments. only on two important chapters, a few remarks. chapter one: foreign policy, foreign policy. we've come a long way from here. there was mr. solana's important work. we forget that too often. i have listed the common positions we have been able to reach with the european union on iran, the middle east and certain trade issues. but we also took a step forward, particularly in our position at the g20, which is the world's largest annual conference. and when i joined the european council as prime minister, there were still, a year ago, separate meetings of all the member states that are part of the g20. they were establishing a common position. i asked, demanded and have since demanded that there be a common position of the 27. even though not all countries are present at the g20, mr barroso and i represent the union as a union, and so we have a common position. i can assure you that at the g8 and g20 meetings the member states and the union representatives are delivering the same message. there are also positive developments and progress, and i should like to stress that there has been some progress in this respect. and this is the biggest international world conference, which is the g20. are there any more problems? of course you are! and we are still reeling from the trauma of copenhagen. we had a common position. we had a common message. but we have failed to impose, to make others accept our position. the result: everyone loses, because the results are totally unsatisfactory. so there has been progress in various areas, but more work needs to be done in the right direction. i was asked what your message will be at the summit with china. i would ask you to read carefully, not superficially, but carefully, what has been written in the european council conclusions. i suggest you do. of course, we are not going to indicate in the conclusions of the european council the strategy we are going to develop, the balances we are going to present to our strategic partners, such as the chinese partners. but if you read the text, you will notice that there are, in fact, new accents and that the notion of reciprocity is going to be introduced. it's not just us who react to the message of others. we have become claimants to a number of partners. and we need this concept of reciprocity. the european parliament is involved, and even more so since the treaty of lisbon, in trade agreements, in complete co-legislation when it comes to international agreements and international trade agreements. and so there is progress, but more needs to be done. the summit with the american president will be prepared at the october council. we will agree on the messages that mr barroso and i will give to the american president. we shall agree to speak on behalf of the union, on behalf of the 27. so again, step by step, we're going to go in the right direction. the second point is economic policy. we have had a very clever economic policy in the last two years, much cleverer than in the past. we lost ten years. we could have acted in time on budgetary and competitiveness issues, but we did not. and that's exactly why we have problems today. what have we done since the financial crisis? beyond the bailouts of banks and others, a very risky expansionary policy was pursued in 2008 and, for the most part, in 2009. a risky policy because it increased budget deficits. but as soon as there was a recovery in growth - which was thought to be slow at the beginning of the year - a policy of fiscal consolidation was initiated, of gradual reduction of budget deficits, not in a brutal way, but gradually. even for this year, we still have a slightly expansionary effect. we have been conducting a smart monetary policy. the markets have always been liquid, so there has not been, as in the 1930s, a liquidity breakdown. the policy of low interest rates has been implemented so that recovery can take place and the budgets of the member states are not affected by very high interest rates. we have pursued a prudent, wise and gradual policy on the budgetary and monetary front. why would you do that? not for the sake of making serious budget cuts, as we are going to do now, not for the sake of reducing debt, but to have sustainable economic growth, to have a fruitful employment policy. all these efforts are in the service of employment, to reduce unemployment. there is a great social purpose in every effort we make. we're not doing this for the pleasure of reducing debts and deficits. it is only a tool: the objective, of course, is employment and the reduction of unemployment. and as the vice-president of the commission has just said, to put this in an even more social context, we have included the poverty target in our 2020 objectives. we had to fight to get it. we have integrated an education policy and we are maintaining a cohesion policy. the structural funds are being maintained, and i hope they will be maintained in the financial perspectives that are to be drawn up, so that living standards are the most balanced in the european union. the aim of all our action is therefore a highly social aim, the rest are only instruments. i wanted to tell you that at the end of this debate.
president van rompuy, thank you very much for your report from the european council and for the discussions with us. we look forward to your next important discussions with the european parliament. the next european council will be in october, so there will not be a big break between now and then.
i fully support parliament's position on mountain regions, islands and sparsely populated areas. these are usually areas of special natural value and care should be taken to combine support for them with the protection of natural assets. we should support these regions in such a way that they can make good use of what they have to offer in an innovative way, but also that they take care to protect this wealth in an appropriate way. i would also like to draw attention to the plight of farmers in those areas where farming may be the only or one of the very few means of subsistence. they need special care. this solidarity does not have to be limited to financial support, but also to supporting the education of young people and supporting innovative technologies.
in writing. - the most important thing from the point of view of poland, but also of the whole union, is that we have uniform regulations. today, a number of regulations have been incorporated into the legal order as part of the financial supervision package. the financial crisis has exposed a number of weaknesses in the global financial system, including the lack of proper supervision of financial institutions in europe. in response to these shortcomings, we have adopted proposals to strengthen the supervision of financial markets in the eu. poland has been in favour of the establishment of strong and independent supervisory authorities with the ability to issue binding decisions at supranational level from the outset. we wanted the supervisory bodies, which will be european in nature, to be very strong and have a very wide range of competences. this objective has been largely achieved. it must be considered that a satisfactory solution has been found. one that reconciles the national interests of 27 countries. this is largely due to the european parliament. for the first time, meps spoke with one voice on financial matters and agreed on the merits of the decisions taken.
in writing. − the crisis has highlighted the weakness of the eu's supervisory framework divided along national borders and the need for better supervision of cross-border financial institutions. european policymakers have recognised the need to establish a single system of financial supervision. the european commission has been working hard for a year to establish a european framework for this supervision. from the outset, parliament pushed for strong eu control of financial markets, convincing the council and the commission to adopt its position. three new supervisory bodies will be established, whose powers will go far beyond the advisory nature of the current supervisory committees. the fourth body, the european systemic risk board (esrb), will be tasked with closely monitoring the market situation and warning of emerging risks in the european economy. economic and monetary union requires the establishment of a well-functioning european system of financial supervision and today's vote is an important step in that direction.
in writing. - as a strong supporter of the protection of authors, i believe that their rights are often protected in an illusory way, on paper, and that technical means make it easy to circumvent copyright. i am also against the criminalization of internet users sharing files for private use i believe, as do consumer organizations, that this is the result of the lack of a clear, legal offer that users could easily take advantage of. it would be better if we facilitated legal access to protected goods online, for example on eu-wide platforms offering such goods for free or for a nominal fee, with advertisers covering the licence fees. thinking creatively, you have to adapt the law to the realities of the 21st century! in our resolution, which was unfortunately rejected, we proposed the promotion of new economic models that would allow for real funding and a clear distribution of income for creators. the marielle gallo report takes a restrictive approach to the phenomenon of downloading files from the internet, penalising it on an equal footing with the production of counterfeit medicines or car parts, which is grossly disproportionate. the proposed 'non-legislative measures' to improve law enforcement raise concerns for me about fundamental rights. i think that by adopting the marielle gallo resolution, parliament has sent a very bad signal to the public about how it understands the balance between intellectual property law and fundamental rights. i hope that common sense will return when we discuss the draft specific legislation.
in writing. − marielle gallo, in her report on improving the enforcement of intellectual property rights in the internal market, highlights the role and importance of intellectual property rights, patent law, the fight against counterfeiting in health and safety sensitive sectors, the creation and promotion of formats accessible to disabled people, the creation of a single market in the digital environment, industrial espionage online and the theft of industrial property data. these are all extremely important issues that require concrete solutions. gallo stresses the importance of adapting the european regulatory framework for imps to current trends in society as well as to technical developments. the commission is proposing the creation of a european observatory on counterfeiting and piracy. the most controversial were the ipr infringement and the sale of counterfeit products online. gallo calls on all actors to adopt specific warning and information measures on the value of copyright and the impact of ipr infringements and counterfeiting on employment and growth, and stresses the importance of educating young people in this regard. i have therefore decided to support this report as it contributes to better protection of intellectual property rights in the internal market.
for the commission, - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed on behalf of the high representative, lady ashton, that i have the honour of speaking before you. i would like to assure you at the outset, on behalf of the european union, that the european union is concerned about the human rights situation in the democratic republic of the congo and deplores the deterioration of the situation of human rights defenders, as evidenced by the recent attacks and attacks against them. the issue of sexual violence is a particularly alarming one among these concerns. the democratic republic of the congo has certainly come a long way and is still plagued by conflicts, limited but very dramatic for the people. it is, in fact, faced with considerable tasks in order to complete its reconstruction. of course, all the problems in this country can be put in their difficult context, but it is still impossible to justify all of them. in their report of 8 march, the seven independent un experts expressed regret at the lack of progress in the human rights situation in the country and noted in particular that the government's efforts should be intensified. the rights and security of individuals, in the broadest sense of the term, are at the very heart of the raison d'être of states. they should therefore be the main priorities in the efforts to rebuild and consolidate the rule of law in the democratic republic of the congo. a few weeks ago, in luvungi, the people of north kivu province, in the east of the democratic republic of congo, were again witnessing, victims of, the infamous gang rape perpetrated for days by criminal groups, the fdlr and their local allies, the mai-mai. the latest figures we have and confirmed by the united nations are at least 500 victims. this tragedy, which unfortunately is only one episode among many, must lead the authorities to redouble their efforts to better protect the civilian population, to find political agreements that will stabilise the region and thus neutralize the harmful elements that terrorize the province of kivu. this tragedy also highlights, in the worst possible way, the scale of the work that must be done before basic issues, such as security reform, without which the consolidation of the rule of law cannot be achieved, can finally be achieved. how can we imagine that the congolese state can regain control of its territory without an army, police forces or a well-trained, well-managed, well-paid judicial apparatus? if the democratic republic of congo is to assume its responsibilities, and this at all levels, the international community must do the same. the un secretary-general, mr ban ki-moon, understood this well, since an inquiry was launched to understand the reasons for the inaction of monusco, whose mandate is focused on the protection of the population. it is to be hoped that monusco will be strengthened in this way, as its role there remains essential. on the other hand, the following question must be asked. what can the european and international courts do? mrs wallström, the un secretary-general's special representative on violence against women in conflict, has called for those responsible to be brought to justice. we fully support this call, in line with the joint statement of 27 august by the high representative, catherine ashton, and the commissioner for development, andris piebalgs. however, if there is a general problem raised by the luvungi tragedy, it is that of impunity. it is not only the rebels who commit crimes. the police have also shown similarly reprehensible behaviour. the whole functioning of the judiciary in the democratic republic of congo is therefore the real issue. it is clear that most of the efforts to be made can only be conceived as part of a long-term action. however, it must not be forgotten that in the fight against impunity, as in any other issue, people generally look to the example of the authorities. in this respect, and to mention just one case, the current investigation into the murder of human rights defender mr floribert chebeya is probably a test case, as this case is emblematic of the internal contradictions that sometimes face this country. the european union is of course following this matter very closely and, following this death, the union, through the high representative, catherine ashton, has asked the authorities of the democratic republic of congo to shed light on the death of this human rights defender. let me conclude by saying how much the european union stands and will stand with the democratic republic of congo in this fight for justice and against impunity. to this end, the support of the international community, in particular the european union and its member states, for the electoral process to be held between 2011 and 2013 will be particularly important in establishing a political environment based on democratic principles and the rule of law. we have also regularly supported the creation of an independent expert position in the human rights council at the united nations, which could support the congolese government's efforts in this regard. unfortunately, our efforts have not yet been successful. we hope to be able to continue the dialogue with the congolese authorities in order to make progress in this area. the european union will remain particularly committed to cooperation in the fields of justice, police, military and human rights, not to mention assistance to victims. the european union is ready to strengthen this operation in the context of a genuine dialogue with the democratic republic of congo.
on behalf of the ppe group. the democratic republic of congo is experiencing one of the most serious humanitarian crises in recent years. the rapes in late july and early august, while horrifying in themselves, are just one episode in a series of tragic events. in the congo, more than a thousand women are raped every month, and tens of thousands of children are soldiers. sexual violence is a method to terrorize and punish congolese people who support the wrong side of the conflict. sexual violence is so widespread that doctors without borders says that 75 percent of all rapes in the world take place in eastern congo. the problem is also that the world's largest peacekeeping force, the un, monusco, is doing little to stop this. the debate over when monusco learned of these latest rapes, whether five days, two weeks, or a week after, is embarrassing. the monusco base was 10 miles from where these rapes took place, and the main method the un uses to stop sexual violence is to put signs on houses that say rape is inhuman. we're not gonna be able to eliminate this thing with this method. to make matters worse, un soldiers themselves were involved in a sex scandal a few years ago, accused of forcing girls into prostitution. perhaps the problem is even deeper and there is really no will in monusco to fight this pathological phenomenon. the european union must be decisive on this issue. she needs to be focused on helping the victims. the matter is urgent because we are going to have the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly in kinshasa at the beginning of december and this culture of impunity, of helplessness - i agree with the belgian presidency - must be ended, because we will have to face ourselves.
this is another debate about the situation in the democratic republic of congo and what, as someone said, is largely in the name of democracy where human rights are violated every day. we are talking today about violence against the most vulnerable, especially women who are raped, children who are drawn into the army, among other things, this illegal army. we're talking about rape, torture, murder, this violence that is mostly carried out with impunity, a violence that is so pervasive that it's hard to even talk about any kind of cultural or other kind of tolerance. we're talking about violence that is committed by guerrillas, but also by soldiers of the army and civilians. we're talking about women who have no one to defend them. we must not forget that we are - paradoxically - discussing one of the poorest, yet most resource-rich, regions of the world and africa. these resources should be sufficient to meet the needs of all its inhabitants. we must not forget that this is another manifestation of a disaster that has cost tens of thousands of lives and resulted in some 200,000 rapes in the last ten years. how many cases are unreported, we can only guess. the situation is a matter of deep concern, also in the deliberations of the human rights committee of our parliament. the question arises of the effectiveness of the united nations forces, of the impunity for crimes committed by both the guerrillas and others crimes that must be judged. i think that the meeting between the acp countries and the european parliament is also a great opportunity to put an end to this inhuman situation. with the crisis in the congo, the international community must take the initiative. it is also our task - the european parliament's - to speak out.
we are discussing this because we are concerned about the situation in the congo, and because the people of this country are not guaranteed their basic rights, and because we are appalled by the fact that the reports of the human rights monitoring organizations are particularly alarming in the case of the congo. but our discussions after the lisbon treaty should have one specific addressee. these are the people who are responsible for foreign policy in the european union. foreign policy towards africa is not controversial. it would therefore seem easier if we could formulate rules for joint action. and that's why today we have to address the causes of what's happening in the congo. we shouldn't stop at humanitarian aid. we should be engaging in education projects, we should be engaging in infrastructure development projects, we should be engaging in projects that help build a modern state in the congo. and that's the kind of program we expect.
fifty years after its independence, congo is still a country in a state of war, in a state of constant conflict, a country that is being called, in a macabre way, the rape capital of the world. the shocking events of the past two months, hundreds of women and children (boys and girls) raped, show that kinshasa is not coping with the systematic pogroms organized by the rebels. rape has become a common weapon of war in the congo. the latest crimes by militias have been committed in the vicinity of the un international forces, which are in fact the only effective stabilizing force in the country. kinshasa must put an end to impunity, guarantee the safety of the civilian population, effectively combat the widespread corruption and finally create a real army with properly trained soldiers. congo is rich in mineral resources, but unfortunately it is a victim of its own wealth. in this country of ten million, three quarters of the population live on less than a dollar a day. this country has become an african territory of plunder of natural resources. the illegal race for raw materials is driving them into poverty, chaos and humanitarian disaster. the international community must bring about a dramatic resolution of the conflict, and the international companies must guarantee the legal origin of the raw materials. only a stable congo can guarantee peace in the region.
today's debate on the democratic republic of congo is a stark reminder of the seriousness of human rights violations in that country. for years, the world's media have been reporting on the crimes that are being committed there. the democratic republic of congo is the scene of the worst crimes against basic human rights. it is estimated that some four million people have already died in the congo conflict. about 3.5 million have been forced to flee and abandon their homes. murder, rape, kidnapping of children and forcing them into armed militias are the horrifying daily realities faced by the people of this country. it is therefore the duty of the entire international community, and above all of the european union, to fight to force the congolese authorities to take effective action to put an immediate end to the killings and persecution. we can't leave the victims to fend for themselves. it is high time for europe to wake up and act effectively.
in writing. the upcoming eu-south africa and eu-africa summits must be a turning point in the efforts to end the violence in the democratic republic of congo. the rapid implementation of global solutions to address human rights violations is essential. for years, this region has been plagued by slaughter, rape, murder, torture. the tribal fighting is escalating. everyone's fighting everyone now. the biggest casualties, as always, are civilians, including millions of children. a child dies every minute in the congo. most children die from disease and malnutrition. we all have a sense of urgency to help the people who live there. but at the same time, we're showing a surprising lack of help and capacity. in poland, more than 650 schools joined the 'save the children of congo' campaign in 2008. we managed to raise $470k, which was donated to needy children in the democratic republic of congo. a eurobarometer survey published on 13 september showed that 89% of europeans strongly support aid to developing countries. despite the efforts of individual nations and international organizations, the situation is not improving. our resolution must not be another expression of goodwill but a clear blueprint for the necessary and urgent action that the union will take to protect human rights and justice and bring us closer to the millennium development goals.
in writing. we are dealing today with the violation of the basic norms of international humanitarian law in the democratic republic of congo, a country that only appears to be democratic in name. i would like to condemn in the strongest possible terms the recent mass rapes of women and children and all other forms of violence against dozens of innocent civilians in eastern congo. the 15,000 reported rapes in 2008 and 2009 and those in late july and august 2010 testify to the deeply ingrained culture of impunity for such crimes. sexual violence is used as a weapon of war and should therefore be punished as war crimes and crimes against humanity. i call on all parties to the conflict in the region to end all forms of sexual violence and other human rights violations and to allow humanitarian organisations access to civilians in need. i call on the government of the democratic republic of the congo, in cooperation with the international institutions, to continue its efforts to combat impunity, to immediately investigate the latest attacks and to ensure that the perpetrators are brought to justice.
in writing. the conflict in the democratic republic of congo is undeniably one of the most brutal in the last decade. despite much pressure from the international community, the situation has not improved. this is evidenced by the continuing reports of brutal violations of fundamental human rights by all parties to the conflict. murder, torture, sexual violence, repression of opposition and human rights defenders, as well as numerous arrests, persecutions and cruel torture remain commonplace. even child soldiers are not spared, who are enlisted en masse in the fighting ranks. extremely brutal acts of sexual violence, against girls, old men, and men alike, have become an integral part of warfare on a massive scale. so far, the international community, both the un and the eu, have been unable to address the situation and stop the massacres in the congo. this is an absolutely unacceptable situation. strong steps must be taken to effectively influence the actions of the congolese authorities. the congolese government should prosecute the perpetrators, ensure that perpetrators are held accountable for their actions and provide adequate security measures for its citizens. victims of the past need help and comfort. good medical care is essential. it will be many years before they can recover from the many atrocities that have befallen them, and some of them will remain forever excluded from normal social life. their well-being should be a priority for both the congolese authorities and the international community.
on behalf of the ecr group. i would not like to focus on what has been the subject of debate here, i.e. the issue of payment, the issue of the fee itself, the issue of the possible use of data and information that can be obtained in this way. i'd like to think about the most important thing. in the european union, and in this parliament, we are trying to ensure that all eu countries are treated equally. unfortunately, there is no such treatment on this issue by the us side, because some european union countries are still subject to the visa requirement, while most are not. and i think it is the task of this parliament, but also of all the other institutions of the european union, to ensure that all the countries of the european union, regardless of when they joined the union, are treated equally. i say this on behalf of the citizens of my country, but also of the other countries that joined the european union in 2004.
commissioner, mr elmar brok has forgotten that poland also has visas for the united states, and that is very incomprehensible. i would like to call on the house to take action on this matter, because it is a serious matter. but to treat visas as a procedural issue, to treat the visa issue and all these other strange, incomprehensible fees as an opportunity to flex your muscles against the united states, that's not the way to go either. if someone sees visas as just a procedural issue or a reason to push politics, they don't understand what visas are in the present day. they are the most political instrument of cooperation. and that's why i would appeal to both the commissioner and the members of the house to improve relations with congress. we have the right as meps to appeal to congress, to press for a different approach to the issue of visas in general. they are a barrier between citizens and in fact one of the biggest political barriers to transatlantic cooperation. until we figure that out, we're not gonna do any good.
we have a situation where there are lawmakers in this room from countries where citizens don't need visas to enter the united states. but unfortunately, there are also lawmakers in this room from countries like poland, where you have to apply for a u.s. visa. in poland, this visa is obtained through a lengthy procedure, which unfortunately is sometimes also a humiliating procedure. citizens of my country pay over $100 when they get a visa, but they have to pay when they don't get a visa. so we are all about european solidarity. we are very much concerned about the very clear position of the european parliament, the european commission and the council that citizens of all the countries that make up the union must be treated exactly the same. i am glad that the european commission and the council are not only talking about this here in europe, but that this view is being expressed more and more in contacts with the united states administration. but it is worth asking ourselves in this parliament: what can we as parliamentarians do together to solve the problem of the citizens of these few countries? it seems that the most important thing here is our relationship with the united states congress, because in the us legal system, the role of the us congress in determining visa policy and tax policy is very important. i also wanted to express my great satisfaction that for the first time the commission and council representatives are saying that there is a light in this tunnel, that there is a chance that citizens of countries such as poland will not have to have visas to the usa relatively soon.
president of the council. - mr president, i would like to remind the honourable member of the end of my speech. i have said that the belgian presidency's programme contains a whole series of topics which should strengthen our cooperation, particularly in the field of defence, and that belgium devoted many initiatives to esdp during its presidency, in the form of many seminars and reflections on capacity issues in particular. and i can only refer to the current events, that is to say the discussion which will be animated and fed by the defence ministers tomorrow and the day after tomorrow in belgium on the occasion of an informal 'defence' council which will take place in ghent. - thank you. - thank you.
i would like to ask an additional question, because the minister has informed us that there will be an informal meeting of the defence ministers of the european union tomorrow and the day after. i have a question to ask you: combat groups have been set up within the union, and they are still only combat groups on paper. is this a matter that will be discussed in these discussions? will we continue to maintain the fiction, or will the union have groups that can be used at any time?
president of the council. the council welcomed the fact that the accession negotiations with croatia have made considerable progress and are entering their final phase. the european union welcomes the considerable efforts made by croatia during the past year and the progress made, in particular with regard to compliance with the criteria set in the negotiations. generally speaking, at this stage the accession conference was able to open 33 of the 35 chapters and to close 23 of them provisionally. it is essential that croatia, building on the progress already made, continue its reform efforts, in particular in key areas such as justice and public administration, the fight against corruption and organised crime, respect for and protection of minorities, including the return of refugees and prosecution of war crimes, as well as in the economic field, in order to report a convincing track record in these areas. the belgian presidency is determined, in accordance with its work programme, to help croatia make decisive progress in the negotiations by closing as many chapters as possible as quickly as possible. in this respect, it is essential that croatia completes the reforms i have just mentioned and meets all the other criteria within the timeframe. in particular, the chapters which are still to be examined by the member states and which could, if appropriate, be provisionally concluded if they consider that the closure criteria they have set have been met by croatia are: competition policy (chapter 8), agriculture and rural development (chapter 11), fisheries (chapter 13), regional policy and coordination of structural instruments (chapter 22), the judiciary and fundamental rights (chapter 23), justice, freedom and security (chapter 24), the environment (chapter 27), external security and defence policy (chapter 31) and financial and budgetary provisions (chapter 33). three chapters are currently on the council table for a provisional closure decision: free movement of capital (chapter 4), transport policy (chapter 14) and institutions (chapter 34), and, to be complete, chapter 35 (various issues) will have to be considered last, at a later stage.
president of the council. - it is our job to assess progress on the ground in croatia, so i cannot give you a timetable. this depends on croatia's own merits and the progress of the reforms implemented. but at the end of the process, and in the light of an exchange and contact i had with my croatian counterpart, it is indeed foreseen that the croatian people will decide on croatia's accession to the european union.
i wanted to ask the minister a question that i think is important. you said that 33 of the 35 chapters had been opened and the minister described the progress of those 33 chapters. so my question is different. what two negotiating chapters have not yet been opened? because it seems to me that this is a case of crucial importance.
president of the council. − on 10 march 2010, the council and the european parliament adopted directive 2010/13/eu on audiovisual media services, which updates the legal framework governing television broadcasting and other audiovisual media services in the union. article 6 of that directive provides that member states are to take appropriate measures to ensure that audiovisual media services provided by providers under their jurisdiction do not contain any incitement to hatred on grounds of race, sex, religion or nationality. it is therefore up to the member states to ensure that the directive is implemented and it is up to the commission, as guardian of the treaties, to check that it is properly implemented. according to article 2 of that directive, a member state is also competent for programmes broadcast by organisations established outside the union, if these organisations use satellite capacity belonging to the member state. in the specific case mentioned by the honourable member, the council understands that the commission has brought this matter to the attention of the competent french authority, the csa, which is currently examining it. it is therefore not for the council to comment on this ongoing investigation.
i do not agree with the last part of your statement, because i think it is the responsibility of the council and the commission to draw attention to such recurrent, bad aspects of the operation of this satellite operator. this is another time to pay attention to the fact that this television is back on the air, bypassing the law, which at the moment does not work at all. so the question is, what can we do to make sure that this cat and mouse game is never repeated?
i take that remark very seriously. i have with me president rouček, who will shortly be taking over the presidency and will certainly be able to add to your voice as needed. maybe not five minutes if the allotted time was two minutes, but say 50% you'll be able to exceed the speaking time. that's a lot. if someone had two minutes, they'll have three. this is a big change.
yes, you're right, but in individual cases, on special request, we'll extend it a little. i wanted to ask commissioner fule to open our discussion. we ask you, commissioner, to speak on behalf of the commission.
the next item on the agenda is a statement by the commission on the future allocation of the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument to the budget of crossborder cooperation programmes.
on behalf of the ecr group. after these few years of experience, one thing can be said crossborder cooperation under the neighbourhood policy does not work. that's not a success. we certainly need to clarify the responsibilities of the various managing authorities in the context of regional development, in the context of neighbourhood, in the context of crossborder cooperation. we certainly need to do something about the procedures, because they are now deterring the regions, both european and neighbouring, from cooperating with dg relex. we need to bring these institutions together. there's another problem. in addition to these procedural changes that are needed, we need to do something to make the policy on neighbourhood policy more clear. we can clearly see that morocco is not happy with the fact that it has to operate in the same political and financial framework as the countries of eastern europe. we see clearly that russia, on the one hand, wants privileged rights within the neighbourhood, and on the other hand, treats the neighbourhood as an element of european imperialism. we encourage it to do so, and we continue to offer it a very privileged status, for example in the context of the partnership for modernisation. so we have two problems to solve: first, procedural changes, and second, policy changes so that everyone knows what this neighborhood is. is this a substitute for membership? is this a step towards membership or, on the contrary, a step towards weakening the political relations between europe and its neighbours?
the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument, together with its crossborder cooperation programme, is a major eu initiative combining international and interregional cooperation. it deserves further support as it brings together regions on the european union's external border. however, the condition is that the instrument's procedures are streamlined and that clear and understandable rules for its operation are laid down. it is good that a large part of the funds provided under the instrument is allocated to cooperation with countries in europe, i.e. ukraine and belarus. in this context, we should continue to put pressure on the belarusian authorities to finally start listening to the citizens' demands for pluralism and democracy. positive signals from the regime of readiness to undertake reforms will allow the full use of the eur 228 million allocated under the instrument and will also allow belarus to participate fully in all dimensions of cooperation within the eastern partnership. however, if the lukashenka regime is not ready to cooperate, consideration should be given to transferring these funds to regional cooperation with ukraine.
the eastern partnership is the first and only foreign policy initiative of my country, poland, which has been accepted by brussels and the european union as a whole. its real political purpose is to bring the six post-soviet countries into the union. it's not in the founding documents, but we know it's there. the project has come at a good time. two crises - first the georgian crisis and then the gas crisis between russia and ukraine - have clearly shown eu leaders that this part of europe to the east of the union is worth taking an interest in. in december, the commission allocated eur 600 million for this purpose. today, however, the enthusiasm is waning, and even in this room the meaning of the eastern partnership is being questioned. the german representative, the socialists, says that if germany is giving billions of euros to greece, then the program of support for the post-soviet countries makes no sense. it's a dilemma whether to wear shoes or socks. this is a false alternative. it takes both. europe is not just an economy, it's not just the exchange of capital, the cross-industry flows. it's also a love of freedom. europe owes the post-soviet countries that have been behind the iron curtain for 50 years a step forward in freedom, a step forward in civilisation, and this is what the strengthening of the eastern partnership programme should serve to do. therefore, seeing that difficulties are arising, specific doubts about the lack of flexibility of procedures and problems with the implementation of specific projects, it is necessary to give serious thought to the revision of the instrument so that very nice records on paper are reflected in real activities, because it is really worthwhile.
i'm not going to let you do this. i think that the enlargement of the union to the east - which i know the commissioner feels very strongly about and understands very well - is one of the most important responsibilities of the european union. because it is both our moral duty and our political interest. because it is in the best interest of us, of those who are already members of the european union, to extend the area of political stability, economic stability, political transparency to the east. indeed, the enlargement of the european union to include countries such as democratic belarus, ukraine, moldavia, which we have been talking about here, but also georgia and other countries in the post-soviet area, is in the best interests of the european union as a whole and in the best interests of those countries which are currently outside the european union. i think that all the political groups in this parliament will support you, commissioner, in making this integration as rapid and as efficient as possible.
i would like to start by thanking the commissioner for his specific presentation and express my conviction that both the commission's analysis of the experience gained in 2007-2009 and today's discussion will contribute to a better implementation of the objectives of the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument's crossborder cooperation strategy. i shall not go into the procedural issues and the need to simplify them, because at least three of my previous speakers have spoken about this. however, given that building the right administrative capacity is also an important factor in the proper use of european funds, also at regional and local level, i would like to ask how the commission plans to support the cooperation of regional and local governments from the european union with their partners under the european instrument, and in particular in the eastern partnership countries. and the second thing. as the objectives of crossborder cooperation set out by the commission are long-term objectives, i would like to ask how this programme could contribute to increasing the mobility of young people. as we know, this is one of the priorities in the draft budget for the coming years, as an effective way of strengthening the european union's cooperation with its neighbours.
on behalf of the ecr group. commissioner, i too would like to join those who say that your speech was a bit disappointing, because this issue should be a key issue for us. there are about seven million people in these camps. these are people who are very often persecuted because of their religious or political views. it should be our moral and political duty to counter that. it is indeed difficult to get the impression that this prison system is not similar to the soviet gulag or even in name because laogai is reparation through work as the famous inscription in the german nazi concentration camp in auschwitz-birkenau arbeit macht frei. so we cannot just walk around this and this issue should be absolutely central in all eu-china talks, but also, as i understand it, in all eu-china talks. this is a key issue and i urge the commissioner to put this on the agenda of every meeting with the chinese authorities.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 23 september 2010.
on monday, hungary suffered the worst disaster in its history. a leak from a tank containing highly toxic red sludge has claimed the lives of at least three people. hundreds are wounded. on behalf of the european parliament, i would like to express our solidarity with the families of the dead and the injured. ladies and gentlemen! fellow workers! tomorrow is the big anniversary, the fourth anniversary of the murder of anna politovsky. as we remember, she dedicated her life to uncovering the truth about the situation in the north caucasus. we know how important independent journalism is in any community. we honoured mrs politowski's determination in the fight for freedom of speech and the press by naming one of the rooms in our brussels press centre after her. in remembering her sacrifice, we also remember others: natalia estemirowa, anastasia baburova, human rights lawyers stanislav markiełov, sergey magnitsky and many others. the men responsible for their deaths have still not been caught. we encourage the russian authorities to fully commit to ensuring the rule of law and ending lawlessness and impunity in the north caucasus region. (laughter) (applause) the 10th of october is the international day for the abolition of the death penalty. i reiterate my call to the european parliament to introduce a moratorium on the death penalty in all countries of the world. death can never be an act of justice. we welcome the changes in this respect in countries such as russia, burundi and togo, but unfortunately in japan and the usa the death penalty is still carried out. we believe that public debate in these democratic countries can help change this. but what worries us most is the number of death sentences being carried out in countries like china and iran. we call on the governments, the authorities of these countries to stop this kind of practice. (laughter) (applause)
− the final draft agenda drawn up in accordance with rule 140 of the rules of procedure was distributed by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 23 september 2010. in agreement with the political groups, i would like to inform the house of the following amendments: (most political groups, and even the vast majority in some cases, are in favour of these changes.) wednesdayadded to agenda: council and commission statements on the social provisions of the lisbon treaty following the joint debate on biodiversity. remove from the agenda the oral question on containers lost at sea and compensation. thursday. the vote will begin at 11.30. removal from the agenda of the vote on the report by mr mańka on draft amending budget no 2/2010, part 2, because the council has not adopted a position on this subject and therefore this debate cannot take place.
thank you for your clarification, my friend. it follows that this item is on the agenda, with the group of the european people's party abstaining. most of the other political groups wanted to put it right. (the agenda was set)
welcome to the european parliament, mr president. welcome once again after 18 years.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i will start by remarks in english, and then i will switch to portuguese, and then back to english. i would be able to address you in five of the european languages, but i will not do that because i will get confused myself, so i will stick to two: english and portuguese. i am grateful for the privilege to address this august institution, the embodiment of europe’s rich cultural diversity and its democratic political culture and institutions. my admiration for europe and for the institutions you have created, for the road you have walked from disunity, rivalries and wars to unity, partnership and peace, democracy, inclusion and prosperity, as well as for your deep belief in solidarity among peoples, led me as a nobel peace prize laureate in 2008 to nominate the european union and the european commission for the nobel peace prize. at one end of the globe, there is the overwhelming influence and shadow of the only surviving superpower. at the other end, there is asia with the shadow of two emerging asian giants looming over the rest of the region. in between, there can be the european bridge – a bridge that could connect all in a new partnership for peace and prosperity. this europe of inclusion extends from the beautiful atlantic coast that bathes portugal to the edges of the old continent where asia begins. as i speak here, i am particularly grateful to this august institution, to many of its esteemed members, to the european commission and in particular to its president, our friend josé manuel durão barroso, who has stood behind us for over three decades in our long quest for freedom. as a young politician and diplomat, first as secretary of state, then as foreign minister and later as prime minister of portugal, he was a wise and passionate advocate for timor leste, as he was also for africa, asia and latin america. but i would fail in my duty if i were not to thank the many other members of the european parliament, some of whom are no longer here because of the irreversible ageing process from which none of us can escape. what we found in this institution from all spectrums, from left and from right, was that you gave us a forum when nowhere else gave us a voice to speak. it was, for instance, the portuguese members of the european parliament from all parties who, in the 1990s, gave a portion of their own salaries to the person who is today our foreign minister, dr zacarias da costa. he was here for five years as a representative of the timorese resistance, and it was the portuguese members of the european parliament from left and right who every month would give us some financial assistance to keep an office going here in brussels. it was also this institution that gave us for the first time anywhere in the world a pass, an identity card, representing timor leste in parliament to advocate the cause of timor leste. so, in coming back here, i come with an immense sense of gratitude to all of you. allow me to turn now to portuguese, and i will address the issue of the millennium development goals, how we are doing in my country, and what we expect the international community to do to assist us and others. timor-leste não era um país independente em 2000 e só na apresentação do nosso primeiro relatório sobre os odm em 2004 que estabelecemos as primeiras metas a atingir. durante os últimos três anos, timor-leste tem vindo a viver uma verdadeira paz, que possibilitou um crescimento económico robusto de mais de 12%/ano, a redução dos níveis de pobreza de 9% durante os últimos dois anos, a redução da mortalidade infantil e da mortalidade de crianças com menos de 5 anos de idade, atingindo mesmo já as metas estabelecidas para o ano 2015, a inscrição escolar cresceu de 65% em 2007 para 83% em 2009-2010, o analfabetismo das pessoas adultas tem sido gradualmente eliminado graças a um programa conjunto entre timor leste e cuba. antecipamos, desde já, a erradicação do analfabetismo em timor-leste dentro de dois a três anos. por volta de 30% do orçamento geral do estado está a ser afectado à saúde pública e à educação. esta reviravolta foi graças a um financiamento público agressivo em programas sociais tais como a transferência directa em dinheiro para idosos, viúvas, deficientes e veteranos, bem como em esforços determinados na expansão de áreas cultivadas e no incremento da produção de bens alimentares. estamos a finalizar o roadmap do nosso plano de desenvolvimento estratégico de 2010-2030, que possibilitará a libertação do nosso povo de séculos de pobreza e elevar o nível de vida do nosso povo para a classe média-alta em 2030. relativamente à gestão dos nossos recursos petrolíferos é uma satisfação poder notar que a iniciativa de transparência nas indústrias extractivas, ou seja extractive industries transparency initiative (eiti), classificou timor-leste, no seu relatório de 1 de julho de 2010, como o primeiro na ásia e terceiro no mundo no que diz respeito à solidez, transparência e efectividade na gestão dos lucros provenientes do gás e do petróleo. por volta de 30% dos deputados no nosso parlamento nacional são mulheres. no executivo, os ministérios-chave como finanças, justiça, solidariedade social, procuradoria-geral da república, etc., são liderados por mulheres. temos um parlamento permanente da juventude com 130 membros, acabado de ser eleito em todo o país. os jovens eleitos para esse parlamento da juventude têm idades compreendidas entre 12 e 17 anos. foi sempre nosso desejo que houvesse equilíbrio do género no parlamento da juventude. no entanto, a nossa expectativa foi ultrapassada. o parlamento jovem é constituído por 68 jovens deputadas do sexo feminino e 62 rapazes deputados. timor-leste tem o orgulho de ter adoptado uma das constituições mais humanistas do mundo, onde a pena de morte é proibida, sendo a sentença de prisão máxima de 25 anos, não temos prisão perpétua. ratificámos todos os principais tratados internacionais de direitos humanos. já apresentámos dois relatórios dos tratados às instituições relevantes e continuaremos a investir os nossos esforços no sentido de reforçar ainda mais o respeito pelos direitos humanos, pela liberdade e pela dignidade para todos. a nossa constituição reconhece o primado do direito internacional sobre as leis nacionais, isto é, todas as nossas leis devem conformar-se com o direito internacional. e agora, com permissão, mudo para inglês. i will now address the issue of climate change – obviously very superficially because of the time constraints here. while it is a fact that the rich and powerful contributed most to the deteriorating world environment, we acknowledge that the advance of science, technology and industries in the last 200 years has brought enormous benefits to all, even if those benefits have been distributed in an unequal manner. but we in the developing world should not put all the blame on the rich and powerful for the harm done to the planet. we must acknowledge our share of responsibility in the destruction of our forests, lakes, rivers and seas. asia has no less responsibility than the us and europe to reverse the climate calamity. we are almost half of the planet’s inhabitants. this alone means that we put enormous pressure on the land, minerals, forests and water. to modernise our economies and improve the lives of hundreds of millions of the poor in asia, we are using increasingly more energy extracted from planet earth. many of the emerging powers of asia are also now crossing oceans, searching for energy elsewhere – in africa and latin america. therefore timor leste – working together with the maldives, two of the smallest countries in asia – calls for an asian common agenda on sustainable development anchored on environmental protection and recovery, on land and water management, health and education for all, and on the elimination of poverty and illiteracy. i have an appeal to the rich and the powerful. the rich and the powerful should ask themselves whether they have delivered on the pledges made in front of tv cameras and whether past policies have been effective in addressing under-development and extreme poverty. all too often, leaders of the developing countries are blamed for the lack of improvements in the lives of our people, in spite of the generous development assistance we supposedly have received from the rich. but donors should also make an honest and critical analysis of the policies. we know there is a genuine sentiment of solidarity from men and women in the streets – in the us, europe and japan – towards their fellow human beings in poorer regions of the world, but donors must also streamline the lengthy, onerous, superfluous, wasteful, redundant and bureaucratic paperwork that drowns and discourages anyone in our countries. (applause) donors must invest more of every dollar they pledge in rural development, agriculture, food security, water and sanitation, roads, health and education. to strengthen national institutions and the democratically elected leaders, donors must provide more direct sectoral budget support to enable them to deliver services and development to the people. it is disheartening that only a handful of rich countries have met the target of 0.7% of gross national product for development assistance. at the same time, generous pledges made in the spotlight of international conferences – side by side with movie stars and rock singers – are largely forgotten the moment the hollywood curtains fall and the floodlights are turned off. it is even more disheartening to see how quickly tens of billions of dollars are easily found to rescue failed banks, insurance companies, fraudulent real estate agencies and obsolete auto industries, and how tens of millions of dollars in bonuses are paid to incompetents and crooks responsible for the financial debacle – and yet decades of appeals to the rich to increase foreign development assistance have been met with much resistance. we believe that one wise and fair way to assist countries suffering from the consequences of the financial meltdown is to write off the debt owed by the ldcs and small island developing states and to restructure the debt of the debtor countries that are facing enormous internal and external challenges – such as instability, climate change and extremism – in many parts of the world, particularly in south asia and the region of the great lakes of africa. timor leste is privileged in that we do not have a single cent in foreign debt, so our appeal to you is not motivated by self-interest. actually if you open the economies yearbook of 2010 – the pocketbook version – you will find some interesting data there. timor leste today has the highest surplus in the world as a percentage of its gdp and not a single cent in foreign debt. nevertheless, we feel in solidarity with those countries that for decades have incurred debt which they are today unable to pay and which entraps hundreds of millions of people in the world. if it has been possible to mobilise billions of dollars almost overnight to rescue failed banks and insurance companies, then there must also be the moral obligation and political wisdom to find the much smaller amount to meet the obligations of the developed countries towards the poor in the third world, to ratify some of the imbalances that are pervasive in the world today. as i speak here today with a deep sense of gratitude to you – to the european parliament, to european leaders and to all our development partners – i wish with humility also to acknowledge our own failings and our limitations. we in timor leste, and in much of the developing world, should not reverse roles by lecturing the west – in retribution for the west having lectured us for decades – but should also look at ourselves in the mirror and answer our own questions from our conscience. what have we ourselves done to lift the hundreds of millions of our people from extreme poverty? we can do that. we can all do better, in timor leste and elsewhere. we have made tremendous progress in the last three years. our country has only been independent for eight years. i have shared some of the figures with you, but there are many other areas of achievement that are not quantifiable. they are not measurable, but they are equally important. we have been able to heal the wounds of our society, reconcile separate communities and heal the wounds between us and indonesia with which we share a tragic history of 24 years. today timor leste and indonesia enjoy the best possible relationship of any two neighbours. we have been able to build bridges with the entire region. we have established diplomatic relations with more than 100 countries. these are non-quantifiable, non-measurable achievements. our people, in spite of the profound wounds of 24 years of occupation, do not harbour resentment towards anyone. these are our beliefs and our convictions. we are determined to live up to the expectations of our people and lead them towards a peaceful and prosperous future. may god, the almighty and the merciful, bless us all. (applause)
thank you very much, mr president. eighteen years ago, as leader of the opposition in east timor, you showed great courage and great vision. today you are the president of a free, democratic, independent country. congratulations to you, mr president, and all the best to your country and your people. thank you for your speech. (applause)
in writing. the use of the death penalty is based on the mistaken belief that the severity of the sentence is a deterrent to crime. in fact, the inevitability of punishment is the decisive preventive factor, not its severity. that's why it's important to have an effective criminal justice system. those who break the law must know that they will be caught and punished. in 2009, the highest executions were in china, iran, saudi arabia, north korea and the united states. the use of the death penalty has not been shown to reduce the number of the most serious crimes. thus, as civilized nations developed, they abandoned the death penalty, and earlier, they abandoned such forms of punishment as crushing a wheel, tearing horses apart, burning at the stake, or nailing people to a stake. these are practices that trigger the lowest instincts and result in the brutalization of social life. in poland, right-wing conservative parties are pushing for the reintroduction of the death penalty, for whom governing is tantamount to intimidating the public. such actions create social fear, uncertainty about the future, and in turn lead to even more violence and crime. the death penalty therefore produces the opposite of the intended effect. therefore, there is a need for proper education and awareness among the public that the death penalty does not solve the problem of the most serious crimes.
in writing. unfortunately, man is not a beautiful animal, to quote the great polish philosopher barbara skarga. many of us, citizens of free and democratic countries in the european union, are in favour of the death penalty. it's scary, but it's true. fortunately, the death penalty is not part of eu law and no eu government, even the most populist, can introduce it. but the european union should and wants to be a beacon for other countries by its values and by its respect for them. that's why it's important that we operate globally. perhaps the day against the death penalty proposed by the belgian presidency is a step in that direction. i hope it will focus our attention on this important issue and reinforce respect for every human being and our responsibility for human rights standards in the european union, but also in those parts of the world where the death penalty is used.
in writing. the european union has introduced a ban on the use of the death penalty. this is a summary of the process that has taken place in european countries, although there are still many supporters of this punishment in europe. it does not seem to be the role of the european parliament to take a position on the deterrent effect of the death penalty, especially since numerous studies, conducted recently mainly in us universities, show that the death penalty is deterrent. our role is to make sure that our communities are safe. given the current law in the european union, we should remember that just as we demand respect for our decision, we should respect the views of other democratic societies and not impose our vision of justice on them. the people of the united states, japan, or south korea have the right to make laws as they see fit. we in europe should remember that the abolition of the death penalty cannot be seen as condoning the most heinous of crimes, the crime of murder. in such cases we need severe, deterrent and isolating punishments, such as life imprisonment without the possibility of parole. because if we want to live in a safe society, we need to have strict laws against those who violate the basic human right - the right to life - and are often willing to violate it again against innocent people.
in writing. – as we move forward with our efforts to fully abolish the practice of capital punishment, it is important to recognise that there are 58 countries worldwide that still utilise capital punishment when sentencing in criminal cases and a handful of others that use it in particular situations such as wartime sentencing. the european union has worked diligently as a whole to abolish this inhumane practice and our continued efforts will pay great dividends. there is however work to be done; we have european neighbours that have not fully abolished this practice and it should remain our focus to continue our efforts toward complete abolition. it is my belief that through continued communication and resolve we will be successful. although it is clear that this practice violates fundamental human rights, many cultures around the world have laws that are based on other factors such as religion, tradition and control. these factors make the abolition of capital punishment increasingly difficult, but it is our duty not only as members of the parliament but as members of the human race to continue our tireless efforts to bring this practice to an end.
madam president! disasters like this, very spectacular events like the gulf of mexico spill, very often are the impetus for policy changes, for big regulatory reform projects. but acting on emotion is not always rational, and that is why i would urge that we take very, very, very careful steps to impose new obligations on companies, whether it be insurance, whether it be environmental standards, whether it be safety standards, because those standards in the european union are already the highest in the world. we're at a different stage of development on this part of the regulation. the only consequence of such hyperregulation could be to weaken europe's competitiveness and to give the mining industry an edge anywhere outside the european union. the same is true of a moratorium on offshore drilling: such a moratorium is likely to have the opposite effect. the moratorium means more ships coming to european shores, and therefore more threats to the environment. so i would urge both regulation and moratorium to be very, very careful.
madam president! this is the third debate in the european parliament and shows how much importance we attach to the safety of oil exploitation in european seas. we do not want the disaster that occurred in the gulf of mexico to be repeated on the coast of our continent. in the first three months of this year alone, there were 175 north sea rig failures, eight of which were classified as very serious. in 32 cases, these plants were shut down. and then there's the issue of platform wear. of the 103 platforms that were launched in the north sea in the early 1970s, 44 are due to reach the so-called technical death in five years, and 26 have already exceeded their permitted operating period, but have received renewed oil rights. the plants have also changed owners over the last 30 years; the new managers do not necessarily share the same safety culture. the pressure to maximize production is not matched by safety measures or a proper risk assessment. we therefore support commissioner oettinger's efforts to review the legal framework for oil exploitation on european seas and, if necessary, to introduce the new rules needed to address the risks of offshore oil production and to strengthen the liability rules for oil pollution accidents. it is necessary to establish the highest safety standards for deep-sea drilling in european seas and to apply them to all operators operating in european waters. this must also apply to companies from outside the european union. we cannot allow, for example, that if norway and russia exploit cereals in the arctic, one of those countries will use technology that does not meet the highest safety standards of european union companies.
madam president! the safety of extraction and transport of natural resources should be monitored by the european commission. in addition to optimal safety standards, the preparation of natural resource extraction and transport companies for emergencies that may cause large-scale environmental pollution should also be a key issue. we must not forget the necessary financial resources which should be provided for companies engaged in this type of economic activity. a pipeline will soon be put into operation to pump huge amounts of gas from the bottom of the baltic sea. i think this is a perfect opportunity to ask whether the european commission has done anything to safeguard the interests of the millions of europeans living on the baltic who could be victims of an ecological disaster of unprecedented scale as a result of the explosion or the opening of this pipeline. it is worth recalling that the european parliament's resolution on this matter two years ago, on the preparation of the environmental impact of this investment, has been completely ignored and this investment is already underway. what will the european commission do to ensure that we do not regret the time we have lost when disaster strikes?
madam president! the unprecedented environmental disaster in the gulf of mexico should prompt the eu countries to monitor rigs in the waters where oil is extracted. there are even proposals to impose a moratorium on new drilling until the risk of environmental danger is eliminated. they are based on the assumption that the oceans have no boundaries and that an ecological disaster is threatening them all. this is in line with the european parliament's resolution on the environmental threat to the baltic sea posed by the nordstream project two years ago. we hope that the european commission will take a similarly firm and sensible approach to monitoring gas investment in the baltic sea using all possible instruments. it is also worth considering whether alternative technologies such as shale gas extraction should not be supported at the same time.
madam president! in view of the events of the past few months and the complex situation on the fuel market following the disaster in the gulf of mexico, we should take certain and decisive steps to protect the environment and, above all, to prevent similar disasters in the future. efforts should be made to increase the safety of oil extraction. with proper precautions, experts tell us that oil companies have a relatively low accident rate. yes, that's true. but the circumvention of procedures, the pursuit of cost-saving at the expense of safety, means that disasters like the one in the gulf of mexico could happen in the future in europe as well. there are about 1,600 rigs operating worldwide, and the number is growing. new oil wells are being built, drilling rigs of ever-larger, ever-more powerful sizes. the mining reaches deeper and deeper into the sea. this is why the importance of conventional shafts is decreasing and the importance of rigs is increasing. the debate on safety is inevitable, and the reality may come as a surprise. it is necessary to subject oil companies to additional restrictions and to introduce new regulations that can improve safety. i know some countries have already taken control of the rigs on their own. the first inspections revealed some breaches of safety standards. it has been found that many north sea platforms have operated in violation of basic safety rules. i believe that preventive measures should be taken immediately to ensure that drilling platforms and all extraction sites for seabed resources are subject to appropriate regulation and supervision. it is necessary to introduce new safety standards and rules that will apply to all operators involved in and jointly responsible for oil extraction. the possession of valid certificates is a key requirement.
madam president! the removal of the barriers, the removal of the visa walls, will be a very happy moment not only for the people of albania, bosnia, but also for us, the people of the european union, because it will confirm that we are true to our values: openness to our neighbours. it'll also give us a safer neighborhood. while we welcome the efforts made to introduce visa-free travel and to tear down these walls for parts of the western balkans, we should nevertheless make a huge request and appeal to the european commission, to the commissioner, but also to our colleagues: let us remember the eastern partnership countries, let us remember at this moment ukraine, moldova and georgia. we have more challenges ahead of us. once we've reached one stage, let's think about the next. these countries - ukraine, moldova and georgia - have not even received the road maps, which we have already called for in this european parliament during this term. the european union had a sense of duty towards the eastern balkan countries and should have the same sense towards its and our eastern neighbours. in both cases, the situation is similar: we are talking about neighbors who until recently could travel freely in parts of the european union. now, unfortunately, they are the victims of a curfew. and this is especially true for young people, students, the elite, because they'll be fine, they'll still be traveling. but it is the future of europe, and it is the students, the young workers, who are at stake. visa liberalisation could not only affect their lives, but also the quality of democracy in their countries and, as a result, strengthen our immediate neighbours and, in turn, the european union. i therefore reiterate my call to the european commission and to the commissioner to take up the next challenges and present a roadmap for the eastern partnership countries.
madam president! i would like to begin by saying how pleased i am that the european parliament has dealt with this matter in its own-initiative report. i would like to offer my warmest congratulations to mr karas. in the last decade, we have seen the development of all kinds of financial innovations, new instruments, unprecedented. these instruments often determine the face of the market today. it seems that the essential precondition for effective supervision in this situation is to have a really honest knowledge of what is happening in these markets. the financial instruments that have become popular have reached a level of complexity that makes it very difficult for supervisors to properly assess the risks involved. in addition to these new instruments, we must be aware that the market is changing, globalizing very quickly and in the face of a globalized market, this evolution, with national supervisors, these instruments are in no way inappropriate and supervision ineffective. the growth of financial institutions also leads to a certain lack of monitoring of the place of this supervision and this supervision is also hampered at this point. what i meant by all this was that there is a lack of a truly holistic view of the sector, both geographically and in terms of its activities. understanding the interconnectedness of the players and the evolving nature of the business appears to be crucial to the security of the global financial system. i think that's what's been missing. the current basel rules are really about capital and i am pleased that the new arrangements implement the requirements related to liquidity aspects and countercyclical policy mechanisms. in the context of the poor performance of capital ratios as a proactive diagnostic measure of system stability, the attempt to standardise liquidity ratios in the short and long term should also be welcomed, since liquidity problems have actually forced the rescue measures of the banks we have observed.
in writing. the financial and economic crisis of recent years has removed the illusion that banks are the best at knowing their risks and setting their own security requirements. the gross ignorance of some bank managers, the prioritization of sales plans and the ignorance of risk factors, while the inaction of financial supervision, are the fundamental sins of the banking sector, which were the direct catalyst of the global recession. basel ii has proved to be a poorly effective mechanism for crisis prevention. in these circumstances, it is necessary to create a new basel iii code of standards as soon as possible, which no longer shares the optimistic assumption about the capacity of banks to self-regulate. the increase in capital requirements will certainly contribute to the safety of the banking sector through increased liquidity. however, such actions also carry the risk of passing costs on to bank customers, increasing the price of credit and other financial services to the detriment of the economy. it is therefore necessary to ensure that appropriate safeguards are in place to prevent or at least minimise this unwanted phenomenon. on the other hand, we must also be aware that financial security comes at a cost. the question remains, how much are we willing to pay for them?
madam president! i would like to refer to the problems faced by mothers with small children and elderly people at european airports. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams in 2004 and 2005 was signed on the same day. unfortunately, the provisions of the regulation are not respected in most cases. even the highly successful tv advert commissioned by the european commission this year makes no mention of mothers or fathers travelling alone with small children. the solution is simple: effectively inform citizens of their rights. first, the title of the regulation should be amended to include the information that it also concerns mothers or fathers travelling alone with young children. secondly, a new pictogram for this group of passengers should be proposed, applicable at all airports in the member states of the european union.
madam president! the european union will have specific co2 emission limits from 2013. the european commission's recent plans to introduce a lower limit than previously planned, namely 0.688 tonnes of co2 per tonne of product produced, could lead to a disastrous situation for cement producers in many european countries, including poland. according to some media reports, such as the polish newspaper gazeta prawna, cement prices are expected to rise by at least 30%, which will hit a retail customer who wants to build a house or apartment, but will also hamper economic development wherever cement is the main means of production. this situation is particularly dangerous for new european countries that have a long way to go to catch up with rich countries such as france or germany, which have already built most of the infrastructure, such as motorways, long ago when there were no restrictions on this. and this situation also has this negative effect that some of the production will be moved beyond our eastern border and co2 will be produced and our economy will be lost.
madam president! in recent days, there have been reports of the deadly effects of the use of psychoactive substances, known as doping. this problem is also very evident in poland, where there is a growing wave of poisoning and even deaths, especially among young people. the ingenuity of manufacturers and sellers of additives wins out over the legislation of the member states. they are putting lethal drugs on the market long before states have the time to ban them by national law, and people who buy them are convinced that the doping, while not prohibited, is not harmful. nothing could be more wrong. cigarette burners are just as harmful as illegal drugs, and even more dangerous, because they are more addictive. in view of the very serious and growing social problem of doping, we must take decisive and effective action as soon as possible. the european commission, concerned about the health of thousands of young people, should urgently launch a large-scale information campaign on the harmfulness of doping and the risks associated with its use, and prepare new legal solutions.
author. − mr president, in the years to come, growth in europe will be supply-driven. sustainable and competitive investment patterns will be crucial. cohesion policy is a major source of european public investment and must work as a catalyst for structural change by investing in research and innovation, resource efficiency, new and sustainable jobs and infrastructure. it must not merely be a financial tool for investment. it is a policy that generates new resources, adding to growth potential. it will require an adequate macro-economic and financial framework to achieve its full impact. the key issue for post-2013 reform of cohesion policy is how to make it more effective in generating growth, jobs and competitiveness for the european economy in a sustainable way. social, economic and territorial cohesion is, according to the treaty, a basic principle of european integration. it must therefore be a policy applicable to all europe’s citizens, and not one restricted to the poorest regions. this is because it is not a subsidy policy based on the principle of compensation for the past, working as a supplement to national objectives, but rather a european policy for the future. it must take into account the post-crisis territorial reality at regional level, looking for the most effective solutions to the challenges and opportunities of different european territories. it must be made an integral part of the implementation of the eu 2020 strategy and its flagship initiatives. we are intensely aware of the necessity to ensure that cohesion policy and its cumulative effect over the whole territory of the union is one of the key instruments which will enable the union and its member states to achieve the ambitions of eu 2020. cohesion policy must contribute not only to reducing productivity gaps generated by the crisis, but also to putting productivity gains on track. it must invest in better links between leading regions and those that are catching up. it must better exploit territorial cooperation potential. the regional development committee of the european parliament has reached a position as to how it sees cohesion policy post-2013. over the years, many parliamentary resolutions have stressed the necessity of maintaining a strong, comprehensive cohesion policy, well-equipped with sufficient budgetary means to permit regions and cities to expand their development potential. in these exceptional times, we are convinced that they must all be encouraged and assisted to invest in ground-breaking ideas, in new technologies and in innovation. regions and cities carry the key to re-energising europe in order to overcome its extraordinary difficulties and to successfully achieving the transformation of our economy. we hope and believe that the european commission shares our resolve to ensure that cohesion policy remains the union’s major all-inclusive tool. it is therefore to afford the commission the possibility of explaining its view of the future that we have tabled this question.
mr. chairman, please! i think that when we plan for such a strategic change, we should take very careful account of the experience gained. this experience tells us clearly that where money has been spent primarily on the gdp criterion for hard infrastructure investment, there has been a benefit for the whole european union, both for the countries that pay and for the countries that receive european funds. the acceleration of infrastructure alignment has deepened the common market and facilitated investment, which still flows primarily from the paying countries to the receiving countries. this has created a clear european added value, which we are talking about so much today. i am therefore concerned that we are planning to reform cohesion policy by adding new criteria, very vague social or environmental criteria, to the system for allocating these funds. this money should continue to serve the poorest regions according to measurable criteria, in particular in terms of achieving hard infrastructure targets.
mr president, commissioners, i would like to thank you for your cooperation. it is surprising that we often have discussions before the next financial perspective in order to defend cohesion policy, a policy which has proved to be one of the most effective and visible in the european union. in fact, the conversation about cohesion policy is very much a conversation about the european union, about what it is, how it should work, how it should be perceived by citizens. we're not just talking about money, we're talking about whether we're actually doing the things that lead to economic growth. it should be noted that cohesion policy is a very specific instrument, since it combines, on the one hand, the compensation of disparities with the promotion of activities that lead to greater competitiveness. it's not contradictory, it makes this policy pro-development. and it's worth talking about because it's not a charity policy, it's a development policy. it is therefore part of the eu 2020 strategy. it is also worth mentioning that it is the only policy which is extremely complex in terms of its implementation, because it is based on a common management shared with the member states. this makes the instruments extremely difficult, the procedures very complex, but it also gives a clear effect of cooperation between the european union, the member states and local authorities. we must not therefore defend cohesion policy only in the context of new economic conditions. let's think about how we can improve and strengthen it.
mr. chairman, please! commissioner, please! cohesion policy should be maintained and strengthened in the new financial perspective. in accordance with the principles of solidarity and subsidiarity which are the foundation of the community, cohesion policy should support those regions which have the greatest distance to cover in the areas of infrastructure, economy, technology, employment or social integration and which, on the basis of their own resources, are not in a position to reduce that distance. support should cover the implementation of integrated regional development strategies which also include objectives set at national and community level. cohesion policy should go beyond spatial development policy and should integrate sectoral policies such as transport, energy, education, research, development and employment.
mr. chairman, please! your statement, commissioner, that cohesion and regional policy are in a good state and should be a policy close to the citizens, with a variety of well-designed instruments, seems to me to be a good answer to the question that was put to the house today. overcoming the crisis, which is difficult for all of us, and achieving the objectives of the economic strategy 2020 requires a policy of cohesion and clear objectives for both countries and regions. we have declared this year as the year of combating social exclusion and poverty. we will also continue to pursue this objective until 2020. we will not achieve this without the european social fund as part of cohesion policy. this is also what local authorities expect, and this is also the voice of the committee of the regions, which represents them. and we should take that voice very seriously in this house.
mr. chairman, please! cohesion policy is the broadest policy that embraces and links the different development objectives and expectations of both regions and different social groups. the achievements and experience of cohesion policy show that it can and should be a policy that meets the new challenges set by the europe 2020 strategy. accelerated economic growth does not always translate into poverty reduction. hence the enormous role of the european social fund and the need to coordinate different policy strategies. the creation of new jobs, a proper education and retraining system is of particular importance. cohesion policy is the basis for achieving sustainable development of urban and rural areas, taking into account their specificities and capabilities. good coordination between different policies will allow the rural development fund and other funds to serve the development backlog and the specificities of less developed areas, including rural areas.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. cohesion policy, regional policy can be one of the key impetus for the development of the european union. it is a policy closer to the citizen, focused on specific objectives and solving specific important problems. the cohesion policy must therefore complete the context of territorial cohesion. the question of building roads, high-speed railways and overall cohesion, which can increase europe's mobility, is a key issue. in the case of the european social fund, it seems that we will not be able to achieve the ambitious goals of the europe 2020 strategy. today, one third of european citizens have no vocational qualifications. i think that this fund should invest in vocational training, lifelong learning, and make our european society more qualified. and this fund can be targeted not only on social inclusion issues, but also on the high professional mobility of european citizens.
as rapporteur, i wanted to thank you for this vote. the aim was to set, together with the european commission, the highest possible standards for the operation of oil platforms in european seas. i would also like to express my sympathy and solidarity with my colleagues in hungary for what they are going through at the moment with this toxic waste. the highest standards for hazardous waste in europe must also be established.
dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, let me on your behalf welcome to the european parliament all our honoured guests. thank you for coming. many of us remember – some of us who are very young will know it from history – the reunification of germany 20 years ago. four great world leaders were there: the president of the united states, george bush senior, the leader of the soviet union, mikhail gorbachev, the prime minister of the united kingdom, margaret thatcher and the president of france, françois mitterrand, and of course the foreign ministers of the four countries, negotiating the reunification treaty. one of the foreign ministers is today with us. i am very glad to welcome to the european parliament mr roland dumas. we are very glad to see you. we also greet both german leaders at that time: the chancellor of west germany, helmut kohl and the prime minister of east germany, lothar de maizière. welcome to the european parliament, 20 years later. the european institutions played a very important role in german reunification. i should also like to say on behalf of all of us: welcome home, enrique barón crespo, former president of the european parliament. enrique, it is your home! thank you for coming. and last, but certainly not least, the president of the european commission in those times, president jacques delors. we are very glad to see you. we are very grateful and we remember very well your speeches from those times. you were a great supporter of german unity and it was very important for all of us. there would be no reunification of europe without the reunification of germany. those days were momentous for our continent and we can be proud of it and we will for ever remember those days. (the house accorded the speaker a standing ovation)
former prime minister of the gdr. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i look around and see many familiar faces, and i'm glad to see you again! it is a great honour for me to be able to address you today in the european parliament on this occasion, which is reflected in the fact that the restoration of german unity was by no means a purely national but also a profoundly european matter. i would even say that with the establishment of german national unity the nationalist aberration of the european peoples has come to an end. i therefore want to use this anniversary and my speech to call on us europeans to seek out all that unites us. october 7th is not entirely inappropriate for this occasion, because 61 years ago the gdr was founded, which for 40 years celebrated this day, october 7th, quite lavishly - not to say pompously - as republic day. but i had then assumed the office of prime minister with the task of abolishing that state and leading the east germans to unity. at no time was there any other way of solving the open german question than in the context of european unification. with the european community, founded on the treaties of rome, the states had learned the right lessons from the horrors of two world wars. in 1957, chancellor konrad adenauer had the full membership of the east germans in the case of reunification enshrined in the treaties. the intention of the preamble to our constitution to 'act also for those who have been unable to cooperate' thus became practical policy. the german question has always been on the agenda, because it is also a key to overcoming the division of europe. the two are inextricably linked: the war that germany fought and lost, and the iron curtain that came down and divided europe. the tragedy was that it particularly affected the peoples who had already suffered most under national socialism. none of the subsequent uprisings could seriously shake communist rule, neither east berlin in 1953, nor the uprisings in poland and hungary in 1956, nor the prague spring of 1968. but from that moment on, it was known, it was known by many people in all the states of the eastern bloc, that the system in which we lived was probably not going to be reformed, but only overcome. this insight was something like a bleak hope, which could only be guarded against appearances and the behaviour of the powers, but which, in the opinion of most people - i was one of them - would remain unfulfilled in their lifetime. freedom was without voice, it was the time of oppressed speechlessness and paralysis. but that changed in october 1978 with the election of a pole as pope. he shook the regime of unfreedom with his faith and his word alone. first the poles, then the world felt that this man says what he believes and believes what he says. john paul ii was the first visible sign of the wind of change that was now blowing across europe and that was to become the storm of change in 1989. (applause from the centre and the right) the strikes in gdansk in 1980 and the creation of the first free trade union in the eastern bloc made it clear that a process had begun that could no longer be stopped. the crucial point is that no people here fought for themselves alone, because those who questioned communism questioned it for all. perhaps this is an ironic effect of internationalism. tadeusz masowiecki and lech walesa not only changed their world, but also our world. we germans have a lot to thank the polish people for. (applause from the centre and the right) on this day we should also think of the other names that stand for many. i would like to mention only andrei sakharov and václav havel, who were already tearing stones from the berlin wall long before it actually fell in 1989. (applause from the centre) i would also like to reiterate the respect and gratitude we owe to hungary, which was the first country to open its borders with such courage. (applause from the centre) it was a time when, moved by the desire for freedom, men came to the service of one another. this was a genuine community project whose most important result should and must be a lasting european community. the european parliament has been a great help to us in this matter. (applause from the centre) i will never forget how john paul ii, in his 1996 brandenburg gate speech, said in retrospect: people were separated by walls and deadly borders. in this situation, the brandenburg gate in november 1989 witnessed people shaking off and breaking the yoke of oppression. the closed brandenburg gate stood as a symbol of separation. when it was finally opened, it became a symbol of unity and a sign that the demand of the basic law for the completion of the unity of germany in freedom had been fulfilled. now it can be said that the brandenburg gate has become the gate of freedom. i would add, if i may, as a brandenburg protestant and descendant of the huguenots, that the brandenburg gate has become a symbol of european unity since the fall of the wall. we germans would not be doing justice to our national unity if, in the light of the history i have outlined here, we did not regard it as a task in the service of european unity. (applause from the centre) the first and only free elections to the people's chamber on 18 march 1990 produced a parliament that represented a genuine cross-section of the population and expressed the vitality and persuasiveness of democracy as a form of government. 93.4% of those eligible to vote cast their ballot. i think that's a record that won't be broken again anytime soon. no one was left indifferent to this vote; it is a fact that the german people have been able to liberate themselves in the autumn of 1989 and have now succeeded in democratizing themselves in the spring of 1990. the people of the gdr have acted with sovereignty and responsibility, and in doing so have lived up to their newfound freedom. democracy and freedom are not abstract concepts, but they permeate and determine our concrete lives. i have already expressed, and i will reiterate here, on the 20th anniversary of these elections to the reichstag, how essential it was that the people's chamber immediately made it clear to all our neighbours that the changes in the gdr and even the restoration of german unity are not a cause for concern. it has immediately and voluntarily acknowledged the whole of german history, it has bowed to the victims, it has guaranteed safe borders to its polish neighbours and asked for forgiveness for the gdr's participation in the suppression of the prague spring. it has done all this before it has elected a new government, because the period now beginning after the end of the cold war was to be a time of reconciliation, peace and community. this commitment alone is the beginning of the work of the only freely elected house of the people. everything else was added to that confession and, as it were, followed from it. it is this commitment which is still valid after the end of the gdr and which obliges us in particular to seek in everything that unites us in europe. the people's chamber had put me in charge of the practical implementation of the unity of the two states. i emphasize that we all could only accomplish what was manifested by the enthusiasm for unity among the people. the election of 18 march 1990 was also a plebiscite on the german question. nevertheless, careful contracts and reasonable arrangements had to be found for an almost infinite number of problems. all areas of public life have now been profoundly changed. the countries were reinstated, the separation of powers was restored, the rule of law was restored, the education system, the police, the administration - everything was democratized. the decisive factor was the reintroduction of the municipal self-government system, which had already been introduced by the stein-hardenberg reform in prussia, and the free municipal elections on 6 may 1990. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the maastricht treaty, and it has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the maastricht treaty. we signed it in moscow on 12 december. (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am grateful to this day that we have found very committed partners in all our partners. i mention here because otherwise there would be too many names, but always those of mikhail gorbachev and george bush sr. the discourse on the common european home was one of the important starting points for gorbachev's policy of glasnost and perestroika. this has opened the door to unity for us germans. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. (applause from the centre) the european union has a duty to help the people of europe to find their own way in the world. i would also like to mention jacques delors, who as president of the european commission has done a great deal and has been an indispensable help in the process of achieving unity, a true friend of us germans. thank you very much. (applause from the centre) i am still firmly convinced that the cause of german reunification would not have found such widespread acceptance and support if it had not been represented on the side of the old federal republic by helmut kohl, who is undeniably a very great european. (applause from the centre) so two important things come together. in an unparalleled act of self-liberation, the east germans have overthrown an inhuman regime by peaceful means and brought down the wall. the european union has succeeded in bringing about a profound change through democratic elections. the people have been standing up and saying, "we are the people", and a few weeks later, they have been saying, "we are one people". people who have achieved so much in such a short time can be confident and proud. they have every reason to believe that we will be able to cope with what we call a crisis today and emerge stronger from every crisis. we have transformation experience. (applause from the centre) but on the other hand we have also learned that we are part of this great community of european peoples and of the atlantic alliance. other nations and peoples have also stood up for our freedom and have done their utmost to help us on our way to unity. it is therefore good and important to remind ourselves and future generations that we ourselves were responsible for the german defeat and the division of our country. but we owe this unity in freedom to all our friends, neighbours and partners. (applause from the centre) but reunification not only created the germany of today, it also profoundly changed the old federal republic and now the whole of europe. the changes are continuing unabated. our people and our country have been able to stop circling around themselves, around the german question, and to devote themselves with seriousness and dedication to the other great goal, which is also enshrined in the constitution, namely to serve the peace of the world as an equal member of a united europe. we can and will be the driving force behind european unity and the guarantor of peace in the world all the more because we have found our own unity peacefully and in community with our neighbours, and we owe it to them in a significant way. but above all, let us see this work as a real service to our country. we are thus doing something externally which is internally the essential ingredient of democracy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community. so democracy, more than any other form of government, requires the activity and participation of all. the same applies to the social market economy, which is more than just an economic order. it demands and encourages a sense of responsibility on the part of citizens, it puts the common good before the private good and calls for property to be put at the service of the community, without which it cannot be guaranteed. in a way, it is necessary to say again and again that what is important in our country and in europe is to overcome division through participation. participation does not mean that everyone gets something first, but that everyone can and should contribute something. i am increasingly concerned by the growing disregard for these rights, which are no less than the foundation of our freedom. democracy gains its authenticity, its strength, only in the attitude of the citizens. it is this sense of citizenship that allows us to find communion with one another and encourages us to seek always and in everything that unites us. we live in a community of nations which guarantee the rights of their citizens, seek peace and prosperity and want to live in freedom. i am convinced that the continent on which we live will have a good future if it seeks the centre of these values of justice, democracy, peace and freedom and the unity that was lost after the second world war. people spoke of the western alliance, of the eastern bloc, of the east-west conflict, of east and west berlin, our world was divided into east and west, but it no longer had a centre. the search for what unites us is also the search for what is our center. sometimes it almost irritates me that all the things we lacked in east germany and had yearned for for years now become so completely self-evident and therefore completely unremarkable. i am thinking of freedom of movement, freedom of speech, freedom of trade, freedom of the press, freedom of religion. i am thinking of the right to equal, secret and free elections, the right to participate in decision-making. all this is now so obvious that it is hardly noticed and always in danger of not being sufficiently taken into account and respected. sometimes it worries me to think of how often people tend to gamble away their winnings because they take it for granted too little and make too little effort to increase it. (applause from the centre) the enlargement of the european union is often accompanied by difficult problems if we are to proceed with its deepening. but are not these efforts much more tempting than a relapse into adversity? it is infinitely better to work together to overcome crises and solve problems than to face them alone. (applause from the centre) the greatest misfortune for the peoples of europe would be their renewed disunity. so let us seek, on a day like today, all that binds us together. the rights and freedoms i have mentioned are at the heart of our common destiny, and of this european union and our community of values. they're the ones that connect us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we should be prepared to defend these rights and freedoms. the defence of freedom is the heart of europe. (applause from the centre) we have learned that freedom is indivisible. freedom cannot be achieved for one part of the people if the other part of the people has to live in unfreedom, as we germans had to do. the fall of the berlin wall, the fall of the iron curtain in europe, not only liberated the east germans and the peoples of eastern europe - almost all the peoples of central europe have been liberated - but also brought freedom to the whole of europe. the european peoples must therefore look for their own interests in the fullest sense of the word only in the community. we must preserve our freedom in the community, and then we shall have a good future. the past century, with its ups and downs, has taught us one thing: history is not simply a mysterious destiny that haunts the nations. history is simply what people do. but we can influence people's actions not just by making demands but by the example we set for others. what is true of individuals is also true of members of parliament, governments and entire peoples. the attitude of a democratic citizen who loves freedom cannot be demanded by anyone, it must be lived. i therefore ask you today for one thing only and i make an urgent appeal to the peoples of europe: let us seek, increase and defend in all things what unites us! i am grateful for the responsibility i have had and, as a citizen, will of course continue to have for brandenburg, which is my home, for the united germany, where i love my homeland, and for europe, whose unity is our destiny and our future. thank you very much. (applause from the centre and the right)
as you have shown, mr de maizière, our reunification – the reunification of germany – started even earlier because we changed our attitude, our approach to our common european history and our common european future. but the most exciting moment was, of course, on 3 october 1990. you will have realised that i did not welcome to the european parliament former president of the european parliament, hans-gert pöttering, because hans-gert, you are one of us. you sit here every day and work with us, but we are very glad that we are sitting in your honourable place among us. now we have our second honoured speaker, jacques delors. first, he was appointed as an advisor to the prime minister of france, jacques chaban-delmas. later, for two and a half years, he was a member of the european parliament. probably not all of us remember that. later he was also a minister of economy and finance. he had two terms in office as president of the european commission. he led the single market project and was a key player in the preparation and implementation of the maastricht treaty, which was very important for the whole european union. he was the founder and the president of the think tank notre europe, and some other initiatives. [applause]
former president of the european commission. - mr president of the european parliament, mr prime minister lothar de maizière, mr president of the european council, mr president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, it is hardly a year since the fall of the berlin wall and the reunification of germany. throughout 1989 the peoples of europe were demonstrating: in poland, events which began with the gdańsk strikes in the summer of 1980 led to the belvedere agreements of february to april 1989 and the first free elections on 4 june 1989; in czechoslovakia, to commemorate the sacrifice by fire of jan palach; in hungary, on the occasion of the solemn funeral of imre nagy, who was finally rehabilitated; we have seen the rise of the right to vote in the european parliament, the rise of the right to vote in the european parliament, the rise of the right to vote in the european parliament, the rise of the right to vote in the european parliament, the rise of the right to vote in the european parliament, the rise of the right to vote in the european parliament, the rise of the right to vote in the european parliament, the rise of the right to vote in the european parliament, the rise of the right to vote in the european parliament, the rise of the right to vote in the european parliament, the rise of the right to vote in the european parliament, the rise of the right to vote in the european parliament, the rise of the right to vote in the european parliament, and the rise of the right to vote in the european parliament. the people are growing and on 2 may 1989 the borders between hungary and austria are opened, allowing some east germans to cross to the west. so we've experienced one of those accelerations in history that, frankly, surprised us all, we have to admit. some of us had a hunch about the growing imbalances in the communist countries, but no one could have foreseen that the pot would explode so quickly. this is a tremendous change in 1989, which, i remind you, saw the end of the pinochet dictatorship in chile and the tiananmen uprising in china, among other places on the planet. the events of 1989 could have triggered brutal repression, bloody conflicts, and a long period of instability and threat to peace at any time. it wasn't. this is the second lesson after the one we learned from the push of the people. we, the contemporaries of these events, have the duty to bear witness to them. the new generations must be educated about this period, for they have not lived through it. today they live in a world of prosperity and peace, yet they see the present world shaken by tension and revolt. so they have only a media image of violence and hatred. but they must bear in mind the overriding fact that, thanks to the wisdom of some world leaders in those years, 1989 and 1990, europeans were able to experience a transition, full of emotion, but without much bloodshed and without dangerous contamination. (applause) i will not mention the names of all those leaders - prime minister lothar de maizière did - whose calmness and wisdom i have just praised, and i fear i may forget or cause some sensitivity or be misunderstood. some of them, i should add, have unfortunately suffered the ingratitude of the peoples and their successors. history, i am sure, will correct these errors and omissions and deliver to us through these contributions the heart of the truth. but let us return to the shock of the fall of the berlin wall on november 9, 1989. even before politicians and diplomats could catch their breath, the european community had to react, if only by reference to the provision of the treaty of rome which mr lothar de maizière referred to. on 11 november, after having held an emergency meeting of the members of the european commission, i said on german television that the east germans were free to choose, but that they had their place in the european community. i added, and i quote, "we are a great community, within which we will build our destiny together to better control history, for the benefit of all". at the time, it was not possible to say more. my duty was to deliver a message of welcome and hope to our brothers in east germany, but at the same time i was trying to allay the fears and apprehensions of many, and this was not lacking. from then on, meetings between officials multiplied at world level, between the united states and the soviet union, between the latter and the europeans, or between the two germanys and the four allied powers of the last war, the so-called "2+4" process. at the same time, negotiations were progressing between the government of the federal republic of germany and the representatives of the gdr, and mainly between mr lothar de maizière and mr kohl. within the european community, many people wondered why they should hide it in the face of this radically new scene. but the european community could only approve and support the reunification of the two germanys, which it did at the european council in dublin on 24 april 1990. in doing so, and in taking note of the assurances given regarding the sustainability and fairness of the arrangements concluded at the level of the '2+4', the community was simply remaining faithful to the values which animate it: peace, mutual understanding between peoples, solidarity, and in particular with all germans, east and west. i am not sure that the existence of this community, and not merely its material prosperity, was always a reference point and an attraction for the peoples living under the communist yoke during the dark years. i would like to remind you that the community was in the throes of these events. as early as july 1989 - and roland dumas recalls, he was one of those players - the european commission had already got the g7 to accept a plan to help the countries of central and eastern europe, even before the wall fell. the spirit of openness and the willingness to accept enlargement had already been formally affirmed. but after the wall fell, the german question, why hide it, was the main concern. what fate was germany to choose? on 19 november 1989, at the initiative of françois mitterrand, an extraordinary european council met, which opened the way to regular consultation between the two germanys and their partners. a long speech by chancellor kohl gave an update on the situation, which, of course, could only be a turbulent one. the acceleration of history was well under way. the european parliament was also very active and attentive during this period. the debates reflected the questions raised by the future of germany and the risk, feared by many members, of a slowing down of the european integration effort stimulated by the single act treaty of 1987. on 28 november 1989 parliament adopted a very important resolution which states, and i quote: 'all the peoples of europe, including the polish people, have, in accordance with the helsinki final act, the right to live in the future within secure borders, as they are now defined.' the european parliament was referring to one of the most difficult debates, which ended with the maintenance of the oder-neisse frontier. it was before the european parliament on 17 january 1990 that i, as president of the european commission, confirmed, and i quote: 'east germany is a special case. it has its place in the community if it so wishes.' in view of these prospects, your parliament is setting up a temporary committee to study the impact of the process of german reunification on the european community. this committee, composed - i should stress - of highly experienced personalities - several foreign ministers - made an effective contribution to removing doubts and preparing the integration of the eastern länder. we should remind the sceptics of all sides that, thanks to the european parliament, pluralistic and living democracy is not a vain concept but a reality. she showed it on that occasion. (applause) in sum, whatever difficulties the construction of europe has to overcome, it is wrong to underestimate its achievements and influence. i shall not, of course, venture to establish a hierarchy of ideas and facts which may have influenced this great liberation movement. perhaps the most important remains the ability of peoples to resist oppression, to express their desire for freedom, to demonstrate their quiet courage. but i would not like to ignore the appeals of john paul ii, and in particular his crucial words to the poles: "do not be afraid!" i also remember the firm, open and generous policy of west germany towards the gdr in the years before the fall of the wall. a moment when freedom triumphs, but freedom has its demands. the german reunification treaty presented a twofold challenge. firstly, the question of understanding between west and east germans, which was raised with great lucidity, understanding and generosity. then there was the economic and social challenge, which was equally difficult. an exceptional effort was made by the massive transfer of resources from the west to the east, of the order of 4 to 5% of west germany's national product each year, or, ladies and gentlemen, 1 400 billion euros over 20 years, not to mention other contributions in the form of technical assistance, to restructure the economy of the east. to illustrate the results by a single figure, it should be noted that in 20 years the per capita income of the east of germany has risen from 40 to 73% of the income of the west. the effort will be continued in the coming years by maintaining the solidarity tax if i understand correctly, until 2019. the germans themselves agree. there is still work to be done in terms of attitudes and economic and social structures. the european community has also made the eastern länder benefit from the economic and social cohesion policy, which is well known to parliamentarians. even if the sums committed are not of the order of magnitude of the effort made by the germans, the european contributions were a sign of the east germans' full and complete membership of the european venture, the multiplication of human and technical exchanges, the regular dialogue between the european commission and the leaders of the new länder. i would have liked the commission to do more, but the german authorities, concerned about the reactions of their partners, asked me not to go any further in the effort provided by the structural funds. ladies and gentlemen, twenty years later, when the european adventure is raising many questions beyond the financial crisis, the 27 countries are faced with a historic responsibility: to deepen european integration or to live day by day through compromises, which are necessary but do not carry any future. (applause) i would like to thank on this day when we are celebrating the german reunification, how can we not question the country's vision for the future of europe? the unified germany is the strongest economic power of the 27 countries that make up the union. to cite just one figure, it represents 25% of the gdp of the economic and monetary union. i quote it because, whether we like it or not, it is the strongest link between the european countries which share the same currency with the rights, but also with the duties that this entails. many in europe would tend to forget that. (applause) i would like to thank germany is now geopolitically situated at the crossroads of the european union and the rest of the european continent. it is a strong position, attractive in some respects, which raises many questions in germany as in other countries. the germans themselves agree with this, as is shown by their white paper on security in germany. i quote: 'given its size, its demographic weight, its economic strength and its geographical position in the heart of the continent, a united germany must play an important role in shaping the european project of tomorrow and beyond.' the period before 1989 is therefore no longer relevant, when germany was showing restraint and delicacy, for reasons that everyone could understand and even appreciate. this restraint led successive german governments to take the lead in european integration, particularly when it came to abandoning the powerful dm - i mean the powerful dm, because it is 10 marks - symbol of the german renaissance, in favour of the euro, the single currency. i am not speaking out of nostalgia, but as one of europe's activists, who today addresses germany, whose reunification we are celebrating, but which is valid for all the member states. are the values which the founding fathers of europe have bequeathed to us still present and dominant? the legacy that has been handed down to us is more about 'why do we want to live together?' than treaties, necessary institutional arrangements. but i would not like to end on this necessary questioning, this little pessimism that runs. no, you can't! i have deep memories and a special fondness for the night of 3 october, when we had the honour and the joy - enrique báron, president of the european parliament, and i - of being invited to this memorable evening in the old reichstag. the german leaders of west and east germany were united in a fervent communion, an atmosphere of seriousness and happiness. all europeans would have shared this great emotion. after the ceremony, i wanted to walk through the streets of berlin and feel the feelings of a people. there was also nothing but seriousness and joy, no exuberance, no ostentatious display. a quiet night that everyone enjoyed thinking of past ruptures, the anguish of families divided by a decree of history. i was thinking of this europe free of hatred and conflict, a europe which i wanted to see united, strong and generous at the same time. and you will agree that there is still much to be done to consolidate the acquis and move forward into the future. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.)
we remember, mr delors, your speech at the college of europe in bruges at the beginning of 1990. it was about german reunification, and german reunification in your words was the best way for better coordination in europe and a better future for europe. it was a great and visionary speech. thank you very much for your speech today as well. let me thank our honourable guests from spain, from france, from germany, and the presidents of our institutions, the commission and the council, for being together with us. we will now hear the european anthem.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to welcome the positive outcome of today's vote in the european parliament on visa liberalisation for the western balkan countries. following the lifting of the visa requirement for citizens of serbia, montenegro and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia in december 2009, it was expected that relevant decisions would be taken in relation to bosnia and herzegovina and albania. the opening up of the european union to more balkan peoples will have many positive effects for all concerned. first, it is an unprecedented convenience for ordinary citizens, who can now see firsthand what the european union looks like and travel freely throughout the member states. secondly, it is another very important step aimed at stabilising the situation in the region and creating a positive climate for further reforms and the future integration of all balkan countries into the european union. however, in parallel, appropriate decisions should be taken on the visa requirements for citizens of kosovo. the people of this country should not remain the only completely isolated nation in the balkans, and the privileges of free travel in europe should extend to this country as well. i am very pleased with the initiative taken by the european parliament to lift the visa regime for bosnia and herzegovina and albania. this is the next step in the integration of the balkan countries into the european area, which i strongly support.
in writing. - i fully support the proposal prepared by the european parliament and the council to lift the requirement for short-stay visas for citizens of albania and bosnia and herzegovina when crossing the external borders. these countries have made good progress in adapting to the requirements of the european union. the commission has proposed that, once the visa requirement has been lifted, it will appropriately monitor in those two countries and in all western balkan countries which have already moved from a 'negative list' to a 'positive list' the process of effective and sustained implementation of the measures envisaged by those countries in the framework of visa liberalisation. the commission also stresses that the basic condition for the completion of the visa liberalisation process in these countries is the introduction of biometric passports, which will guarantee security and prevent illegal migration.
in writing. - i supported the resolution on the failure of the drc to protect human rights and justice. i consider her reception urgent and necessary. the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly will be held in kinshasa at the beginning of december. this resolution could be an important message for the congolese authorities and people. it will signal the eu's intention to step up its efforts to stabilise the situation in the region, to review existing aid mechanisms, to put more emphasis on judicial reform and, above all, to take a firm stand against violence against women and children and to end impunity for perpetrators.
in writing. - the death penalty is the most cruel and inhuman punishment. it is a violation of the most fundamental of human rights - the right to life. that is why i believe that the abolition of the death penalty is one of the european union's priorities in promoting democracy and human rights in the world. in europe, the prohibition of the death penalty is a strong value, guaranteed by protocols 6 and 13 of the european convention on human rights. the european union is totally opposed to the use of the death penalty - whatever the circumstances. eu action in this field is a top priority of its external human rights policy. the eu has consistently called for the abolition of the death penalty worldwide and is therefore the largest financial supporter of civil society organisations working for the abolition of the death penalty. under the european instrument for democracy and human rights, more than €15 million has been allocated to support such projects since 1994.
in writing. the natural disaster in the gulf of mexico caused by the deepwater oil spill is a good moment to consider a european action plan to prevent similar events. the unimaginable damage that the spill has done to the gulf of mexico ecosystem and the southern coast of the united states should be a powerful incentive for us to act. first, the union must increase its capacity to respond rapidly to such disasters. an appropriate system of coordination of national services should be provided to increase the effectiveness of the fight against spills and the remediation of damage. secondly, there is a need to strengthen the safety control of existing and newly built installations. the process of licensing oil extraction and leasing facilities to third parties should be better monitored. thirdly, there is a need to create an appropriate legal framework governing liability and redress of possible damages, as there are a number of significant legal loopholes in the current legislation. it is also worth considering the creation of a compensation fund to finance the crisis response in such situations.
in writing. − the european union is concerned about the rapid rate of biodiversity loss and the failure to meet the global biodiversity target for 2010 of significantly reducing the rate of biodiversity loss. in order to achieve ambitious targets, specific and evidence-based indicators for assessing progress towards the strategic objectives should be defined as soon as possible. studies to date estimate the decline in quality of life due to loss of diversity at €50 billion per year (just under 1% of gdp), with a projected increase to €14 trillion in 2050. the european union therefore considers this problem to be of the utmost urgency. i support the belief that there are many links between climate protection and the achievement of the millennium development goals and the reduction of biodiversity loss. actions to protect biodiversity have a positive impact on climate change adaptation and mitigation strategies. i agree with the call in the resolution to support efforts to strengthen the synergies and links between biodiversity and climate policy. however, to help prevent these global problems, a radical increase in global funds for biodiversity conservation is needed, particularly through existing sources of funding as well as through new, innovative sources, including new and innovative market instruments.
in writing. - biodiversity affects the lives of all of us. however, man's activities have accelerated the rate at which the earth is being lost. the effects of climate change include avalanche deforestation, declining fish stocks, and the disappearance of species. scientists estimate that between 15 and 40 percent of them could disappear by the end of the 21st century. it is worthwhile to realize that the loss of biodiversity negatively affects the activities of ecosystems and the services they provide, such as food supply, water purification, soil fertilization, flood protection and energy production. biodiversity is threatened by many factors, such as climate change, uncontrolled urban sprawl, and invasive alien species. but i'd like to focus on one specific issue. it's agriculture, which is often cited as one of the threats to biodiversity. surely it can be said that industrial agriculture is not good for the environment. but i think the far greater environmental risk is that we're going to abandon agriculture. we've seen a lot of this happening lately. the declining profitability of agricultural production, caused by, among other things, price fluctuations, is driving people away from farming, leading to the disappearance of life in large areas.
in writing. − the draft resolution on the european union's cohesion and regional policy after 2013 is a clear signal from the european parliament to the european commission on the minimum requirements for policy-making in the future programming period. the aim of cohesion policy is to reduce disparities in the level of development of european regions and to increase the growth potential for achieving economic, social and territorial cohesion. cohesion policy, as a sign of european solidarity, plays a very important role in the europe 2020 agenda. its effective implementation is essential for further modernisation and for ensuring sustainable, stable economic growth and job creation in europe. it is designed to increase competitiveness and improve the quality of life of eu citizens. i am firmly in favour of rejecting any attempt to renationalize cohesion policy and to divide it into sectors, to disperse the resources of this policy across sectors. it is worth noting the need for multi-level governance, the importance of working with the regions to make cohesion policy as user-friendly as possible and the need to better coordinate rural development with cohesion development objectives.
the next item is the joint debate on:- the report drawn up by ingeborg gräßle and crescenzio rivellini on behalf of the committee on budgetary control on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec, euratom) no 1605/2002 on the financial regulation applicable to the general budget of the european communities in the field of the european external action service (com ((2010) 0085 - c7-0086/2010 - 2010/0054 ((cod)) (a7-0263/2010);- the report drawn up by bernhard rapskaya on behalf of the legal affairs committee on the amendment of the staff regulations of officials of the european communities and the conditions of employment of other servants of the european communities (com (2010) 0309 - c147/2010 - 2010/20171 (cod)) and the report drawn up by the committee on budgetary control on behalf of the european commission and the council on the draft budgetary discipline of the european union for the financial year 2010 (com (2010) 0289 - c7-0086/2010 - 2010/0054 (cod)) (com (2010) 0342 - 2010/07-0341 (c))
i'd like to thank our colleague, mr. fleckenstein, for this information. of course, as you said, we condemn all acts of terrorism. in this case, it is a particularly significant act of terrorism for us because it was committed in parliament. we are fully committed to the lord's words and we offer our condolences to the families of the victims and those who have been harmed. i'm going to make this official. i haven't been briefed on this, but i'll be making an official statement shortly. thank you very much, colleague, for pointing this out.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank mr fleckenstein for bringing this important matter to our attention. of course the commission also condemns any acts of terrorism and i am sure that it would react accordingly. if you will allow me to return to our debate, let me start by thanking our rapporteur, mr rapkay, for the excellent work he has done to table this proposal to your distinguished house. i commend the excellent cooperation we have had over the past months and weeks on this complex file. let me also extend my compliments to the shadow rapporteurs as well to the committee on legal affairs and the committee on foreign affairs who have worked hard and constructively during the whole process. last but not least, allow me to express my gratitude to cathy, her team and the commission services for their enormously hard work which will lead, i hope, to the establishment of the eeas in a very short period of time. this week’s work will conclude the complex work of laying the legal and budgetary foundation for the eeas. they build on and are fully in line with the cornerstone of this process – the eeas decision. i had the privilege of participating in the discussion on setting up the eeas and i was honoured to represent the commission in the famous quadrilogue in madrid. i can be a direct witness as to how important the contribution of the representatives of the european parliament, mr brok, mr verhofstadt and mr gualtieri was to the successful conclusion of our very intense debate on this matter. i think the input they brought to our debate really contributed to having the eeas as a truly efficient and effective european diplomatic service. the same can be said about the work of your rapporteur, mr rapkay. the amendments to the staff regulations appear to be of a purely administrative nature, but they are not. they are essential in enabling the service to be up and running and to truly serve european interests. the commission is of the opinion that the compromise package tabled by your rapporteur, mr rapkay, is a very good result that can be fully supported. the amendments have led, in my view, to a real improvement of the whole text. let me highlight just a couple of the core elements of the proposal. as you know, the eeas will be composed in its starting phase of the three sources mentioned in the treaty, namely the commission, the council general secretariat and national diplomats. the relevant departments of the council and the commission will be transferred to the eeas, while the existing rights of the staff working in these departments will be fully guaranteed. national diplomats will be able to apply for published vacant posts. i am happy to say that, as of 1 july 2013, officials from other institutions including the european parliament, will also be able to apply to the eeas on an equal footing. permanent officials and national diplomats will have the same rights and obligations in the eeas and the necessary provisions of the staff regulations will apply to ensure their independence and loyalty to the european union. national diplomats will have contracts which can last up to a maximum of ten years. in addition, member states will provide national diplomats with a guarantee of immediate reinstatement after their service in the european external action service. the compromise also includes provisions which express a strong commitment to reaching geographical and gender balance in the european external action service. the situation will be reviewed in 2013 with a report by the high representative to be presented to the european parliament, the council and the commission. i know that some of you in this house would have wished for stronger provisions in these proposals, whereas others were vehemently opposed. i am convinced that the amendments, as tabled to you now, constitute a balanced solutions. the negotiations on this file have not always been easy. the preparatory process was quite complex as it required a consultation with our staff representative, but the hard work and the intensive negotiations have paid off, and you have a very good negotiation result for your house on your desks. i therefore hope that the european parliament will adopt these amendments tomorrow. allow me to conclude by expressing the commission’s strong commitment to ensuring the smooth creation of the eeas and its readiness to provide all necessary support and help to this new european service. i hope that tomorrow will mark a historic vote by this house which will lead to the establishment of the european external action service.
member of the commission. − mr president, what we are discussing now is an encouraging beginning to a long day, rich in budgetary debates. the launch of the external action service required amendments to the financial regulation, but, for the first time, this has been done under the ordinary legislative procedure. that is why tomorrow parliament will be amending the council regulation. i am really happy that we were able to reach an agreement in last week’s trialogue. it is proof that we can deliver under the lisbon treaty. it has also made it possible for us to give the european external action service a solid and timely basis. i do not wish to go into too much detail, but it allows for the creation of a separate section of the budget, it secures optimal accountability of the heads of delegations and it allows this external action service section of the budget to be overseen by a commission accounting officer and the internal auditor. this is subject to review. i should like to thank the rapporteurs, mrs gräßle and mr rivellini, for their constructive and cooperative approach. with regard to amending budget no 6, both arms of the budgetary authority are now, i hope, in a position to approve the amending budget without amendment. that is also a pre-condition for the external action service to start operating very soon. the justification for the first tranche of new ad posts is to cope with immediate additional tasks, but by 2013 we aim to have upheld our commitment for one-third of ad staff to come from the diplomatic services of the member states. i therefore invite parliament to support the amending budget already approved by the council. i should once again like to express my gratitude to the rapporteurs, mr surján and mr gualtieri.
high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy/vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i rise briefly, first and foremost, to thank the rapporteurs ms gräßle, mr rapkay and mr gualtieri very much indeed for the tremendous amount of work that they and many members of this house have done in getting us to the point we are at this morning. i know that these have been tough negotiations at times and you have been tough negotiators. i believe that the outcome that we have before us is a good one and genuinely reflects the lisbon treaty in implementation, with parliament playing a substantive and important role for the future. this has been a joint and collaborative exercise and i am extraordinarily grateful to all of you for the work that has gone on. most importantly, i believe we have set the foundations for the service in a way that will engage parliament properly in the future, and i have already made my commitments to transparency and the approach that i wish to take in working with parliament. i have also made it clear that this is a service that must reflect the breadth and the depth of the european union. it is a service that i wish every member of this house, every member state, and every member of the commission to be really proud of. i wish to see europe reflected in the staff that we have, in the ambassadors that we appoint, in the people at the centre. you will have many opportunities to ensure that that commitment is brought to bear, especially with the review in 2013. i know, too, that members have been concerned to ensure that we have proper training facilities and capacity. we do have the legal basis for this, and i want to reassure this house that we will make sure that those who come from different traditions, from different sources, will be brought together to create a truly european service that again will reflect all that has been said in the process of building up to this moment. i wanted to say thank you particularly to ms lichtenberger and mr saryusz-wolski for the work they have done on the issue of training. i know that there is much more we need to discuss and i look forward to doing so with you and with others over the coming weeks and months, but you have my full commitment to ensuring that training is part of how we approach the building of the service. i say this in the context of the economic backdrop and climate in which this service is coming into being, and you have a full commitment from me that there will be a cost-effective service. finally, this enables us to fulfil our aspirations and ambitions in the world. every citizen of the european union is affected by what we do in foreign policy, in trade and development and in counter-terrorism. this is above all a service for them, and i stand before the representatives of the citizens of europe to make my commitment to see this service fulfil your ambitions.
president of the council. - mr president, madam high representative, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the council, i would of course like to thank the rapporteurs of parliament who have put a lot of effort into working on the various dossiers necessary for the implementation of the european external action service: mrs grässle and mr rivellini on the financial regulation, mr rapkay on the staff regulations and mr galtieri and mr surján on the amending budget for 2010. after the political agreement reached in madrid and the opinion of the european parliament on 8 july, the general affairs council adopted, as you know, on 26 july the decision on the organisation and functioning of the european external action service. but in order to put this service into practice, we still had to adopt the three instruments i have just mentioned. the work on these various dossiers has been intense on the part of parliament, the commission, the high representative and the council, and no one has spared any effort to reach an agreement as soon as possible, as we were given. today we can all rejoice and congratulate ourselves on having succeeded in carrying out this task thanks to the agreements reached on the various dossiers after the vote in parliament, here in this very session. the general affairs council on monday 25 october will be able to adopt these instruments politically. the european external action service will thus be able to start operating on 1 december, as planned. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i shall confine myself to noting the historic character of this event which, one year after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, will bring to fruition one of its most important innovations. the establishment of the european external action service will significantly enhance both the coherence and the visibility of the union's external action. of course, the task is not finished. it is only the beginning and the challenge is well worth our ambitions, but i am sure we can count on the high representative, lady ashton, to take it up with energy and determination. i wish him every success in this mission. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to thank the european parliament again for its commitment and constructive approach, which has been decisive in this matter.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. − mr president, my committee, the committee on foreign affairs, pronounced itself in favour of a strong eeas by an overwhelming majority. ‘strong’ means subject to democratic and parliamentary scrutiny and control. ‘strong’ means communautaire – i.e. representing the community of all 27 member states, respecting the geographical dimension and diversity of the union of today, and not of yesterday. half a year ago geographical balance was not an issue. today it is, and will remain so, and paragraph 7 of our resolution and article 6(6) will point this out. two hundred meps from the new member states in this house will also be keeping an eye on this. far more emphasis was placed on geographical balance than was the case in the initial proposal, although this was not sufficient. arithmetic is not always right, and laws and geography cannot be outvoted. we believe that all men and women are equal and not that some are more equal than others. this also applies to the foreign service of the union. lady ashton, we look forward to your actions to correct the present discrimination against new member states in what will become the eeas.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on development. - the opinion of the committee on development on the staff regulations was adopted unanimously. the committee on development supports the amendments proposed in the draft report of the legal affairs committee, in particular those aimed at ensuring that recruitment of staff for the european external action service is based on objective and transparent procedures laid down in the staff regulations and the conditions of employment of other servants of the communities. in addition, the commission proposal improves on the amendments proposed by the rapporteur-general, mr rapkay, introducing provisions on the staff of the european external action service, which were incorporated in the political agreement. they concern in particular gender and geographical balance among staff and balance between staff from the institutions of the european union and staff from national diplomatic services. i hope that the new external action service will appreciate the autonomous nature of development cooperation and not treat it as a 'marche card', as an instrument of foreign policy. this was the main objective of the development committee's work.
on behalf of the ppe group. i am sure that no one in this house has the slightest doubt about how important the european external action service will be to the functioning of the community. our work over the past months has focused on ensuring that the service has the right legal basis and the appropriate instruments for future effective operation. we worked under time pressure, and negotiations were often difficult. we have reached agreement with the council and the commission on a number of issues and i hope that the compromises reached will lead to a positive final result. the legal affairs committee was tasked with proposing changes to the staff regulations that would suit the needs of the new service while guaranteeing its independence and high level of content. i think the amendments voted on yesterday evening by the legal affairs committee provide such guarantees, although i am not entirely satisfied with them, particularly on one point. i think that the question of geographical balance, which has been raised so often, could have been resolved in a much better way. i am of course pleased with the declarations by the high representative that she will pay particular attention to ensuring the participation of citizens of all member states in the service, and that a report will be produced in 2013 in which she will provide information on the work of the service. the eu's diplomacy is supposed to be european, and it is true that the nationality of its staff should not play a particular role. however, where we come from, what our roots are, shapes our worldview, which in turn has a significant impact on how we see the world around us. if europe is to be united in diversity, it must be given the chance to ensure that this diversity is properly preserved and reflected. and that is what our discussions on geographical balance were about, not, as some people wrongly think and misinterpret, the provision of fixed amounts to the member states. i thank the rapporteurs for their good cooperation and i hope that mrs ashton will put our work to good use in her work.
on behalf of the ecr group. the union is a union of 27 countries and this fact should be reflected in the structure of the institution that is to represent the european union in the outside world. the impression should not be given that some countries are not treated subjectively in connection with the creation of a new service. the service should reflect the richness of culture and the different national traditions in europe, including in the area of diplomacy. that is why, together with a group of members, we have prepared an amendment which introduces a geographical balance factor. the idea is that, with similar qualifications, the geographical criteria should be the deciding factor in the selection of candidates. it is not a solution that rigidly imposes such geographical criteria on the recruitment of future staff, but one that is flexible and applied in a supplementary way. the adoption of such a record will eliminate the existing disparities and will allow for greater representativeness over time. i would like to emphasise that this solution retains the primary importance of the competence criterion, which is so important for the creators of these solutions.
ladies and gentlemen! in discussing the shape of the external action service, we cannot ignore or marginalise the issue of maintaining an appropriate geographical balance among the staff. at present, the number of workers from the old 15 member states significantly and disproportionately exceeds the number of workers from the new member states. i'll give you a few figures: until the last appointments, only two of the 115 ambassadors were from countries that joined the union after 2004. of the 29 ambassadors recently appointed, only four are from the new member states. we cannot allow this division to become the rule of the future external action service. without adequate geographical representation, we are unable to create a strong and effective external action service that works in the interests of all of us. and we will not be proud of the service that the high representative, lady ashton, has spoken of. i am also convinced that the application of a transitional period during which the disproportionately low representation of the new member states would be gradually levelled out will allow us to reach a state of affairs in which our objective of promoting the european union as a key player in the international arena can be achieved in an efficient and effective manner.
we regret that the demands of the majority of members of the committee on foreign affairs for a balanced geographical representation in the newly formed external action service of the union are facing serious problems and even strong resistance. the difficulties in developing the rules for the recruitment of staff in eu diplomatic missions are also apparent. the principle of solidarity and representativeness, which has long been a hallmark of the union, must not be eclipsed by the selfishness of some large member states. the diplomatic missions chapter is under the jurisdiction of the lady catherine ashton here today, who grants them solely on a discretionary basis. of the several dozen diplomatic missions around the world, the sixth largest country in the european union, poland, receives only two. it is therefore worth asking what criteria the commissioner used to make this distinction. i would like to remind you that it is our house that decides on the budget of the eu diplomacy.
today marks the end of a very special procedure, the procedure for the creation of a new european institution. i represent the new member states and i've been fascinated to see what integration looks like in practice, what these push-ups between the different institutions look like, how something is finally being born that is supposed to consolidate what is so lacking in the european union, namely a common foreign policy. and it worked, parliament was involved. i'm very proud that we were active. it is a service of the whole european union, not just of one institution. but also this integration was about integrating new countries with old ones. let's just say i did half-way on this test. if there are questions and doubts today, it is because the commissioner, the vice-president of the council, must ensure that all staffing decisions are transparent and show that the best people are given jobs. then i won't fight for geographical parity, because for me, the parity of wisdom and qualifications is much more important than the parity of geography, but you have to prove it. (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. the report by bernhard rapkay on the changes to the staff regulations in the context of the creation of the european external action service (eeas) is a very important document for the development of the union's foreign policy. the bone of contention in the final days before the report was adopted was the issue of 'geographical balance'. meps from the so-called old countries argued that the eu diplomacy that was being created should recruit the 'best of the best' and be based only on the knowledge and experience of the candidates ('merit only'), while meps from the 'new' countries pointed out that there was no shortage of excellent professionals in our countries either, but despite the passage of 6 years since the accession of the 10 new countries, it is still strongly underrepresented in eu structures. for example, the share of poles in the european commission's directorate-general for relex, which will be integrated into the eeas, is only 2%. the concept of 'geographical balance' as proposed by the rapporteur is, in my view, vague and cannot constitute a clear legal basis for measures to correct this imbalance. i am therefore unable to support the report, although it contains many valuable proposals beyond this point.
, in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i hope that the regulations on the european external action service, if properly structured, will ensure its effective and efficient functioning. building such a comprehensive body dealing with an important and growing area of the european union's work is a challenge in today's global reality. in particular, i am keen to see the service strengthen europe's position by carrying out its activities. to this end, it should be ensured that it is composed of highly qualified people with the appropriate skills and experience, so that representatives from each member state can participate in the implementation of the union's foreign policy. i am pleased that the text of mr rapkaya's report takes into account issues such as promoting equal opportunities for the under-represented sex in certain functional groups and geographical balance in the recruitment of eeas staff. a well-organised service, with the best experts from all the member states, is an opportunity for the european union to become even more relevant and to realise its full potential on the international stage.
we are holding a debate on poverty during the european year against poverty and social exclusion. it is important that our efforts, as well as those of governments and ngos, are permanent and not just about action and propaganda. of all the measures proposed in this report, the requirement of a minimum income in relation to the average wage is of particular importance. the causes of poverty are diverse, often linked to pathology and social exclusion. but what is particularly striking and very shameful is the fact that poverty exists among working people, even those with no children or only a small number of children. this is unacceptable and the action of the european commission and parliament must therefore be extremely effective, consistent and decisive. by helping people on different continents and by providing humanitarian aid in the event of natural disasters, we should first of all set an example of solidarity with citizens affected by poverty in the european union.
in writing. dear colleagues, according to statistics, 16% of eu citizens are affected by poverty. one of the main reasons for the increase in the number of poor people in the eu member states is the lack of adequate education and skills adapted to the requirements of the labour market. poverty is also associated with great emotional stress, fear, stress, and lack of choice. these factors make it very common for people who are poor to face another problem, which is social exclusion. children from poor families are denied the opportunities that children from better-off families have. a young person growing up in such an environment has neither the opportunities nor the appropriate role models to escape the cycle of poverty in the future. the year 2010 has been declared the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion. we therefore have a unique opportunity to raise awareness of the problems of the poor and the excluded in the international community and to suggest concrete solutions.
in writing. poverty and social exclusion are a violation of human dignity and fundamental rights. the main objective of income support programmes should be to lift people out of poverty and enable them to live in dignity. the latest statistics are alarming. there are 1.4 billion people in the world and about 85 million people in the european union currently live in poverty. the european parliament and the member states should take further action to increase the number and quality of jobs and wages, and to guarantee fair pensions, pensions and family allowances. it is necessary to ensure universal access to high-quality public services. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. at present, the minimum wage in poland is about 42% of the average wage. raising it would help lift adults and older people out of poverty, give them the right to a decent life, and give every child a chance to grow and get an education. in particular, the last issue, education, requires effective action, in particular against the factors that contribute to early school leaving and to improve the level of vocational qualifications. i believe that the basis for implementing concrete actions and policies to increase access to education for young people should be created, for example through scholarships and student loans and grants.
in writing. 2010 is the eu's year to fight poverty and social exclusion. one in six europeans, or 17 per cent of the population, lives below the poverty line. in poland, that's about 6.5 million people. poverty can affect anyone. all you have to do is lose your job, get seriously ill. increasingly, working people are joining the ranks of the poor. the poverty that most affects children and the elderly, young people, mental workers, graduates, large families, people who are paying off loans. it is the duty of parliament to tackle and combat the causes of poverty effectively. our goal is to reduce the number of poor by 20 million by 2020. ensuring adequate material support for the poor, facilitating access to the labour market and educational opportunities, and ensuring high quality public services for all should be at the forefront of national poverty reduction strategies. social and ethical issues are equally important. poverty is also a state of mind that involves a loss of dignity and humiliation. and changing that mindset is one of the hardest things about fighting poverty. what we need here is effective psychological care and speed in delivering help. national strategies should be consistent with initiatives supported by the european social fund and projects under the community progress programme. may 2010 be an opportunity for social dialogue to promote the ratification of the european social charter by all eu countries.
mr secretary-general, distinguished guests, colleagues, friends, it is a great honour for us to welcome to the european parliament, on his first official visit, his excellency the secretary-general of the united nations, dr ban ki-moon. this visit is very timely. last month at the united nations summit on the millennium development goals, we had an opportunity to review our accomplishments and see what still needs to be done. last sunday was international day for the eradication of poverty. we are two months from cancún. we are awaiting a binding agreement and some crucial decisions and practical steps. we are also witnessing important developments that affect global security, with developments in the middle east, in asia and in africa. however, a visit by the secretary-general of the united nations would always be timely, because we, the united nations and the european union, share a common responsibility for global issues. as you wrote a few minutes ago in the european parliament’s golden book, we are natural allies. that is true, we feel the same. you will address our parliament and our citizens in a few minutes. the european parliament has always been the driving force behind ambitious european policies. this is how we understand the aspirations of our citizens. they want a europe of solidarity, of solidarity within europe, but also of solidarity with all people all over the world, of solidarity with nations that continually work to ensure that their citizens live in dignity. but dignity not only means freedom from hunger, illness and violence. it also means freedom to realise the ambitions of education and active participation in social and political life. dignity is also the freedom of belief and respect for differences. mr secretary-general, we believe that you share those aspirations with us. your tireless and passionate commitment to the values that the united nations and the european union have in common is very important for us. we are looking forward to listening to your speech. (applause)
secretary-general of the united nations. the president of the commission, mr jerzy buzek, the secretary-general, mr klaus welle, the president of the council, mr gahrton, the president of the commission, mr gahrton, the president of the council, mr gahrton, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the council, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good afternoon, good evening, good evening, good evening, good evening, good evening, good evening, good evening, good evening, good evening, good evening, good evening, good evening, good evening, good evening, good evening, good evening, good evening, good evening, good evening, good evening, good evening, good evening, good evening, good evening, good evening, good evening, good evening, good evening, good evening, it is a great honour to address the european parliament. i'm very happy to be in strasbourg. it is a great honour for me to be here addressing the european parliament. ladies and gentlemen, you have been sent to strasbourg by the citizens of your countries to build a stronger europe for the 21st century. i have come because you are the democratic voice of the european people, which is almost half a billion people. you pass budgets, legislate and deliberate with extraordinary zeal. you are the indispensable link between the global, regional and local dimensions. you are a powerful force for peace, stability and prosperity in your own region. and you play a key role in shaping policies that reach far beyond your borders. your responsibilities will only increase given the possibilities opened up by the lisbon treaty. we welcome these developments. the united nations and the european union are natural partners. we are making a real difference for people in countries all around the world. millions of poor girls and boys are in school, billions of young children are being immunised against deadly diseases, and thousands of soldiers are keeping the peace from lebanon to central africa to cyprus and beyond, all as a result of our partnership and europe's extraordinary generosity and leadership. that work must deepen and grow. we are facing many challenges and multiple crises. but something else is happening a light bulb moment around the world. country after country, leader after leader, is coming to recognize that the best way to address our challenges is by tackling them together together with the united nations and together with all the members of the european union. no nation, no group, no region can do it alone. if we share in the burden, we will share in the benefits. so, today, i'd like to talk about solidarity about how the european union and the united nations together can address the real fears of real people. everywhere, we see currents of concern. jobs are scarce, tensions are high, people are hurting, angry and disillusioned. that has led to an erosion of trust in institutions, in leaders, and among neighbors. these are testing times, even in a prosperous region like europe. i believe we can pass the test. together we have framed a vision for our work a precise definition of the overarching challenges of our time. we have mobilized global support for common action. let me be clear: we are beholden to the people, who rightly demand results. now is not the time for simply delivering speeches, but now is the time to implement those speeches and this is the time for delivering action. i would like to focus on three global challenges: first, tackling extreme poverty around the world; second, confronting climate change; and third, building a world free of nuclear weapons. let me be specific. first, the poverty challenge. last month, world leaders gathered at the united nations summit meeting on the millennium development goals in new york. there is good news major progress in combating extreme poverty and hunger, in school enrolment and child health, clean water, and in fighting malaria, tuberculosis and hiv/aids. yet our achievements are uneven. obstacles stand in the way. global trade talks have stagnated, locking in place harmful subsidies and an unfair regime that denies developing countries new opportunities. rising prices are putting essential medicines out of reach of many of the neediest. nearly one billion people go to bed hungry every night. this year alone, an additional 64 million people will fall into extreme poverty. all of this calls for a renewed push to achieve the goals by the deadline of 2015. at the recent mdg summit meeting, that is precisely what we agreed. we will boost resources and accountability. i commend those members of the european union that made strong commitments despite fiscal pressures. we can tighten belts without closing our eyes to common challenges. i ask all of you to support the united nations where action is urgently and especially needed. we must focus on employment-centred growth decent work. investment in clean and renewable energy is crucial for jumpstarting jobs and innovation. where people go hungry, we must help people to help themselves. thank you for your investment in the european union food facility, an amount of eur 1 billion. we must put resources where they will have the greatest impact in particular, the health and empowerment of women. last month, we were able to generate $40 billion in pledges over the next five years for our global strategy for women's and children's health. this is the most stubborn of the millennium development goals. some might say, go for the easy wins, but i don't believe in declaring victory that way. we must strive for the hardest-to-reach goals and the hardest-to-reach people in the hardest-to-reach places. we can save the lives of more than 16 million women and children. our second great challenge is climate change. here, too, europe's vision and voice have been central. scientists warn that the extreme weather we have witnessed in many countries could be the opening act on our future. we have seen raging fires in russia and epic floods in pakistan. however, we must always be careful about linking specific weather events to climate change. neither should we avert our eyes from what is plain to see. the message is clear: the more we delay, the more we will have to pay in competitiveness, in resources and in human lives. we must take action now to reduce climate risks, strengthen our resilience, and support developing countries in pursuing clean energy growth. copenhagen was not perfect, but it provided an important basis for moving forward. since then, there has been progress on important implementation issues, such as adaptation, technology cooperation, and steps to reduce deforestation. movement has been slower on mitigation commitments, long-term financing, monitoring and verification, and the future of the kyoto protocol. at the upcoming un climate change conference in cancun, we must capture progress on those issues where there is consensus. on those issues still unresolved, governments must agree on how they will move forward to resolve them. i call on all parties to show flexibility, solidarity, and muster the courage to compromise if needed. the health, security and prosperity of millions of people depend on it. there is no time to waste. most immediately, finance is crucial for building trust and spurring action. there is still a wide gap of trust between the developing and the developed world. the quickest way to bridge this gap is through providing financial support for those who do not have any capacity. i call upon all developed countries, including those represented in this august parliament, to provide their fair share of the usd 30 billion in fast-track financing pledged at copenhagen for 2010-2012. many view this as a litmus test of industrialised countries' commitment to progress in the broader negotiations. we also have to generate usd 100 billion annually by 2020. this was a promise by the developed world made in copenhagen. my high level advisory group on climate change financing has been working this year and they will come up with several options as to how to generate usd 100 billion annually for developing countries by 2020. climate change is a crucial part of the broader agenda on sustainable development. that is why i recently established a new high level panel on global sustainability, co-chaired by president halonen of finland and president zuma of south africa. their job will be to connect the many different dots which are interconnected, and to find the right path through the interlinked economic, social and environmental challenges of the coming decades. in all this, europe's leadership your leadership will be essential. europe has been a historic engine of growth and change. now, when governments are not moving when the train has hit the buffers in our talks on climate change or other issues europe can be the locomotive, driving it forward. you can push, you can pull and you can get the train back on track. you can keep us moving in the right direction. we are also advancing together on building not only a cleaner world, but a safer one. this is the third global challenge that i wish to bring to you today. the goal of achieving a world free of nuclear weapons is a subject of great interest to the members of this parliament. i commend you for speaking out on disarmament issues, posing timely questions and urging new progress. thank you for your resolution of april 2009 which supported total nuclear disarmament and cited the proposal for a nuclear weapons convention. today, there is new momentum in fulfilling disarmament commitments. this progress will continue if and only if the voices of the people are fully reflected in national and regional issues, and if the half a billion voices in the european union speak out in harmony on this issue, joined by voices from other regions. i appreciate and welcome your support for my five-point proposal on nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation and that of many leaders, including the inter-parliamentary union. we are working to eliminate other weapons of mass destruction, curb the trade in small arms and light weapons and counter the risk that nuclear materials could fall into the hands of terrorists. let us move beyond our over-armed and under-developed age to a more secure world for all. these are big challenges and great goals diverse issues with a common denominator, namely global solidarity. we rise or fall together, so we must guard against division division around the world and division within communities. almost seven years ago, my predecessor kofi annan stood before you. in his address, he made an impassioned call for europe to seize the opportunities presented by immigration and to resist those who demonized these newcomers as "the other". i wish i could report today that the situation in europe has improved over the intervening years, but as a friend of europe, i share deep concern. it is almost a cliché to say that the birth of the european union ended centuries of war and brought lasting peace to the continent, yet it remains a profound truth and a beacon of hope. europe has served as an extraordinary engine of integration, weaving together nations and cultures into a whole that is far, far greater than the sum of its parts. but for europe, "winning the peace" was the narrative of the last century. the 21st-century european challenge is tolerance within. inclusion and building diverse communities is as complex a task as the one europe faced after the second world war. none of this is easy. migrants, whether from within europe or beyond, suffer disproportionately from unemployment, discrimination, and unequal opportunities in schools and the workplace. a dangerous trend is emerging a new politics of polarization. (applause) i would like to thank you. some play on people's fears. they seek to invoke liberal values for illiberal causes. they accuse immigrants of violating european values. (applause) yet too often, it is the accusers who subvert these values and thus the very idea of what it means to be a citizen of the european union. europe's darkest chapters have been written in language such as this. today, the primary targets are immigrants of the muslim faith. europe cannot afford stereotyping that closes minds and breeds hatred. the world cannot afford a europe that does this. modern europe is founded on human rights and human values. our ambition is therefore to have a continent united and not divided by ethnic or religious differences. a union in which all children, regardless of their parents' background, have the same chance of success. i have confidence in the european model, in europe as not only a geographical entity but also an ideal. we're going through some tough times. it is precisely because they are difficult that we must continue to show solidarity. we must be up to the global challenges. i have mentioned three today: the fight against poverty, climate change and the achievement of a world without nuclear weapons. i appeal to you, members of the european parliament. show leadership and solidarity both in europe and beyond. as the famous alsatian albert schweitzer reminds us, "the first step in the evolution of ethics is a feeling of solidarity with other human beings". i have no doubt that europe, the symbol of solidarity, will be able to live up to its responsibilities. (the whole assembly stands and applauds the speaker.)
mr secretary-general, thank you for your very encouraging words, such as the european union having leadership, our solidarity, and also being a locomotive of our global train. i am quite sure we will keep the train on the track. for both of us – the united nations and the european union – the most important word is ‘united’. we say we are united in diversity, so let us cooperate. let us work together for a better world, for all nations, the united nations. thank you very much once again. (applause)
ladies and gentlemen! a few hours ago, in poland, there was a brutal terrorist attack on my party's headquarters. two people were killed in that attack, including one of our parliament's staff who worked for one of our members of parliament. i hope that this brutal and unprecedented act of political aggression in the history of my country, which has resulted in the death of two people, will be met with condemnation by parliament and with a very clear condemnation of the methods of violence and killing of political opponents. (laughter) (applause)
the control of vessels engaged in illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is necessary and should be carried out efficiently, effectively and as often as possible, with particular attention to the areas where the risk of poaching is highest. that is why we need the new control measures introduced by the regulation so badly. the control systems applied by regional fisheries organisations should be transposed into community law in such a way as to avoid delays and legal loopholes resulting from complex procedures. i also agree with the author that the justification of delays by lack of human resources is unacceptable.
the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the northwest atlantic fisheries is primarily concerned with the optimal management of fisheries resources in the areas covered by the agreement. it should be borne in mind that the convention aims at a broad international cooperation, using scientific research, to make the management of marine resources as efficient as possible. the main changes to the convention concern the modernisation of its organisation, the reform of the system of contributions to the budget, the redefinition of the responsibilities of the parties and the reform of the dispute settlement procedure. i agree with the rapporteur and believe that these changes will be beneficial to the interests of the european union, which is authorised to fish in these areas by virtue of the convention.
in writing. − the report proposes a number of amendments to bring the rules on the regulatory and control procedure into line with the new rules on delegated acts introduced by the lisbon treaty. the rapporteur's aim was to amend the eu directive on the collection of data by type of goods for maritime transport statistics. currently, 18 member states collect this data on a voluntary basis. five member states do not have a sea coast and therefore do not provide the data required by this directive. it is worth emphasising that the collection of data does not impose any additional burden on respondents, as the member states concerned have them and are able to provide them using existing data sources, such as customs documents. the collection of data by type of goods is mandatory in european statistics on road, rail and inland waterway transport. given the need to create efficient and coordinated green transport networks (maritime, land and inland), it is highly desirable to collect and analyse data from all modes of transport.
in writing. - the report refers to the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic, which entered into force on 17 march 1982. the neafc was set up to monitor the recommendations agreed in this document. the report stressed the importance of adopting appropriate measures to control and enforce the rules applicable to all fishing vessels engaged in or intended to engage in fishing activities for fishery resources in the convention area. the key issue is the coverage of this area by measures to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, which are implemented by regional fisheries management organisations (rfmo). it is therefore a priority to change the control and enforcement system adopted by neafc, which should be transposed into eu legislation as soon as possible. the rapporteur also stresses the importance of eu fishing vessels being required to have authorisations to fish outside eu waters. this report will fill the existing legal gaps in the eu fleet legislation and thus increase the credibility of the european union in this area and help to combat illegal fishing.
in writing. - the report by mr jarosław wałęsa refers to the amendment to the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the northwest atlantic fisheries, which was signed in ottawa on 24 october 1978 and entered into force on 1 january 1979. nafo, or the northwest atlantic fisheries organisation, is responsible for the rational management, use and protection of fisheries resources through consultation and cooperation. the main responsibility of this organisation is to promote international cooperation to improve the sustainable management of marine resources on the high seas, based on the basic principles of scientific research. the rapporteur is making favourable amendments to the convention to bring the existing rules more into line with instruments at international and regional level. the proposed changes include: modernising the structure of nafo (merging the general council and the fisheries commission into one body), reforming the system of contributions to the budget, creating clear guidelines on the rights and obligations of contracting parties belonging to nafo, changes to the decision-making process and introducing a new dispute settlement procedure that will allow for a smooth resolution of disputes in the interests of the european union.
in writing. - women's career paths are often burdened by the stereotype that they are weaker, less resilient, more likely to become pregnant and therefore to take more sick leave than men. this also makes it harder for women to find jobs, and those who do are paid less than their male counterparts in the same positions. the economic crisis has highlighted these problems and shown how women are exploited in the labour market. short-term contracts, part-time contracts, unpaid overtime are just a few examples of what i find unacceptable. it is therefore necessary to pay attention to the observance of labour law on an equal basis with all employees. the exploitation of people's hardship to force them to work in unhealthy and unpleasant conditions must be counteracted, especially when it comes to women, who have to deal with additional stereotypes.
in writing. − the rapporteur understands 'uncertain work' as employment which is characterised by low job security, low pay, lack of social protection and employment benefits, lack of protection against discrimination, limited opportunities for promotion on the labour market, collective representation of workers and a work environment which does not meet minimum safety and health standards. the financial and economic crisis has made the problem of precarious work even more visible and urgent. the entrepreneurs have drastically reduced temporary employment and there is a fear that the jobs lost will not be restored. unfortunately, the situation affects women the most and is most visible in the service sector (hotel, catering, education, health, social work) and in agriculture. women work part-time in these sectors, resulting in lower wages and pensions, less social support and no promotion opportunities. recent studies show that women's ability to get a job is much lower than men's. moreover, there is still a huge gender pay gap (around 18%, with women earning one fifth less per hour than men). in view of the above problems, i voted in favour of the report proposing a solution to this difficult employment situation.
in writing. - i supported the report on women in precarious employment. the economic crisis has destabilised the labour market. employers have reduced employment or hired temporary workers with worse financial conditions. the wave of layoffs has also left many people out of the job market. graduates, the elderly, and women were particularly affected. the crisis has exacerbated existing gender employment disparities. this has been particularly felt by women, who represent the largest proportion of workers in so-called precarious employment. the financial gap in earnings has widened, and inequalities in social protection have increased. this situation has also hampered the professional development of women and contributed to the perpetuation of gender stereotypes in the workplace. women in so-called precarious employment should therefore be given special protection! they should be covered by, inter alia, social security schemes and employment protection legislation. it is also important to provide financial security for women in the event of unemployment or maternity. women in precarious employment should also be able to benefit from trade union protection. in addition, women working exclusively in the home should be guaranteed free access to social rights counselling services. i also draw attention to the need to regulate the legal situation of seasonal workers, who are more exposed to various irregularities because of the nature of their work.
the rapporteur. - today we are meeting to discuss the 2011 budget of the european union. 2011 is a special budget year for several reasons. first of all, this is already the fifth year of the 2007-13 multiannual financial perspective, so we already know a lot about how this multiannual financial perspective is being implemented, what has gone well, what has not, and many programmes are already well advanced in terms of their so-called life cycle. meanwhile, a lot has happened in the european union. we have adopted the treaty of lisbon, which imposes or defines new areas of action for the european union. i would like to mention a few, especially those which are costly, namely the new areas of action in the framework of the policy to combat climate change, in the framework of the energy policy; it opens up new areas of action for the european union on the global stage, i.e. the emergence of eu diplomacy; new activities in the field of space exploration, sport, tourism. all these new tasks are not, unfortunately, adequately funded. it is a bit like the european union has new ambitions, new plans, but not necessarily new material means to implement them. and that's what 2011 is. in its draft, the european parliament believes that the european commission has reasonably planned the actions and the corresponding measures for 2011. the council - as we have discussed here before - has reduced these measures. i would like to briefly present what happened in the committee on budgets during our reading. as a reminder, the new lisbon treaty also introduces a new budgetary procedure. we don't have two chances now. neither the council nor the european parliament have two readings anymore. we only have one reading, which means that both arms of the budgetary authority need to be extra disciplined and extra hard, because we only get one chance at each of these things. i repeat, we are no longer on two readings. we're voting tomorrow, we're going to lean on the position of the budget committee. it is important to emphasize that the position adopted by the committee on budgets respects the multiannual financial perspective. unlike in previous years, the european parliament will adopt its own reading, which does not go beyond the multiannual financial perspective in terms of the amounts planned. it is a position that is as innovative as it is one that takes into account and takes into account the concerns and the situation in which the council finds itself. the situation in which seven member states rejected the council's position was not lost on the european parliament. we listen to and take into account the concerns of some member states and the council as such. we have read the council's position carefully and that is why our reading as the european parliament is disciplined and does not go beyond the multiannual financial framework. on the other hand, we cannot of course remain indifferent to the fact, as i said earlier, that we have new areas for the european union to deal with and there are no adequate financial guarantees for them. moreover, the council has committed itself to a large number of measures, such as those relating to bananas, compensation for banana producers, the iter programme and others, which require new funding and for which there is no new funding. they're supposed to be funded by the people in attendance. and here, as the european parliament, we have our doubts. what we would also like to communicate in our reading is, first of all, to emphasise once again the priority triangle, the triangle of youth, education and mobility. since march, as the european parliament, we have been informing that this will be our set of priorities for 2011 and we would like those budget lines that favour youth, education and mobility to be appropriately funded, so that there are also funds for novel, innovative projects on youth mobility and education. the same applies to research and innovation programmes. we know that there are not enough funds in the current financial perspective, and that is why we have made the painful but in our opinion necessary cuts to the iter programme. i would very much like this reading of parliament to be seen as a disciplined reading, but at the same time a reading that allows the european union to finance its commitments for 2011.
the committee on budgetary control considers that the following points should be noted. the first is the level of errors that occur during budgeting and implementation. the two areas of particular importance are external action and the structural funds. another thing that is crucial for us is the amounts that are allocated in the traditional way, on the basis of a ratio based on the evaluation of the effects of the measures used. this is the second aspect that we often miss when we make budgetary decisions. the third area is the harmonised budget, for example the cohesion fund, the transeuropean transport networks. it seems that we are using too little european methodology in budgeting and too much national fragmentation. the last budgetary element is a request to take account of the fact that national reports on the implementation of budgetary commitments in the past year are included. so far, less than half of the countries have submitted them, using a very different methodology.
on behalf of the ecr group. this budget debate and the whole cycle of debates we are starting is a great test for the european elite. we gave europe the lisbon treaty, which gives citizens more europe. i would like to make it very clear that we cannot say that we want more europe and not give money for europe. and that's where i'd like to start. we cannot honestly say that we want more europe, but we do not want to pay for it. europe costs, and if you look at the structure of spending on the european budget in the structure of spending by the largest contributors, it's not a lot of money. i would like to raise one more issue as a representative of poland, as a representative of central and eastern europe: all the funds that go to the development of our region, which is a big consumer of goods developed and produced in western europe, money invested in new european countries is money invested in the future of europe. the rich central and eastern europe, the rich new european countries, it's also a benefit for those western european countries that we respect very much and that are net contributors to the budget of the european union. we need more european solidarity in this debate too.
we are talking about a new budget for the european union in the context of the crisis of public finances in many member states, in the context of very serious cuts in national budgets, so it is not surprising that we are also looking for these cuts in the eu budget. i would just like to draw attention to the fact that the most effective, the most powerful anti-crisis instrument we have in our hands is the common market. the balanced common market can be achieved more quickly through cohesion investments, structural investments. so do not look for cuts where we are dealing with neither social aid nor money-eating policies, but with investments that help to reap all the benefits of the common market, which we extended in 2004 and 2007. and one more thing. today we're talking about this new budget in the context of building diplomatic institutions. do not expect central european meps to unconditionally support an increase in external service expenditure when their interests and their countries are not equally represented in these new institutions.
member of the commission. − madam president, just a short response to ms andreasen, mr hartong, mr belder, mr vanhecke, mr fajmon, mr vlasák and mr brons – the latter being in opposition to parliament’s position on the budget and the proposal of the commission. ninety six per cent of the modest increase for 2011 is concentrated in the area conducive to growth and jobs. these are bills to be paid, a sort of legal obligation. what is more, it is filling the gap in investment, a shortage in the credit market at national level where investment is the first to be cut. therefore, i think there is added value in these very modest increases and the measure of responsibilities, considering the project is eur 4 billion below the ceiling agreed in 2005-2006 for the year 2011. what should be known is that 6% out of the total is administrative expenditure out of a budget equal to 1% of gdp. that means that 94% is delivered to the beneficiaries. that should be known when discussing the future of the european budget. i am inviting both branches of the budgetary power to come closer in the coming weeks as we enter conciliation and prove that the lisbon treaty is a compromise machinery.
president of the council. - madam president, it is impossible to answer all the questions put to the council. i shall simply recall a number of principles which i came to mention here in the context of the debate when we presented the council's budget. it should be recalled that all the appropriations adopted by the council are based on the implementation of the 2010 budget and that, for all the headings, a number of possibilities for amendments by letters of amendment were provided for in the context of the implementation of the 2011 budget. we are living in difficult years, with limited budget increases and, as you know, the 2.91% increase which was agreed in the council was achieved by a very, very small majority. the margins for having complementary or other majorities are almost non-existent. it must therefore be possible to reserve the right to change the budget during the year by means of letters of amendment, depending on how it is implemented. the 1b heading has been mentioned many times. i would remind you that the council has committed itself, in a declaration, to making sure that the implementation of budget 1b is monitored, which is why we really want to be present and to be aware of this reality and of this implementation. but as i said in my introduction, the 2011 budget will not be a debate about the 2011 budget as such. the other budgetary aspects will be part of the debate. we're going to have this discussion about the budget review. of course, all the issues raised in the budget review, and in particular the question of own resources, will be the subject of discussions which we will have to have together. the question of flexibility, for example, will be a subject for discussion again in the context of the budget review. i hope that by having this overall debate we can show that the 2011 budget, based on this new lisbon procedure, will be a success, and i simply point out that if we do not reach agreement on the 2011 budget, the prospects for additional expenditure for 2011 will be further reduced and will not even be up to the level that the council is proposing today. we must therefore be well aware of all these elements to ensure that this first budget procedure, the 2011 lisbon process, is a success, which we will achieve together.
the rapporteur. - i would like to emphasise what may be a summary of the speeches of my predecessors, who spoke in detail about the topics in their areas of expertise. first of all, the reading of the 2011 budget, which the european parliament will adopt tomorrow, is a very disciplined reading. for the first time in many years, the european parliament is proposing nothing beyond what was already planned in 2006 under the multiannual financial perspective. it should be stressed that this is a rather exceptional situation and a sign of our discipline as a european parliament. we also understand the council's misgivings. i would like to emphasise that the budget of the european union is not the same as national budgets. it is an investment-oriented budget and it is an anti-crisis tool. it's worth using. i would also like to point out that, of course, as rapporteur-general, i hope that we will succeed in adopting the 2011 budget successfully and efficiently in a joint effort, so that we can implement the union's policies as from january 2011 in line with what was decided in 2006, in line with what we have also been working on throughout this year. the council should pay attention to what we're emphasizing in our budget reading. it is doubtful whether new tasks and new ambitions can be added if there is no readiness to make new financial commitments. as for the council, i would appeal to its president, who is here, to see the goodwill of the european parliament in our reading. i hope that during the belgian presidency the council will be able to win more support for the original idea of the european commission for the 2011 budget and its proposals. everything that the european parliament is going back to and proposing is not simply taken out of a hat, but is the result of our earlier work and i think that much of the council's scepticism is really the result of the council having adopted its reading in the written procedure, because it is much easier to be negative in writing than in an oral debate. i hope that an open and direct dialogue will allow us to adopt a sensible and wise budget for 2011.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i'm very happy that we finally have this document in front of us. it's a good thing it came into being, that it was presented to us at this time. of course, you can always complain about how things were before and so on. i think that we should, at this point, commend one aspect of this document, and that is that it tackles taboo topics. we should not regard any issue relating to the budget of the european union as taboo at this time and we should talk about everything, including own resources. this is most commendable. i would also like to warn against a certain danger in the discussion of new own resources. as we know, this is a very difficult debate, one that can easily block any other conversation about what the eu budget should be and what we have already learned from this current financial perspective. we shouldn't be led into a dead end. we should broaden the horizons of our discussion and not get stuck in the subject of own resources, which will prevent us from really finding a solution. i would like to stress that the revenue side of the european union budget should be stable and predictable. we should always remember the great achievement of the european union budget, which is to balance it. it's a budget that doesn't go into debt. that's the value that should be in him. i also stress that the new own resources should give the european union stability and predictability of income, as well as avoidance of debt. i think we should think about that and remember that the current income of the european union based on the gross national product of individual member states is not such a bad system to reject. the new system should be a mixture of the old and the new. we should think a lot about reform, but also not reject a priori what is a good tradition. so continuity and change, one doesn't exclude the other. we should build on what is already positive and not reject it, so that we don't get stuck with the discussion of our own resources, but really think about how to construct a new financial perspective.
we have a very interesting document before us and it must be said that we have been waiting for a long time for a document which will not contain any figures, and here the commission has kept its word. we have received a document which actually contains some programmatic elements and declarations. we as the european parliament should look at what the commission is saying today, at this very moment. and it is very important for us members today, for example, to talk about the relationship between the 2020 strategy, which we have already discussed today, and eu policies. if the commission in its document gives the possibility to organise the budget around the 2020 strategy, this declaration actually means that there is a possibility to integrate most of the union policies into the 2020 strategy. that's what we read in this text, it's written straight. the reorganisation of the budgetary structure is, in effect, a reorganisation of the union's policies. the declaration that cohesion policy is to be the main vehicle of the 2020 strategy is also a declaration that we welcome and we will certainly try to translate these terms, these declarations, into the language of concrete decisions.
ladies and gentlemen! the budget review was a very worrying one, but the way the commissioner presented it was so intelligent that we became more calm and satisfied. that's not to say the commissioner hasn't presented a lot of issues for consideration. so how do you balance your spending with your income? or cut the first and increase the second? or should we ask how we can make eu funds more effective, how we can spend them more intelligently? the transition from traditional infrastructure to research infrastructure funding must begin. but there must be a balance, taking account of the different levels of development in the member states. we know that every euro spent from the union budget is more profitable than a euro from the national budget. but let's remember that every euro paid into the eu budget also brings significant benefits, returns to the payer, not just to the one who receives the euro from the eu budget. it is important to note that the net contributor also receives a substantial benefit from the funds he has paid into the union budget.
i would like to thank you, commissioner, for this information, which is so important because it presents the financial situation in europe and the financial situation of banks, which the european commission deals with on a daily basis. fortunately, we're seeing some improvement in that area. my question is very brief: you have announced that the european commission will present new proposals in spring 2011. would you like to say a little more about the substance of these proposals?
on behalf of the ppe group. - i'm not going to tell you. my dear colleagues! i'm glad we can sum up today the discussion we've had over the past few months. everyone involved in the work on the directive knows that reaching an agreement was not easy, although each of the parties was aware of the seriousness of the problem. i think that the solutions we are voting on tomorrow are good news for businesses, especially small and mediumsized businesses, which will be able to recover their debts more quickly. the scale of the problem of late payment is not the same in each member state. however, we should not forget that companies operate in the european single market and often operate in different member states. the entrepreneur should have a guarantee that he will receive his due on time, whether it is poland, spain, france or malta. ladies and gentlemen! today, i was asked by one of the journalists what the teeth of the directive are, its main instruments to change behaviour in the market. well, in my opinion, those teeth are the maximum and non-exceeding 60-day payment limit by the public authorities. it is essential that information about the main instruments of the directive reaches entrepreneurs. they need to know that they are entitled to compensation for the cost of recovery, that the payment terms have been shortened, that the provisions of the contracts excluding interest for delays, compensation or containing unjustifiably long payment terms are simply unfair. only then will traders be able to use its provisions and demand that payment deadlines and other rights be respected. late payments should be the exception, not the rule. i think the directive is a strong signal from the european institutions that this is how it should be. thank you very much for your cooperation and your attention.
the problem of timely payments in commercial transactions also affects farmers, suppliers of agricultural products. very often payment deadlines are postponed for very long periods and this is one of the reasons why the economic situation of many farms is deteriorating. farmers often do not receive their crop payments on time. the european parliament recently supported the farmers in mr bové's report, when it said that the maximum period for payment in such transactions should not exceed 30 days. it is important to ensure that this term is actually implemented in practice in all member states of the european union. farmers must be protected against unfair practices by commercial enterprises, especially large trading networks.
in writing. the ecological disaster in hungary has affected us all with its scale and extremely tragic consequences. we express our solidarity with the families of the victims, with all those who have lost their life's work and will suffer for many years to come from the effects of the toxic sludge spill. i believe that the most important question today is the one that is asked so often: could this tragedy have been avoided? or rather, how should it be done? and what we, as the european parliament, should do today to prevent such events from happening again. we know there are many more of these tanks in hungary. but not only that. for example, in poland, lower silesia, there is the largest landfill of liquid waste in europe, which was created in the 1970s. can we sleep well in a europe where this has happened despite a series of legal regulations that were supposed to guarantee proper control of chemicals? we have reach, which has been in place for three years, and it's being implemented by echa. we have other legislative texts, like the 2008 controlled substances and mixtures (clp) regulation or the ghs system, which classifies substances and mixtures according to the hazards they present. we need to look at existing eu law, its implementation in the member states, and set clear priorities in a robust and insightful way to ensure effective risk response and crisis management.
we will do what you want. it is great. the beginning of today’s discussion is fantastic!
the next item is the joint debate on the - statement by the council and the european commission on the preparations for the g20 summit on 11 and 12 november and - statement by the council and the european commission on the preparations for the european council on 28 and 29 october and - report by mrs berés on the financial, economic and social crisis: recommendations for action and initiatives to be taken - interim report (a7-0267/2010), and - report by mr feio on improving the economic governance system and the stability framework of the union, especially in the euro area (a7-0282/2010)
on behalf of the ecr group. everyone's using different anecdotes here today. there's a historical connection that comes to mind when i listen to this debate. i spent 18 years of my life in a country of real socialism. there, the next party congresses passed the next economic goals and again the citizens of my country in other countries of real socialism was similar heard from the party congresses that it will be better and how it should be better. moreover, in my country at that time there was a ministry of internal trade and there was no internal trade. today, as i listen to some of the speeches, i have the impression that this proposal that we heard from the european commission is a proposal that is supposed to restore the primacy of economic thinking over policy. politics that will kill any sensible economic action, because politicians today at the level of national governments and -- we hear this -- for populist purposes, they like to point the finger at europe and say that it is europe that needs to be saved, and say that europe as a solution is wrong, because it releases them from some degree of responsibility to their own voters. without the element of making sure that countries know that they will face severe consequences if they pursue irrational economic policies, we will not succeed. but here too we need solidarity, because i also see the danger in the franco-german proposal that we will really end up with the stronger being able to do more, that greece will not be able to exceed certain standards. greece will have to cut spending, and when it comes to the stronger countries, they will succeed, and suddenly we will find that for political reasons they will be allowed to break these rules. i would like to say this: we need european solidarity, and that is why we need european solidarity. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to say that i know that you are the guardian of this european solidarity. the recent decision of the european commission on the gas agreement between poland and russia - and i thank you for that decision - is a perfect example of the fact that the community element is an element that works, and it works in the interests of countries like poland as well. i want to say again, mr. chairman, that we cannot be sworn to reality. if we can get political solutions and a certain populism, which is now in place in europe, to dominate economic thinking, then it is because of your ambitious plans to deepen the market - which i think is a very good idea (sentence unfinished). i think that we as meps are very well aware of how far we are from the single market, as we receive roaming phone bills every month. if we have a common european market and we continue to pay roaming charges, it shows us very clearly that we are still a long way from that goal of economic integration.
mr president, as usual there is both good and bad in our reality and in what we do. it is important to understand the past and the causes of the crisis, and i think the union has done its homework on that, but today the focus must be on the future. the global and european economic governance we build is for tomorrow, so it is not just a question of addressing this crisis. europe does not exist in a vacuum. when fixing europe, we are doing so against the backdrop of a world which is very different today from 2008. the g20 was united in favour of the fiscal rescue two years ago, but its unanimity was driven by fear. today it is divided. the common global good does not exist. there are many forces at work in leading the global recovery and rebalancing the world economy. a major role is played by fundamental structural change, which strongly influences european competitiveness. however, the role of currencies and exchange rates as global adjustment mechanisms has skyrocketed. a new global monetary system is emerging at an unprecedented speed, and the number of players is increasing. to avoid the disaster of asymmetrical adjustments, we urgently need dialogue and collective action. if we achieve this, the question is whether europe will be able to play its role in this collective action. what is clearly lacking for this is a bold, streamlining reform of the external representation of the euro area. by delaying this reform, we are foregoing potential influence. in the current global circumstances, europe cannot afford to do that.
i would like to begin by welcoming the report on improving the european union's economic governance and stability framework and to acknowledge the excellent work done by the rapporteur, mr feio. i am convinced that new initiatives such as the financial surveillance package and the european semester will allow us to prevent future crises or at least to cushion their effects. however, i believe that the key issue is to continue to work towards improving coordination and increasing the transparency of member states' economic policy strategies. i would like to stress the importance of creating a good framework for budgetary cooperation at community and member state level, including the linking of categories of expenditure in national budgets and the european union. such a solution would also provide the means for a thorough and systematic analysis of european public expenditure.
in writing. i would like to thank mr feio for his work on the draft report. i think we are too easily moving to the agenda of the threats facing europe. we are not paying due attention to the warnings from the financial markets, from people like president trichet, who openly calls the commission's proposals a good but not sufficient step towards strengthening the stability and growth pact. the role of the ep today is to defend the european commission's proposals against the governments of the member states, which have apparently learned nothing from the crisis. if the european council had followed the pact honestly, the scale of the public finance crisis in europe would have been much smaller. if we allow governments today, especially the german and french governments, to water down the commission's proposals, the crisis will deepen and we will wonder if the whole project of a single currency in its current form makes sense, we may inadvertently prove the thesis that the euro was not a successful experiment. parliament has a great task ahead of it. we must defend the euro by fighting against short-term political objectives. we must demand that all member states pursue a responsible budgetary policy, even if it is painful. thank you for your attention.
yesterday in poland, in lodz, an employee of the european parliament's parliamentary office, my assistant mr marek rosiak, was murdered at his workstation. the killer's words during the crime leave no doubt that the motive for this murder was hatred for the law and justice political party, the main opposition party in poland. the campaign of hatred that this party has long experienced has led to tragedy. in addition to the crime itself, the european parliament should also condemn hatred and violence, which have no place in european politics and european democracy. mr president, i would ask you to observe a minute's silence in memory of mr rosiak, a man who died while working for the european parliament.
dear colleagues, we will vote today on this very important issue. this issue is connected with your demonstration here. i ask you to leave this demonstration until the vote, which will be in about 40 minutes’ time. i ask you to do that. it is a small gesture for all of us. generally speaking, i support you, but please do not demonstrate in the chamber. (applause)
the next item is the vote. (for the vote on the minutes, see minutes)
i would like to point out that this is the result of our long negotiations with the european commission. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr rangel, in particular, but also mr lehne, who negotiated with the european commission on our behalf. mr swoboda, ms wallis, ms harms, ms roth-behrendt and mr rangel also took part in the work. thank you very much for the outcome of the negotiations. i would also like to thank president josé manuel barroso and vice-president ševčovič. we were very open with each other. the result is very good, and i congratulate both sides. we can work together.
ladies and gentlemen, we have now completed the legislative process for the european external action service. i would like to begin by thanking the many people who are here today, the members of parliament, for their extremely hard and responsible work. the main participants were the chairmen of several european parliament committees. i thank the presidents for their hard work, but i would like to thank in particular a number of people who have represented parliament both in the negotiations and as rapporteurs. these people are worth replacing. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems is based on the principle of the european data protection supervisor. i am mentioning these people by name because they have done a great deal to get us to a good agreement on the european external action service. we believe that this agreement will serve the european union. congratulations to all, but also to lady ashton and the people who negotiated on her behalf, and to the council for the outcome. we also have ambassador christoffersen, who was also in the negotiations. give it up for me. (laughter) (applause)
colleagues, i have a short speech, as i promised you one year ago. we are at the mid-way point of my presidency. at the very beginning, i promised that i would inform you of my activities. as the president of the european parliament, i represent all of you. wherever i go, whatever i do, i have always felt the honour and responsibility of acting on behalf of this prestigious chamber. but this speech is not about me: this speech is about you and about your activity. it is about all of us, what we have achieved together at the european parliament in the last 15 months, and what is ahead of us.
rapporteur. − mr president, in the committee on budgets we voted on more than 1 600 amendments to the 2011 draft budget. inevitably there are some technical adjustments that should be voted in the plenary. as far as the integration of letter of amendment no 1 for 2011 in parliament’s reading is concerned, some technical adjustments need to be made in both the new european external action service section and that of the commission, following the proposed transfers of appropriations between sections. in the european external action service section these concern notably the budgeting of the 1.85% salary adjustment for the new service, as is the case for the other institutions. the amounts affected by the letter of amendment in the commission section will also need to be modified accordingly. this also applies to some parliament amendments on administrative lines, which need to be aligned with the final amounts presented in the budget lines of section iii. for the agencies, the remarks following certain agencies’ budget lines will be technically adjusted to make them consistent with the final figures adopted. in line 02 01 04 04, remarks adopted in amendment 996 should be added as such to amendment 1010 on operational line 02 02 01 (as part of the package on pilot projects and preparatory actions). in line 19 05 01, the words ‘other than the united states’ should be deleted from the heading and the remarks, as decided by the committee on budgets. in line 19 09 01, an oral amendment adopted in the committee on budgets should be inserted in the remarks. the following words should be added: ‘part of this appropriation is intended to support, amongst others, initiatives such as the eu-lac foundation decided at the summit of eu-lac heads of states and governments and the biarritz forum’. it is necessary to renumber some budget lines in order to avoid contradictory numbering of some lines created and to follow nomenclature rules. this will affect neither the multiannual financial framework headings nor the budgetary chapter of the amendments adopted in the committee on budgets. this concerns amendments 386, 389, 521, 833, 997, 998, 999, 1016, 1018, 1021, 1022, 1023 and 1024.
mr president, i would like to congratulate you on the excellent job you did today. i really appreciate the way you exercised your chairmanship today, and i hope you will share your wonderful skills with other vice-chairs of parliament.
in writing. - the entry into force of the lisbon treaty has given new powers to both the european commission and the european parliament. the draft revised text of the framework agreement reflects the effective implementation of the treaty changes in the relationship between the institutions. it makes favourable changes in the legislative procedure, parliamentary scrutiny and the obligation to provide information. it is a significant step forward in relations with the commission and a major step towards closer cooperation. the exchange of information and constructive dialogue allows us to achieve more effective and transparent results, which is key from the point of view of the eu citizens whose interests we represent. i therefore consider the agreement to give priority to the participation of ec members in plenary sessions and other meetings related to the ep's activities to be very important. in particular, i am pleased that the commission is committed to working closely with the ep on proposals for citizens' legislative initiatives at an early stage. this allows us to stay closer to our citizens in the ep, which raises the quality of our democracy. however, in order to act effectively in the interests of eu citizens, the commission should grant meps observer status at all international conferences, make it even easier for us to attend other important meetings where possible, and keep the ep informed of the negotiating positions adopted by the commission at such meetings and conferences.
in writing. - we are nearing the end of the tumultuous work on the shape of the european external action service, which today's vote brings us closer to achieving. we talk a lot about sustainability in terms of gender, geography, we point to the transparency of recruitment based on known principles and rules, but the most important thing is the quality and effectiveness of the sdh, which is why the substantive criteria related to staff recruitment are so important. i would like to point out the need, indeed the necessity, for the involvement of people from the relevant directorates-general of the european commission, as well as the council of the eu and the parliament. this is not about representing the eu institutions, but about preparing these people in the various areas of the union's activities, such as the difficult issues of energy, trade, agriculture, not to mention human rights and terrorism. i fear that there is a large proportion of people in this service with a general knowledge of diplomacy but no knowledge of the complex issues involved.
in writing. - abstaining is not the answer. the absent are wrong. i think there are many more good solutions in the resolution than there are less good ones. we need the european external action service. it should act as soon as possible to increase europe's standing in the world. the resolution adopted says that all member countries will be represented in the service. now we have to make sure that it actually happens. it gives credence to the process of setting up the external action service. it should be remembered that the european union was built on mutual trust, which poland benefits from. i'll be watching this trial very closely.
in writing. − just a year ago, the introduction of the concept of geographical balance in the debate on the european external action service was met with a great deal of opposition, including in the european parliament. now, there's no doubt that this is a problem and that it needs to be solved. the success is the commitment, which has been in every major document related to the eeas, to work towards equal representation of all the peoples of the european union in the new eu diplomacy. the 2013 review will allow us to assess whether these objectives have been met.
in writing. - abstaining is not the answer. the absent are wrong. i think there are many more good solutions in the resolution than there are less good ones. we need the european external action service. it should act as soon as possible to increase europe's standing in the world. the resolution adopted says that all member countries will be represented in the service. now we have to make sure that it actually happens. i give the process of creating the external action service credit for confidence. it should be remembered that the european union was built on mutual trust, which poland benefits from. i'll be watching this trial very closely.
in writing. - i am very pleased to congratulate the rapporteur, ms sidonia jędrzewska, on her excellent report. we have adopted today for the first time a community budget based on the provisions of the treaty of lisbon and for the first time we have not exceeded the financial framework set by the current financial perspective. i believe that the solutions proposed by ms sidonia yedriyevskaya are a realistic and pragmatic approach in a difficult time of economic crisis. i am also pleased to note that the budget adopted today provides financial support for the european parliament's priorities.
in writing. − in the face of an ageing population and the difficulties facing the european economy, all opportunities must be used to encourage women to have children, but also to make it easier for them to return to work. many women are outstanding professionals in their fields, and the european economy cannot afford not to benefit from the services of highly qualified workers. the same is true of women living and working in rural areas. often they do not have full maternity leave and must return to work quickly. this, of course, is a danger to both their health and that of the baby. these women should therefore be entitled to the same privileges as women working outside agriculture.
in writing. - i would like to emphasise that in mrs edite estreli's report i voted for the provisions on 20 weeks' maternity leave, for the protection of women against unjustified dismissal for 6 months after returning from maternity leave and for full pay, the protection of women during breastfeeding, but in this case without any specific solutions, because i believe that the definition of these provisions should be left to the member states. in the case of multiple births, i think that leave should be extended accordingly. i always support all solutions that allow women to be safe mothers and guarantee better conditions for their return to the labour market.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a report on the health safety of pregnant women and those on maternity leave. by adopting this common position, we have given a clear signal that we support changes to raise european standards of protection for young mothers. women are guaranteed a minimum period of maternity leave, which will henceforth be fully paid. the protection of the jobs of women returning to the labour market after a period of maternity leave has also been increased by preventing unjustified dismissals. the amendments introduced by the directive are a step in the right direction, guaranteeing women in europe a minimum level of maternity leave. i also welcome the encouragement to fathers to take care of their children by introducing two weeks of paternity leave.
in writing. − payments on time in commercial transactions are a priority for the proper functioning of european economies. unfortunately, the disparities in the respect of time limits in commercial transactions between member states are significant and it is therefore necessary to thoroughly review the current directive 2000/35/ec of 8 august 2002. the lack of transaction discipline is a very serious risk, especially for smes from countries already affected by the economic crisis. late payment often leads to disruptions in both the internal market and cross-border trade. in this context, i support the rapporteur's proposal to tighten the rules, introduce further instruments to protect businesses and make compulsory the compensation used to collect dues and interest when payments are not paid on time.
in writing. - current data show that poverty levels are rising in the european union. in many member states, poverty particularly affects children and the elderly, and the rise in short-term employment contracts and low, insecure incomes risks worsening living conditions for the whole of society. if you add to that the prevailing in some countries than the demographic, you get a recipe for a guaranteed economic collapse. our job is to ensure a decent life for all citizens. we cannot allow our children and grandchildren to suffer from hunger, unemployment and social exclusion. we must guarantee future generations adequate wages, job security, access to public services and social inclusion throughout their lives, from infancy to retirement.
in writing. − one of the most effective tools in the fight against poverty is to guarantee european union citizens a minimum income, including salaries, pensions and benefits. the minimum wage should be a universal law and not be a contribution. particular attention should be paid to social groups particularly at risk of poverty and social exclusion, including in particular persons with disabilities, large and disabled families, chronically ill persons and the elderly. the experience of some european union countries shows how important a role minimum incomes play in the fight against poverty and social exclusion, which is why i voted in favour of the ilda figueiredo report.
in writing. - poverty and social exclusion are manifestations of a lack of respect for human dignity. combating this phenomenon is a priority for the european union and is also enshrined in the millennium development goals. what can we do and what tasks can we take on? the most important thing is education and development, and that means solutions that teach people how they can overcome poverty by using their potential supported by systemic solutions. in short, to teach the know-how of the field. in developing countries, it is important to support infrastructure development, particularly access to water. development aid must be linked to the creation of conditions for the development of trade. the creation of growth and jobs is the best way to combat poverty in different regions of the world, rich and poor alike. the fight against poverty cannot be effectively fought by administrative regulations alone, even those that set a minimum income.
i fully agree with mrs anna gomes that human rights are one of the most important issues in our work and therefore i cannot understand what mrs lösing said, that money spent on human rights is sometimes or often misused. i don't understand that line. this is our constitutional, perhaps even our most important task as the european community. i would also like to refer to one of the instruments for promoting democracy and human rights in the world and to the statement that these instruments should be introduced and should operate independently of the consent of third countries and other public authorities. i think that's a very important sentence that shows our duty. sometimes we have to help build democracy and uphold human rights against the governments of some countries. i think it's worth doing, especially and above all where the right to freedom of expression is violated. it's our duty.
the european financial instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights is, in my view, an instrument that is being used and treated too technically at the moment. it should be more of a political tool of the european union, as it has a huge potential to support and promote democracy. however, this requires a change in approach to this european financial instrument. so far, the issue of promoting democracy has been overshadowed by human rights, which are of course incredibly important. but i think that the promotion of democracy itself, which is something else, should be elevated to a much higher level and given much greater importance. therefore, non-governmental institutions in countries with authoritarian governments should be strengthened. we need to build a grassroots democracy in these countries, from the bottom up. the focus should therefore be on civil society organisations that offer innovative ways to expand public space. to do this, firstly, regular monitoring of the performance of organisations that use european money should be introduced. the organisations themselves say that a forum should be set up to enable donors and beneficiaries to communicate, not only donors from the european union but also others, by means of regular meetings. the application forms should be simplified. right now, they're just not available to many. finally, the commission should seek to relax the financial regulation.
thank you for taking my question. it's always nice to have a conversation like this. you have indeed painted a very dark picture of what is currently in ukraine, including even comparing it to the chinese model. do you really think that the situation is so serious today that we should make such serious accusations against the present ukraine? how does russia look in this context, in the context of comparing ukraine to russia, because that would be unfair to ukraine, right?
on behalf of the ecr group. many of us here took an active part in the orange revolution, helping the ukrainian democrats in difficult times. but we have always stressed that our involvement in ukraine is not to support a particular political force, but is linked to supporting ukraine to be democratic and to become a free country. we must remember today that the european parliament is not a player in the internal game in ukraine, but the guardian of two very important aspects: to be the guardian and supporter of the european aspirations of the ukrainian people, and on the other hand the guardian of democracy, human rights and all those values in ukraine that we consider to be european. i say that the proposed resolution is in a tone that will not help those who consider themselves friends of ukraine. today's resolution will only push ukraine towards russia, towards those who will say: look, there is no place for us in the west. the west is closing the door on us. we must be open to ukraine, we must say what european standards are, we must push for them to be respected, and on the other hand we must strongly defend the fact that ukraine is not allowed to return to the east. i would like to ask mr gahler, whom i greatly appreciate for his commitment to human rights and his international politics, why he uses such harsh words towards ukraine. i would like to hear from him the harsh words about russia used by his party colleague, chancellor merkel, during his last meeting with mr. putin.
let's ask ourselves what happened in ukraine: was there a coup d'état or was there a military coup? it's only in these conditions that you write draft resolutions at night and negotiate them in the morning. they are negotiated in such a way that the absolute majority simply dominates the wording and dominates what is to be shown in these resolutions. the language used in the draft resolution of the ppe is the language used to condemn the african and south american regimes of the heretic. and that's language that doesn't fit the situation in ukraine. i would like the epp to decide whether we describe ukraine in the language of commissioner füle who says 'yes, but' 'something is good, but we don't like a lot of things' or whether we will use the language of negation 'we don't like anything and everything must be condemned?! five years of chaos in the ukraine. we were witnesses, we helped the democrats, we helped everyone who wanted to go to the european union. we have six months of consolidation, consolidation that can lead to negative effects, and that's what we're here to show those negative effects, but not now and not in this way. i understand there's a lot of regret in the epp that yulia tymoshenko lost. i'll tell you what, it's a shame, because she might have had a chance, but she lost. if she lost, then let's respect what's happening and keep a close eye on the ukrainian authorities, but not in a way that would throw out a baby with a bathtub.
thank you very much, commissioner file, for your constructive approach. his attitude really changes a lot in the union's relations with ukraine. i also thank rebecca harms for her balanced position and her wise words on ukraine. all the data from the organization for security and cooperation in europe indicate that ukraine is one of the few countries in the post-soviet zone where normal elections have been held so far. this is the achievement of ukraine, both the orange and the blue. it's an achievement we can't question before the next election. it would be a grave political mistake for the european union and for this parliament to listen to the voice of the european people's party today and to question the fact that one of the few countries in the east is able to hold elections. let's help ukraine to hold a normal election. let's not make judgments until they're made. i say to the ukrainian guests in this room today: ukraine belongs in this room, here, and therefore we apply the same criteria to it as to the countries of the european union. this is what you fought for together, blue and orange. any and all human rights or press freedom issues will be commented on here. do not be surprised - i appeal to my ukrainian brothers - that this will happen, because you are treated as a european country and according to european standards. my final appeal is that you should speak together to the european institutions, to parliament. we believe you'll be with us in the future. we know it's not gonna happen fast, but we want to help you do it. i agree with rebecca harms that the time for resolutions will come after the election. and then, before the european union summit, we will be able to have a serious discussion on this and to work out a position which will enable us to present the common position of the european parliament.
my fellow citizens! ukraine is a country of great strategic importance to the european union. so we cannot remain indifferent to what is happening in this country. on october 1, tens of thousands of ukrainians took to the streets to protest against the changes to the country's constitution initiated by yanukovych and approved by the constitutional court that replaced him shortly after he was elected president. these reforms were carried out without democratic consultation, without consulting the venice commission. he is a former deputy chairman of the 'people's council' of the so-called 'donetsk people's republic'. economic reforms are also at risk. our ukrainian friends express concern about the upcoming elections, the predominance of the representatives of the ruling coalition in the central electoral commission, the use of the judicial system for political purposes, the restriction of non-governmental organizations and state interference in the activities of opposition parties. that is why this resolution is needed right now. unfortunately, the ruling coalition in the ukrainian parliament rejected the opposition's proposal that eu membership should become a priority for ukraine's foreign policy. however, we must continue to stress the importance of cooperation with ukraine and follow up on the implementation of the agreements reached. the european union must demand and help combat corruption and guarantee media freedom. the situation where a media mogul simultaneously heads the state security service and is a member of the supreme judicial council, which has the power to appoint and dismiss judges, does not constitute a democratic state. finally, we also need to take practical positive steps, both in terms of the future visa-free regime and economic cooperation, particularly in the energy sector, while at the same time awaiting the democratic development of ukraine. and that would be the task of the next resolution that we could create after the elections, where we could look at energy, the economy and other issues that are important to ukraine. thank you. (the speaker agreed to answer the question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8)).)
mr president, i have a very simple question. maybe this is an interpretation problem, but you said that the current ukrainian government rejected future membership of the european union. as far as i know from the declaration of the president and the official statement of the ukrainian parliament's long-term policy, membership of the european union is one of their top priorities. so the question is whether i misunderstood you, or you misunderstood the president of ukraine.
anyone who has not lived through a socialist system cannot fully understand these nations who have lived through the limitations of personal freedom, the limitations of freedom of the press and media and cannot fully understand the difficult path of change these nations have to go through. i understand those who today express their concerns and talk about the lack of respect for the rights and the multifaceted problems that ukraine is facing today. but we must also appreciate the small but very positive changes, such as the recent democratic elections that we, the representatives of the european parliament, have witnessed. i ask that we empathize with the situation of millions of ukrainian citizens, hundreds of young ukrainians. they count on the european union, they count on our help in building democracy, in building civil society. it's really easy to criticize, and i, as a pole, remember that we had help once. (the president declared the common position adopted as amended)
unlike my colleague viggenin, i think today's debate is a great and useful one. it's not often that we have such an interesting debate in this room, and i'd like to thank you all for that. also, the speech of mp łukaciewska shows that even the ppe is divided on this matter, which is good news. it is worth thanking the socialists, mr. svoboda, mr. severin and mr. siwc for understanding that before the elections it is not possible to make decisions that are so unfavorable to our ukrainian friends. and commissioner file and rebecca harms are right to mention some disturbing facts that we can see.
the same arguments were used before the presidential elections, when we were discussing the resolution in the european parliament and our position on what is happening in ukraine before the presidential elections. the decision was made to write a resolution after the election, and that's what happened. we called on the government, the opposition to respect human rights, to respect freedom of speech, freedom of association. it is a matter of a few months since the resolution was adopted and we are already seeing that various provisions are not being respected. so i understand the concern that these local elections, which are crucial for maintaining, strengthening and entrenching democracy, may be conducted with some violation of the law. and that's why i'm one of the authors of this resolution. (the president declared the common position adopted as amended)
president of the council. - i'll take a second. this is the case with the 13 member states which have ratified the convention. i'll quote them, by the way, so you can whip one or the other. the convention has therefore been ratified by austria, belgium, the czech republic, denmark, germany, hungary, italy, portugal, slovenia, spain, sweden, the united kingdom and france. what is the situation now? it is appropriate to wait for an agreement on the code of conduct between the member states and the commission before depositing the formal instrument of confirmation, which will complement the ratification by the european union of the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. what would be the next steps? once ratification of the convention is completed, the council could return to the question of a possible 'toolbox' for the active promotion of the rights of disabled people - an idea also proposed by several member states. work on this project would go hand in hand with the preparation by the commission of a european disability strategy 2010-2020 and, as its name suggests, this strategy will present an action plan for the next ten years with the aim of ensuring that people with disabilities can fully enjoy their rights and freedoms.
i'd like to ask the minister a question that i think is quite important. the situation is very bad. of the 27 member states, 13 have already ratified the convention, but 14 - the majority - have not yet done so. why have only half the countries of the european union ratified a convention so important for disabled people?
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members of parliament, europe is very concerned at the devastating impact of the floods in pakistan, which destroyed livelihoods and communities throughout the country. the scale of the disaster is unprecedented in pakistan’s history. the cost in humanitarian needs, and to its already fragile economy, is immense. the severity of this crisis demands an immediate and substantial response, also taking into account the strategic importance of pakistan’s development, security and stability in the region. the european council on 16 september called for a comprehensive package of short-, medium- and longer-term measures that will help underpin pakistan’s recovery and future development. the initial eu response to the floods was swift and generous. our common contribution to the humanitarian aid efforts presently stands at more than eur 320 million from member states and the european commission in cash and in kind. this alone represents more than 60% of the global initial un appeal. the european council recognised that, in addition to the immediate and significant humanitarian aid and development assistance, ambitious trade measures are essential for economic recovery and growth. trade is therefore part of the long-term response to the ongoing crisis. to this end, the commission adopted on 7 october a proposal for unilateral suspension of import duties on a number of important export items from pakistan. this proposal is now submitted to member states and the european parliament. the commission is proposing to liberalise 75 tariff lines on imports from pakistan, accounting for 27% of pakistan’s current imports to the eu and almost eur 900 million. this would yield an increase in eu imports from pakistan of about eur 100 million. the objective of this measure is to support pakistan’s reconstruction efforts in the medium term. consequently, the special concessions will be limited in time – the commission is proposing three years. given the nature of pakistan’s industrial base and export basket, where textiles account for more than 60%, a large number of products for which we propose liberalisation are textile products. other industrial products such as ethanol are also included. if parliament and the council can act quickly on this we hope to have the measure in place on 1 january 2011. in parallel, we are working with other members of the world trade organisation to obtain the necessary permission – a wto waiver – which has to be granted before the measure takes effect. the trade concessions should be economically meaningful for pakistan, but at the same time take account of industrial sensitivities in the european union. therefore, in drawing up this proposal, we have tried to take into account industrial sensitivities in the eu, especially as regards textiles. our analysis has shown that the impact on eu production is likely to be modest. the potential increase in eu imports from pakistan (eur 100 million) corresponds to less than 0.5% of eu production value of the liberalised items, which in fact account for eur 24 billion. the european parliament’s support in helping this proposal come to fruition is essential to the presentation of a complete picture of eu solidarity in times of unprecedented needs. trade can be an important part of a long-term economic solution for pakistan. we have a tight calendar to work to. you can count on me and my staff to explain our approach and reduce any lingering concerns you may have.
on behalf of the ecr group. we are meeting this evening to consider a commission proposal to help pakistan deal with the floods. we must bear in mind that nearly 14 million people were affected by the pakistani flood, which reached bible proportions. the effects of these floods are unimaginable in pakistan itself, and will soon be felt around the world. why would you do that? cotton, which is called white gold and for which pakistan is one of the main producers, has not been producing well this year and has also been badly damaged in pakistan. clothing manufacturers, the leading brands in the world market, have already announced price increases for cotton products. cotton is a material that is found everywhere and is used to make clothing, banknotes, coffee filters, tents, fishing nets, as well as book covers and many other everyday items. it's got a lot of applications. we're in a time of crisis, and there's a rise in the price of everyday products. so the scale of the problems is very large.
in writing. information on the origin of products available on the eu markets is important for all consumers. country of origin labelling will enable citizens to make an informed choice when purchasing a product and will avoid health and safety risks from products from third countries that do not meet quality standards. the provisions on origin labelling also provide effective protection against counterfeiting and unfair competition. it is important to specify the detailed form and procedure for designating origin and to lay down penalties in cases of infringement of the provisions of the regulation.
ten days ago i had the opportunity to visit moldova as part of a special delegation from the committee on foreign affairs, along with members monica macovei and graham watson. we were in moldova at a very important moment for the country - a few weeks after the failed constitutional referendum of 5 september and at the same time a few weeks before the very important parliamentary elections, which will take place, i recall, on 28 november. what we have seen is first of all the very strong support of the people, the moldovan society for the process of european integration. nearly three-quarters of moldovans support the process. we also saw the tremendous progress that prime minister filat's government has made on the path to european integration, many reforms, including very big progress in the fight against corruption that had been eating away at this country before. of course there are problems: problems arising from the economic crisis, problems arising from the still unresolved situation in transnistria. but for the reform process to continue after 28 november, a clear signal from the european union is needed, and i hope that the forthcoming council will be able to push through visa liberalisation.
let's ask ourselves why we pay so much attention to a small country that lies around the black sea but has no access to it. maybe that's why we talk about moldova, because it's a small country where two worlds meet? one of them is a very difficult thing to go back to, and it was once a symbol of the soviet union. this is a divided country. part of it is occupied and supported by outside forces. i think this country deserves our support. it's a small country with very brave people who want to get closer to the european union and build democracy. commissioner, as in physics, it's not the force that counts in this situation, but the point of impact. the millions of euros you mention are not impressive, they are small sums, but if they are used in the right place at the right time, they can have the positive effect we want. i wish success to all those who want to build democracy in moldova. i am not interested in party affiliation, but i would like moldova to consolidate, build a better future for itself and soon become a partner for us.
i'm not going to let you do this. i had the opportunity to observe the re-election in moldova. when we talked to the representatives of the political parties of the opposition at that time, we saw a great desire for change. that change has taken place. the current prime minister of the government, v. filat, clearly declared his european aspirations as a representative of the opposition. we have already shown great appreciation for the results of his work when he was a guest here in the european parliament. this is also confirmed by the delegation of the committee on foreign affairs which was recently in moldova. the internal difficulties, and in particular the transnistria, the division, the tearing up of this country, which is a symbol of the past and the division, is a great difficulty. we must support the process that will allow transnistria to be annexed to moldova. there are a lot of problems there, including immigration. commissioner, any support for moldova, and i agree with the honorable member... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. congratulations on tackling the issue of containers lost at sea. on 8 february of that year, ferries from poland to sweden were directly threatened the finnish freighter linda, which was sailing from rotterdam to st. petersburg, lost three containers containing 8.3 tonnes of substances classified as dangerous for the environment, 7 tonnes of products dangerous for marine organisms and 5.5 tonnes of flammable substances on the route of polish and swedish vessels. fortunately, this time, tragedy was averted. i agree that all containers should be weighed in port and properly secured before the ship leaves for the sea. but this is a long-term plan. the plan for today is for the commission to introduce a regulation covering special surveillance of containers of substances classified as dangerous. i therefore ask the commission: when can we expect the first action to be taken on this matter?
the report on the integrated maritime policy calls for deeper reflection and requires our greater attention. the short presentation of the report under rule 48 and the limited possibility of tabling amendments, contrary to the principle of rejecting most of the amendments tabled by the european commission, do not give us any optimism or hope that the transport committee will take full responsibility for the integrated maritime policy. the maritime sector in the european union is in a state of crisis. the industry is being destroyed by dumping and competition from the far east and the takeover of shipping lines by cheap flags. this is due to the absence of an integrated european maritime policy. we're dealing with a crisis in the shipbuilding industry. i would add that in my country the two largest shipyards have recently been closed down, precisely because of the pressure exerted by the european commission and the ineffective action of the polish government. this has caused massive emigration of workers and increased unemployment. i therefore call for an integrated maritime policy to be properly addressed and approached with full responsibility.
colleagues, i have just come from the conference of presidents. it is a great privilege and honour for me to inform you about the very important results for all of us. we are fighting for human rights in our parliament on behalf of 500 million citizens. following a substantial debate today involving very wide and deep discussions, the conference of presidents decided to award the 2010 sakharov prize for the freedom of thought to mr guillermo fariñas. (applause) guillermo fariñas is an independent journalist and political dissident. he was ready to sacrifice and risk his own health and life as a means of pressure to achieve change in cuba. he used hunger strikes to protest and to challenge the lack of freedom of speech in cuba, carrying the hopes of all those who care for freedom, human rights and democracy. i hope to present the award to him in person here in strasbourg in december, which would be a tremendous moment for the european parliament and for all cuban prisoners of conscience. i sincerely hope that, together with guillermo fariñas, another cuban laureate from 2005, the ladies in white – las damas de blanco – will also be able to collect the sakharov prize in person. let me add that all the candidates were excellent from the point of view of our feelings on human rights and fighting for these all over the world. we can congratulate all of them, but we had to make a choice, and there was no other possibility. i would like to underline that we have a lot of winners all over the world and we support all of them. let us say that once again. (applause)
madam president! i'd like to support the freedom mp's proposal. it seems to me that it would be sensible for us - the european parliament - to carry over our assessment of the situation in ukraine, which we discussed yesterday, to the next part-session of parliament, when we are after the important events in ukraine and our perspective will then be much broader. we will have the reports of our colleagues who will be taking part in the elections in ukraine, and i think that parliament will be wise to postpone this vote.
thank you very much, madam president. if so, i will speak again: in recent years the european union's economy has suffered from financial crises and instability, both local and global. to prevent such dangerous situations in the future, there must be prepared plans for assistance and appropriate response both before and after the impasse. the instrument for stability does this very well. financial and technical assistance should also include support for human and economic development and consultation in cases of violations of human rights, democracy and fundamental freedoms. i also support the rapporteur's position on the development of the strategic planning sector. this is particularly important in preventing social conflicts and in setting up the external action service.
the development cooperation instrument directly contributes to the promotion of democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights in partner countries and regions. it is not only intended to support sustainable social, economic and political development but also the gradual integration of these countries into the world economy. as a member of the committee on agriculture and the committee on the environment, i would like to draw attention to another benefit of this cooperation, namely international cooperation in the management of natural resources, environmental protection and care for biodiversity. in particular, i support the fifth amendment, which recalls the importance of the sugar sector to the economy. let's not forget that food security is of the utmost importance to developing countries.
in yesterday's vote on mrs estreli's report, i supported 20 weeks of full paid maternity leave because we need a fair and decent minimum for the length and payment of maternity leave throughout europe. i abstained on the issue of paternity and adoption leave because the european commission has announced a separate directive on this issue and in the interests of clarity of eu law i do not want paternity leave to be included in the directive on the protection of pregnant workers. i hope that the european commission will soon conclude the social consultation and come forward with satisfactory proposals on paternity, adoption and self-employment leave so that all young mothers in europe have the same right.
in writing. - we have specific rules on the labelling of products produced in the eu. we provide our consumers both within and outside the union with information on the origin of these products. i believe that we must introduce legislation as soon as possible which will require the same information from third countries placing their goods on the eu market. this practice is already being used in many large third countries which are our largest trading partners. in many large countries, such as the united states, canada, japan and saudi arabia, consumers are protected by the obligation to mark goods imported into their territory. it is important that the consumers and producers of our main trading partners are subject to the same rules as our own consumers and producers. then we can talk about fair play. trade policy can be closely linked to development policy. the labelling of products can help to increase exports from developing countries. european consumers are sensitive to aid to less-developed countries and, by knowing where a product comes from, can contribute to the development of poorer countries. the labelling facilitates choice for consumers who can often link the geographical origin of a product to its market value. european standards guarantee respect for the environment and the health and safety of consumers, which affects the competitiveness of our products.
in writing. − an integrated maritime policy is of great importance to the european union's economy, as it can significantly improve its competitiveness. the framework should take into account the need to strengthen economic development, increase employment in the sector and protect the environment. a consolidated approach to strengthening the role of european countries in marine research, marine technology and engineering development and marine resource development should also be an important part of this strategy. at the same time, the aim is to eliminate threats such as piracy, illegal fishing and environmental pollution. an integrated maritime policy should therefore not only take into account the consolidation of several maritime activities and strategic maritime economies and the maximum use of maritime potential, but also pay attention to improving working conditions at sea.
in writing. - the european union promoted and adopted the maritime package in the previous parliament. it was a package covering all the basic areas of the maritime economy. the commission notes that the union industry has been able to increase its sales volumes by more than 50% over the period considered. an integrated maritime policy covering transport, administration, environmental protection, management of marine resources and maritime tourism is important. these are important reasons to support this report.
in writing. − the european union's maritime and coastal economic activities currently generate 40% of the eu's gdp and are projected to grow in the future. this is why maritime activities are undoubtedly a very important and powerful part of europe. i believe that further development of the maritime economy is necessary. until now, the eu's maritime policy has been developed separately in areas such as maritime transport, the maritime economy, new technologies, coastal areas, marine energy, fisheries, law and order at sea, tourism, protection of the marine environment and marine research. these separate actions are often contradictory and have a negative impact on maritime policy as a whole. it is clear that an integrated maritime policy will contribute to the continued sustainable economic development of the european union. it will, inter alia, ensure greater coherence between different policy areas, develop better regulatory and cross-cutting instruments, and exploit the potential of the marine and maritime sectors in an economic and environmental way. moreover, i believe it is important to make the sector more attractive to young people by providing training and activities to encourage young people to work in this sector.
in writing. - i welcome the result of today's vote. the pursuit of sustainable exploitation and an integrated approach to the management of oceans, seas and coasts should be one of the priorities of the european union. i am convinced that the common maritime policy will bring positive results in both the short and long term. removing political barriers and creating synergies between the different activities that have a direct impact on european maritime areas are objectives that we must not forget. i believe that the european parliament should call for a series of sectoral measures, particularly in the context of the negative socioeconomic consequences that often affect fishermen when measures are taken to restore fish stocks or protect ecosystems.
on behalf of the ppe group. the evictions in zimbabwe are an outrageous disregard for internationally recognised human rights. forced evictions without compensation and without providing alternative housing are completely contrary to international law. the zimbabwean government is in flagrant violation of civil, political, economic and social rights guaranteed by the african charter on human and peoples' rights. the continuation of these displacements is putting more and more people at risk of injury and homelessness. we call on the government of zimbabwe to end these practices, to end the forced displacement. the displaced persons and their property should be given legal protection, compensation and redress for the victims, and above all, shelter, food and water.
on behalf of the s&d group. just look at the headlines of zimbabwe over the past five years to get a sense of the conditions in the country, which has been ruled for three decades by president robert mugabe. headlines like "zimbabwe, police beat the opposition" and "mugabe destroyed africa" are among the most mild words, and the authorities of this african regime are under constant pressure from the international public. extreme poverty and lack of access to basic health services, gigantic unemployment rates of up to 90 percent, and a low life expectancy of only 44 years today, are the true picture of zimbabwe. under these circumstances, it is difficult to understand why the government is making it a priority to evict 20,000 citizens from the suburbs of the capital, harare, forcing them to abandon their modest possessions. i join the call of international organizations like amnesty international that the government of zimbabwe stop the repression against its citizens and focus on actually helping them in schools, hospitals and the labour market. a poor country like zimbabwe cannot afford to waste time and money investing in alternative topics.
on behalf of the ecr group. i had the opportunity to go to cambodia twice. the first time was two years ago with the european parliament's election observation mission, the second time was six months ago. i have to say that cambodia is a country that has developed very fast in recent years (i mean economic development), as well as other countries in this region of the world. unfortunately, with the rapid economic development, we are not dealing with the process of democratization of this country. because there is no true democracy without a strong media that controls the ruling party, without a strong opposition, without a strong ngo sector. the conviction of sam rainsy, not the first, is another blow to the opposition. if this sentence is upheld, sam rainsy will not be able to run in the next parliamentary elections, although he is quite popular in his country. the verdict is so sobering that still, more than 30 years after the fall of the khmer rouge regime, many of the regime's leaders in cambodia have not been tried. the cambodian-vietnamese border issue certainly does not serve the region's stability, but this issue must be resolved politically and not through a court ruling.
comhalta de chuid an choimisiúin. − a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom i dtús mo bhuíochas a ghlacadh leis na feisirí a ghlac páirt sa díospóireacht. i would like to thank those meps who have submitted resolutions on cambodia for this urgency debate. the situation there is indeed a matter of concern. we have had frank exchanges with our cambodian interlocutors, most recently at the joint committee in brussels on 8 october, about the state of the country’s democratic institutions and, in particular, the treatment of the opposition in parliament. the fact that the opposition leader, sam rainsy, has had to seek refuge in france is symptomatic of a deteriorating trend. the same can be said of the judiciary’s involvement in politics and the prosecution of members of the opposition, including those who should be able to benefit from parliamentary immunity. there is a danger that the national assembly will no longer be able to function as a forum for the free exchange of views. the media, too, are under pressure. there are some bright spots. cambodia has accepted all the recommendations of the united nations human rights council in the universal periodic review. we also note that a new penal code and an anti-corruption law have been enacted. clearly we will need to follow how these are implemented in practice. we shall continue to remind cambodia of the recommendations put forward by our election observation missions in the past. establishment of an effective human rights committee is an important objective. we welcome the government’s intention to proceed with this and its initiative in setting up a joint forum with civil society organisations. cambodia remains a very poor country. there is a lot that can be done to keep up the momentum of recent economic growth without, at the same time, increasing disparities in society. this should include reform of the rules on land ownership and an end to unsustainable practices in land and forest management, including the exploitation of natural resources. sanctioning the government or reducing the level of our contacts would do nothing for the poorest and most vulnerable and would only embolden those who pay lip service to democracy. therefore, i cannot agree that suspending our bilateral agreement would be helpful. there is no substitute for patient dialogue. if we are not seen as a major player in the country’s development, we shall lose an opportunity to influence events. yet there is much we can do in cambodia at all levels, from the prime minister’s office to civil society. we shall continue to encourage positive initiatives that cambodia is taking in favour of human rights, development and gender equality, while continuing to make the case for a truly pluralistic parliamentary democracy, a freer press and a more independent judiciary.
the human rights situation in cambodia is an ever-growing concern. we are faced with the problem of blatant human rights violations by the authoritarian government that is chewing away at the fabric of democracy. as cambodia’s largest donor, the eu needs to take swift action in protecting the citizens of cambodia and reassuring them that the democratic process will not falter. i would like to take this opportunity to address the government of cambodia and request their compliance with the un special rapporteur’s report in a swift and timely manner. the case of sam rainsy brings to light the injustices occurring in cambodia, where mr rainsy, as the leader of the opposition party and member of parliament, has been confronted with what can only be viewed as a deliberate effort to curtail any opposition to the established authoritarian government. the practices of charging and detaining any persons viewed as a threat to the government must end. furthermore, the citizens still have no guarantee of independence and impartiality from the judiciary. these issues must be confronted and addressed immediately by this parliament, to assure the citizens of cambodia that this parliament continues to support and defend their right to democracy.
author. − during the communist era, when solidarity in poland was fighting for human rights and democracy, the slogan was common: 'there is no freedom without solidarity'. today, in the context of what is happening in the north caucasus, although not only there, but also in many other parts of russia, it can be said that there is no stability without the rule of law. it's very important to talk about both of these things at the same time. we cannot talk about economic and political relations with russia without mentioning human rights in that country. it's really a system of vessels connected, not two separate subjects. basic fairness requires not just talking about warming relations with russia, this great country, but also demanding that moscow respect human rights, including in the context of the man who won the sakharov prize. it is a kind of slap in the face to the european parliament and the european union.
on behalf of the ppe group. some time ago, oleg orlov said that the biggest problem in the affairs of the north caucasus was the rejection by decision-makers of the most important aspect, which is human rights. the violation of human rights destabilises the situation in the north caucasus, prolongs the conflict, reduces the chances of its resolution and, in essence, supports the terrorist underground. human rights organisations such as memorial should be supported because they are essential to the creation of a stable and free society, and they are also needed to create real and lasting stability as such. the european union is also committed to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment, and to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
on behalf of the ecr group. it is a paradox that on the day we announced our decision to award the 2010 sakharov prize, we are discussing the persecution of one of last year's sakharov prize laureates. i would remind you that oleg orlov, along with other members of the memorial organization, received this award last year for his uncompromising and courageous struggle for the truth about the crimes committed by the russians in the chechen republic. today we are discussing the further persecution that oleg orlov is facing for courageously demanding an explanation of all the circumstances of the death of natalia estimirova, who was the head of the memorial organization in chechnya. it should be remembered that the actions of the so-called president ramzan kadyrov against mr. orlov would not have been possible without the support of the kremlin. and that is why i am calling on all the authorities of the european union, including the commission and the council, to put pressure on president medvedev to stop this kind of persecution in chechnya.
i'd like to start by correcting a statement made by one of my colleagues. there was a report that memorial representatives were unable to come to parliament to collect the award last year. well, they were here. it's the ladies in white who can't collect the prize because they're not allowed out of havana. a june 2010 report by the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe published information on further cases of human rights violations in the north caucasus. the russian authorities claim to be making efforts to bring stability, but impunity for human rights violations and the lack of the rule of law remain the main obstacles to genuine and lasting stability in the region. the civilian population is still exposed to violence. torture and ill-treatment, enforced disappearances, arbitrary killings and arbitrary arrests are commonplace. investigations into human rights violations are ineffective and flawed. often, they result only in impunity for the perpetrators, which reinforces distrust of government institutions and the entire justice system. it is our duty to take all possible action not only to monitor the situation in the north caucasus on a continuous basis, but also to take action to ensure the rule of law, to support civic and democratic initiatives and to put an end to lawlessness in the region.
in writing. recently, there has been a lot of media talk about a new opening in relations between the european community and the russian federation. the fruit of these efforts is the joint german-russian construction of the nord stream gas pipeline, or the offer to integrate russia into the european security system, proposed by nicolas sarkozy. it seems that in the euphoria of new economic agreements, eu decision-makers have already forgotten about the cases of anna politovska and natalia esternina. for years we have built the union on the belief that if people are equal in some sense, then everyone is equal in everything. the fight for respect for the rule of law, civil liberties and the dignity of the human person must therefore remain our priority. the european union must respond decisively to the repeated violations of human rights in russia and the drama of the democratic opposition. according to media reports, every 31st of the month, demonstrations organized by the "strategy 31" movement take place in russian cities. its members are protesting in defense of the freedom of assembly, assembly, march and picket guaranteed by article 31 of the constitution of the russian federation. since its inception, the movement has faced opposition from the authorities. each time, the demonstrations are dispersed by omon, and the participants are harassed, beaten, taken deep into the forest, arrested or held in prison without giving an official reason. it is the duty of the union to take a closer look at these actions and to voice its opposition. this is what not only the russian people expect from us, but the whole of the european community.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 21 october 2010.
- i have a few comments for the opening of the session: on 6 november 2010 in moscow, unknown perpetrators severely beat journalist oleg kaszyn. this brutal, not robbery-related robbery deserves the highest condemnation. in this case, we note and appreciate the swift response and personal commitment of president medvedev in the search for the perpetrators and hope that they will be effective. on october 31st, for the first time in two years, an opposition demonstration took place in moscow's triumphal square without the intervention of the police. we welcome this as a promising signal from the russian authorities, and hope that the european parliament's longstanding calls for further democratization of public life in russia will not go unheeded. third, in baghdad, ten days ago, christians were attacked while praying in their church. there were fatalities and there were injuries. on behalf of the european parliament, i once again call for respect for freedom of religion and for an end to religious violence in this region of the world. fourth, the nobel prize ceremony will be held in stockholm on december 10. we consider unacceptable the attempts of the chinese authorities to put pressure on the member states of the european union not to participate in this ceremony. the european parliament is tirelessly committed to the respect of the fundamental and inalienable rights of every human being throughout the world, including, of course, china. the european union and thus the european parliament will be represented by the head of the european union delegation to norway at the december celebrations.
thank you for your attention! please also use one-minute speeches for this purpose. that's also the subject of this talk. thank you, colleague, for bringing this matter to our attention.
the final draft agenda, drawn up in accordance with rules 130 and 131 of the rules of procedure, was distributed by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 21 october 2010. the following changes are proposed: wednesday: item: 'strengthening the osce' 'the role of the european union' will be based on a statement by the council on behalf of the vice-president of the commission - high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy. mr gauzes' report on alternative investment fund managers and the commission's statement on the single market act will be dealt with in the order mentioned after the debate on the european union's external strategy on passenger data and before the oral question on the partnership for innovation. two reports by mrs griesbeck on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and georgia have been removed from the agenda. thursday: mrs lichtenberger's report on the request for waiver of mr lisk's immunity will be tabled before the vote on thursday. the vote on the draft decision of the european parliament on the closure of the accounts of the european police college for the financial year 2008 is postponed to the next part-session. the vote on the draft resolution on ukraine is postponed to the second part-session in november in strasbourg.
(parliament rejected the request)
(parliament rejected the request)
the next item on the agenda is a joint debate on the statements by the council and the european commission on the forthcoming eu-us summit and the transatlantic economic council, and on the statements by the council and the european commission on the eu-us data protection agreement.
mr. chairman, please! one of the pillars of cooperation within the european union is the free movement of persons. as a body of international law, the reformed union is committed to equal treatment for all its citizens, including in the area of freedom of movement throughout the world. in the run-up to the eu-us summit, it should be recalled that 4 out of 27 member states, including poland, are still subject to a restrictive visa regime. the issue of equal treatment of union members in the visa-free regime should be a priority during the summit. this will be the first test of president van rompuy's effectiveness. we'll also find out if the talks with president barack obama will be seen as a start of a real dialogue, or if they'll just be a courtesy meeting on the sidelines of the nato summit. a strong visa position will tell whether the us is serious about the union as a subject of international law.
mr. chairman, please! two years ago, when barack obama was elected president of the united states, it seemed that after the difficult period of his predecessor's administration, european-american relations would be normalized. it seemed that the period of unilateral action in washington on the international stage was over. we all had great faith that in the face of this great crisis, the united states and the union would work together to change the world in a way that would bring economic security. today we know that those were bright hopes. after the copenhagen climate summit, after the disrespect of the spanish presidency by barack obama, the americans once again humiliated us and the whole world by making a unilateral decision to print money. despite numerous promises to the representatives of european governments, they made the decision without any consultation. in the name of their own particular interests, they have decided to take actions that will hit the european economy. it is worth taking the opportunity of the upcoming eu-us summit to express our dissatisfaction and to call for a partnership. cooperation is not only in our interest, but also in washington's, especially in the face of the emerging new geopolitical order.
in writing. the forthcoming summit between the european union and the united states will be the first summit since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, which, among other things, has allowed europe to focus more on relations with third countries. the forthcoming summit will be an opportunity to outline the framework for transatlantic cooperation for the next period. the european union and the united states, because of their global position and shared values of the rule of law, democracy and human rights, have a key role to play in addressing the challenges of the 21st century. we need constructive, deeper cooperation in areas such as the economic and financial crisis, the fight against terrorism, global stabilisation, peace in the middle east, non-proliferation, development aid and climate change. another climate summit is coming up in cancun. i hope that the united states will show more commitment when it comes to our collective commitments to fight climate change. as a major player in the international arena, we should set an example for other countries. the recent ecological disaster off the coast of the gulf of mexico has shown that disasters know no borders, and their effects are felt globally - ultimately by our citizens. the need for global cooperation seems to be an obvious one. in the context of last week's elections, it is worth mentioning that they could be the starting point for a new, deeper relationship between the european parliament and the congress. a more intensive dialogue will be beneficial for both sides.
in writing. one of the greatest threats facing the world in recent years is the asymmetrical war on terrorism and the threat posed by the growth of international organised crime. an effective umbrella of protection against these dangers cannot be built without appropriate cooperation between europe and the us. an important element of this cooperation is the exchange of information. the pnr is therefore a highly important element of community security. however, it should be noted that its effectiveness depends solely on full reciprocity in the exchange of data with the us side. i also hope that the adoption of the agreement will speed up the signing of agreements between the usa and the european community on the so-called visa viewer programme, which will allow the abolition of visas to the usa for polish citizens at least.
the single market act is good news for the internal market and thus for businesses, consumers and citizens. i am pleased that the commission is presenting such an ambitious programme to complete the single market. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a welcome step forward. the majority of them were in favour of a holistic vision of the single market, which would help to complete the work begun over 20 years ago. it is important to create a genuine, single market that is friendly to citizens, where they can avoid the problems of opening bank accounts, registering cars, recognising qualifications, transferring pension rights, ordering goods and services from other member states via the internet. however, my priority remains the achievement of the free movement of services and thus the further work on the implementation of the services directive. i have to agree with what professor mario monti said yesterday. he said that many of the initiatives that the single market act contains have been known to us for a long time, that they were not new problems or new solutions. i therefore call on the european commission, the member states and my colleagues in the european parliament to speed up the work and the implementation of the legislation that is essential for citizens, consumers and businesses.
i would like to share with you my experience of meeting a young journalist today about yesterday's hearing on the single market act. the journalist was very impressed and very surprised by this document, and he said, "this is a revolutionary document, why is it not widely discussed, why is it not at the centre of the european debate?" we must ensure that the 50 points of the single market document presented by the commissioner are at the heart of the european debate in our parliament, in the other institutions, in the member states and in the media. this is a very important and specific document. we all know that peace, democracy and human rights are the most important things, but what is tangible to each of us is what makes our daily lives easier: the common market. they say it's our flagship. but it's not, as professor monti said, a ship or a flag, but the sea and the wind. and we must help our citizens to make these winds and waters friendly to them.
in writing. the european commission's communication, based on professor mario monti's report 'towards a single market act', is a very important document that defines the eu's actions in the area of the internal market for the next dozen years. among the initiatives presented by the commission, i have paid particular attention to those related to the creation of a 'digital' internal market, because i believe that this is the future of the european economy. without diminishing the good intentions of the commission, i have the impression that it has focused more on the aspect of 'protecting' creativity than on removing barriers to the development of commercial services on the internet. this is evident, for example, from the number of proposed laws. however, in the communication, which covers as many as 50 initiatives from the wider internal market, i missed the subject on which i have been working for several years, which is the creation of uniform conditions for access to media services in the common market. the aim is to promote signatures throughout the european union under television programmes which make it very easy for deaf people to access the media and to learn foreign languages. i hope that the european commission will take up this matter in the near future.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. europe must evolve and innovation is the best way to overcome the current crisis. the commission has also proposed that the eu should be able to support the development of the european research area by providing funding for research and development activities. in addition to flexible legal standards for company formation, tax breaks and easier patent registration, financial factors will be the main driving force behind development. without outside help, the companies would not be able to fund the long-term, costly research themselves. however, there is a problem: the funds from the eu budget alone are often not enough, so companies are forced to invest huge amounts of their own money. in this case, the central and eastern european entrepreneurs are at a disadvantage. without their own resources, they cannot raise money from the state coffers, they cannot compete for eu money. this situation, which is also evident in other areas, leads to an accumulation of resources in the rich regions of the european union and widening disparities in research and development. the president of the european commission once said that 'there is no union without solidarity'. hence my question: how does the commission intend to boost the innovation capacity of the new member states? can they count on more financial resources to help them join the old union more quickly?
mr president, a lot has been said about innovation over the last years. it has become a symbol of a policy instrument that can fix all our problems, so there are huge expectations and we must deliver. however, the time has now come for us to be more pragmatic. without doubt, innovation can play a fundamental role in reinvigorating growth in the european economy, but for this to happen we need a concrete, strong and joint public-private effort. this effort should aim to improve framework conditions and access to funding and to refocus innovation policy. but what matters most now is time, and we must move quickly and decisively from ambition to action by identifying and eliminating factors that still hinder innovation in europe, but first and foremost by designing effective new policy instruments. european innovation partnerships can be such an instrument, and a potentially excellent one. we should act urgently to put the first european innovation partnerships into action, and our approach should be ‘learning by doing’ and using the good practice that exists in europe. today, innovation is usually born within a well-functioning innovation system in which regions play a key role. this means that we can accelerate the move towards an innovation-based economy by fully exploiting the potential of current cohesion policy investment in innovation, which is eur 85 billion, as well as its future post-2013 commitment to smart growth. cohesion policy can make innovation work across all member states and regions.
on behalf of the hr/vp. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have the honour to speak to you on behalf of the high representative, mrs ashton. as you know, in three weeks' time the heads of state and government of the 56 participating states of the osce will meet in astana for a summit. the date 35 years after the helsinki final act, 20 years after the charter of paris, 11 years after the istanbul summit , and the location kazakhstan bear witness to the importance of the event. the osce is looking for a new impetus. some have questioned the relevance of the organization. some of the differences between member states, its inability to resolve the last vestiges of the post-cold war, the frozen conflicts, have gradually paralysed it, undermining its credibility. the call by president medvedev in june 2008 for a review of the european security architecture and a treaty-based approach was not only well received, but also revitalized the dialogue within the osce and initiated the corfu process. the debate anchored in the osce, without excluding other relevant security forums, has allowed for a certain return of confidence. the european union and its member states have played a central role in this, and this has been underlined and supported by mr rouček's motion. the review conference, the final phase of which will be held in astana, helped to outline the outline of the next summit. our representatives in vienna are currently negotiating the final document which they will submit to the various heads of state and government. this document should be divided into three parts: first, a reaffirmation of osce principles, standards and commitments; second, common challenges and priorities; and finally, an essential part for the european union, an action plan. the final document must be clear and readable by all our citizens. the european union's ambition, joined in this by other participating states, is to rebuild the osce into a security community embracing the vast euro-atlantic and eurasian region, a community that is one, without dividing lines, whose citizens live in freedom and peace, where disputes are resolved peacefully and where the common principles, standards and commitments that constitute the osce acquis are respected. this is the objective that the summit must set, the mandate that it must issue, the roadmap to achieve this being the action plan. to safeguard the comprehensive and cooperative approach to security which is the hallmark of the osce and which makes it unique, the three dimensions must be balanced in the action plan as this motion emphasizes. the european union will ensure that it reflects its priorities as set out by the foreign ministers at their meeting in june this year in all three dimensions. in the political-military dimension, progress in the discussions on the vienna document on security and confidence-building measures is encouraging. some progress can be made at the summit. as for the treaty on conventional forces in europe, it is imperative that its viability be restored. the negotiations are proceeding well and it is up to the heads of state or government to give the necessary impetus to their continuation. the osce's capabilities in all three dimensions need to be strengthened to enable it to better fulfil its role in early warning, conflict prevention and crisis resolution and reconstruction. the concrete proposals from the union and its partners are on the table. the creation of a security community requires a settlement of the conflicts in transnistria, nagorno-karabakh and georgia, which still threaten to flare up, as the events of 2008 have shown. the lack of progress undermines confidence, and the summit must be the moment to express a common political will to resolve these conflicts, to intensify efforts in this direction and to make this will concrete in a roadmap. the osce must look to the future and join forces with the other relevant international organisations to face the new transnational threats. these threats are well known enough that i do not have to go into them here, and the european union also wants the issue of energy security to be dealt with in the context of conflict resolution. the economic and environmental dimension must be reinvigorated, good governance and transparency commitments better implemented, and the response to the challenge of energy security posed by climate change better ensured. human rights, fundamental freedoms, democracy and the rule of law are the cornerstones of the values and principles on which the security community will be based. reaffirming their validity is not enough. it is essential to strengthen them and to consolidate their implementation. the heads of state or government will be asked to consider ways of making progress in this direction: review and more effective implementation of commitments and better follow-up to the recommendations of the osce institutions. the human dimension is of particular importance to the european union, as it forms the basis for 'living together' for citizens and states alike. the union stresses the need to strengthen press freedom and the importance of free and democratic elections in the osce area. the role of the office for democratic institutions and human rights must be strengthened in this respect and its autonomy preserved. the necessary means must also be provided to strengthen the action of the high representative in favour of media freedom.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we have information from the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, and on the other hand we also have a resolution which is being prepared by mr roucka, in which he states that the corfu process has given the osce new impetus, as the representative of the high representative also confirms in his statement. i wanted to say that the osce is and can continue to be a very important institution in terms of resolving regional conflicts, national minority issues and the process of democratization of the member states. at the same time, a balance must be maintained between these three pillars, namely the political-military, the economic-environmental and the human dimension. the traditional understanding of security through hard power, which is about providing security through the presence of military forces or stabilizing forces, is as important as economic, social, food or environmental security. the osce should put more emphasis on these activities. i would like to emphasise the role played by the office for democratic institutions and human rights in the field of democratisation, including through election observation and recommendations in reports. the osce will play a greater role if we strengthen it, for example by setting up the odir office. i also wanted to emphasise that the positive role of the osce is not limited to the osce's role as mediator, but also to the direction of its activities. it also brings together those countries that take the lead on a rotating basis. i would mention the current leadership of kazakhstan, which has led to the resolution of the crisis in kyrgyzstan, or to mediation between turkmenistan and uzbekistan, amongst other things, although we are aware of the shortcomings in respect for human rights in that country, as human rights monitoring organisations have pointed out. the december alma-ata summit should adopt an action plan that will lead to the finalisation of the osce security community charter. such a plan is also in the interest of the member states of the european union. i would like to give my full support to the position and the resolution tabled by mr rouck.
i would like to say that we as the european union should strengthen cooperation with the osce, especially where our interests are present, for example in transnistria or in georgia under the sarkozy 6-point plan. it is also worth strengthening this cooperation on the issues mrs hautala mentioned, namely human rights. but it is also worth remembering that the european union is a separate entity and that cooperation with the osce should not be dependent on decisions taken by the osce, to which, as you know, not only european countries belong. accepting full cooperation with the osce would be counterproductive for the european union. the cooperation should be strong, but we should also keep the two entities separate.
on behalf of the vpt/hr. - mr president, i should like to begin by thanking you and all the speakers for the quality of this debate. i will of course pass on to lady ashton your suggestions, particularly on the rationalisation of resources, the use of her new service - the european external action service - and cooperation. i shall not go back to my initial remarks in this debate. many of them brought up a number of common themes. a special point: the human rights situation in kazakhstan. you are right to stress this aspect and many of you have done so tonight. this is a very important point for the european union and we have been reiterating this in every meeting with the kazakh leaders. the need to continue efforts on political rights, social rights and democratisation was mentioned - contrary to what you seem to be saying - during mr nazarbaev's last visit here. so i would simply like to conclude by saying that the astana summit, hosted by kazakhstan, offers our highest officials an important opportunity to free ourselves from the burdens of the past, to engage in building a security community from vancouver to vladivostok - as you have mentioned, mr rouček - and to reflect on the new tasks that lie ahead of us in the political and security environment of the 21st century. we are pleased that parliament can support the priorities of the european union and its representatives. we need this explicit support to honour the dignity of the person, to organise free and fair elections, to coordinate our energies against transnational threats and to achieve harmonious economic and social development in a sustainable environment. may the political will to write a new page in the fruitful history of the osce be realized in astana. the european union - rest assured - will take its responsibilities.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is facing a new dimension in the face of terrorism, cyber threats, trafficking in human beings and drugs. to meet these challenges, we need to develop a robust system for detecting threats and resolving conflicts. the osce is the right place to have a broad discussion on european security. it is one of the largest forums for the exchange of ideas on international security, and has proven itself to be effective in the past. at the same time, the osce structures have unfortunately not been able to meet the modern requirements of the times, as exemplified by the unresolved conflict in the caucasus and the weak response to the conflict in georgia in 2008. it is in our common interest to modernise these structures so that they can be used in the future to respond rapidly to emerging threats. the osce's capabilities in this area should be strengthened by modifying old and by creating new mechanisms for its work. only in this way will the osce be able to effectively provide security in europe and eurasia. driven by concern for the security of europe, we should continue the process we started in 2008 in corfu. with our support, the osce can become a significant and effective force for order in europe and eurasia. i welcome the initiative to deepen cooperation between the eu and the osce.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. as you can see, there is a consensus in the house, and it is likely that tomorrow it will be adopted, not unanimously, but by a large majority and with the support of all the political groups. i do not want to repeat all the arguments put forward by the rapporteur and the commissioner. indeed, taiwan has all the conditions, both economic and political, to step up cooperation and visa-free travel is helpful in this regard. i think that's our responsibility, because taiwan is showing that liberal democracy is possible everywhere, in every cultural circle, that this transformation that's happened there has been successful, and i think we should support that. and finally, there is a reason in addition to these economic reasons, the reason that mr borghezio has mentioned, a political reason which i shall not go into further, but we all also understand that it is important and that our friends in taiwan should be supported in this matter.
mr. chairman, please! i'm glad the commissioner is still here, and i'll take this opportunity to say that the matter is also of concern to you. i know it's the third time, but it's not funny, so i'd like to inform you that on november 5th and 6th, a journalist from the russian newspaper "kommersant" oleg kaszyn was beaten up outside his house in moscow. you must know about this. with broken legs, a broken jaw, broken fingers and a damaged skull, he was taken to the hospital. this is not the first case of this kind that has occurred in our eastern neighbors. today i read an interview with one of the most serious polish analysts of the russian scene and he claims that in the last 10 years 300 journalists have been killed on the territory of the russian federation. this is extremely worrying, because the issue of free speech and civil liberties is one of the most important things that constitute us as the european union. and i would ask you to emphasize in your talks with our russian friends, always and everywhere, that this type of action cannot take place, because it makes our common dialogue difficult or even impossible.
mr. chairman, please! the european parliament has repeatedly stood up for fundamental human rights, civil liberties and political freedoms. that is why i was very surprised that at the previous session in strasbourg the european parliament unfortunately did not take a position on the upcoming local elections in ukraine, despite very serious signals and reliable information from reliable sources that there are numerous irregularities, harassment of the opposition, restrictions on the right of journalists to communicate freely with the public in ukraine, governed by the party of regions. i am all the more surprised that this decision has been postponed once again and will not be put to the vote tomorrow. this is a very disturbing situation and it needs to be explained. is it true that some members of the european parliament are speaking in favour of the elections, when both the us state department and mrs ashton point to numerous irregularities and violations of electoral law? this case needs to be cleared up.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! demographic change, the decline in the workforce, and the decline in births are creating a new age division of the world. it seems necessary to create an intergenerational initiative aimed at older people and to improve the relationship between them and the rest of society. particular attention should also be paid to improving the housing conditions and health of older people, especially in regions where the population is declining by 20-30%. for example, in bulgaria, the average pension is around 100 euros, so there is a need to provide pensioners with a better life in dignity. i would like to point out that it is important to create a catalogue of the most serious problems, which will allow us to prepare concrete solutions. it is also important to find and use with skill examples of good practice in regions that are coping well with the problem and the effects of ageing, especially in the context of the european year of older persons. thank you, sir.
in writing. this is a very important report that should be used by the european commission in developing priorities and actions for 2012, the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations. i have raised the issue of active ageing in parliament on many occasions, and it should be a priority for the european union and all member states in the years to come. you can't change the demographics. in view of the ageing of the european population, the professional activation of persons of retirement age is necessary. we must not dismiss their experience and their desire to continue working. i therefore support the initiatives proposed by the rapporteur, in particular the european pact for people over 50 and active ageing. the 'fair retirement' initiative is also of great importance. following up on the report, i call on the council and the member states to ensure that all europeans are rapidly granted adequate pensions that ensure a decent life, not just a life above the poverty line. we must combat all forms of discrimination against older people, which has many facets. there is a mistaken belief that older ones have fewer needs. difficulties in accessing credit for the elderly and discrimination in the labour market are common. there are often absurd situations where a woman in her forties is considered too old to work, while graduates are expected to have a few years of work experience.
the first item on the agenda is the presentation of the court of auditors' annual report for 2009.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the court of auditors is a great auditor, a policeman, you might say, a friendly policeman, although i sometimes get the impression that it is overlooking the institutions it controls, that it is too lenient and too benevolent. the conclusion of this report, the conclusion of the court's work, is this: it is good, but it is not perfect. i have the impression that many people in europe are more pessimistic than the court of auditors. the role of the court must be strengthened, the court must be credible, so that the european institutions have authority in the eyes of taxpayers and voters. but for the court to be credible, it really has to be very scrupulous, because today the court says that we are happy that the glass is 95% full, but i think many taxpayers will ask: but why is 5% empty? especially since it's widely believed that it's empty to a greater extent than just 5%. i agree with one conclusion: control at european level is perhaps sometimes more detailed than in the member states, and i call on the court to do more control in the member states where this money often simply leaks out.
ladies and gentlemen! i think that when we are discussing the report, we have to be quite precise in what we say, because very often we are talking here at the same time about errors, about irregularities, or about fraud. the report makes it very clear that the level of errors found in cohesion policy has generally decreased. it's about five percent off the scale, so we can't talk about 20 percent, 30 percent, 40 percent off the scale, because that just clouds the whole picture. this is a clear improvement in this policy, which is undoubtedly very complicated because it is based on joint management with the member states. the problem for all of us is how to improve this policy, which is simply very demanding in its structure, very complex, but has enormous added value. this is to be welcomed and it is to be said that the situation is changing. however, i would like to draw attention to a disturbing passage in the report, and i quote: 'in view of the above, the court finds that it is not possible to make a meaningful comparison between its own estimates of error rates and the data provided by the commission on corrections'. this statement seems to be very important, relevant for the future, so that there is no situation where the court declares that it is unable to agree with the commission on the results. this case requires more work and explanation.
madam president! the presentation of the european court of auditors' research results always provides excellent insights to compare what has been done in the past and what needs to be done in the future. what is the general conclusion? it seems that where the procedures are less complicated, the money is more easily spent, there are fewer significant errors. the more complex the policies, the greater the number of errors and sometimes irregularities. the cohesion policy, for example, is also very important for the european union. it was therefore concluded that the cap has a high error rate, but where the procedures for using the funds are simplified, there are fewer errors than where it is more complex. i would like to draw attention to the importance of cooperation with the national audit bodies, but also, as has not been mentioned, to the importance of cooperation with the national parliaments, in particular with the european union committees, the budget committees and the budgetary control committees. i was in parliament at the time when we introduced this information to the european court of auditors, and it was received very well by the members of the national parliaments.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i will support any proposal to increase eu funding to support energy projects. it is also worth supporting the so-called green energy. but let's be honest: the idea that green energy is the solution to all europe's energy problems is often an illusion. the community, on the other hand, needs large, i stress large, investments. the basis of these is to ensure diversification of fuel supplies. this can be achieved by building the nabucco pipeline, which links the huge gas fields of central asia to european customers, by expanding transmission networks and by building new interconnectors in central and eastern europe. we want to develop green energy, but at the same time we are completely ignoring the development of shale gas extraction techniques and not allocating the necessary resources. it's an unconventional gas that's already playing a huge role in the extraction of gas in the united states and giving america complete independence in terms of access to gas. large quantities of this gas are found in france, poland and bulgaria. and what you see here is a complete passivity to the possibility of exploiting this great potential. european solidarity requires that the union should support these projects as being strategic for its future and guaranteeing the equitable development of all european countries. it is a pity that we are not talking today about large investments that will really solve energy problems, that will bring the european community together and develop it, and that we are talking about important measures relating to green energy.
madam president! we are debating an absolutely fundamental issue at the moment, not only in terms of economic issues, but in terms of the wider issue of european solidarity, because when it comes to energy, this is really the biggest challenge and the biggest test of whether this european solidarity can work in practice, whether it will be only at the level of a slogan, a slogan, or also what european taxpayers and voters certainly care about will be implemented in concrete projects that will build european unity, that will show that in europe individual countries help each other, build joint projects and reject situations in which some countries outside the european union get along with other countries over the heads of the european union. i think it's time to say it very clearly and directly.
in response to the financial crisis, the european commission proposed in january 2009 to allocate €5 billion of the european union's unspent funds mainly to support energy projects that would contribute to economic recovery in the european union. the proposed european energy agenda should be welcomed. i consider that the priority issues in this project are to support cross-border projects for gas and electricity infrastructure, including interconnections, as well as projects for co2 capture and storage. at the same time, i believe that we should demand that projects on energy efficiency and renewable energy sources, which stimulate economic growth, create additional employment opportunities and help to combat climate change, be given additional consideration in the design. investment in such projects is most effective when implemented on the ground at municipal, regional and local level. local enterprises are labour intensive and contribute to the creation of a large number of new jobs.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm very glad that we're dealing with the situation in the livestock sector, because the situation is serious. i would like to draw attention to the problem to which paragraph 15 of the motion for a resolution refers, namely the problem of animal welfare. animal welfare standards should be enforced and improved. i am very much in favour of the best possible living conditions for animals on farms. on the other hand, animal welfare comes at a cost, and the cost is borne by the farmers, and the problem is unfair competition, which means that meat products are imported into europe from markets in third countries that do not respect any animal welfare standards. and that has to change. we should introduce these standards in our country, but also insist on high standards - the same as those in the union - for all who export their meat and animal products to the european market.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. the situation this year teaches us that an adequate level of cereal stocks is essential to ensure food security and market stability. this security should be guaranteed by appropriate decisions at union level. the search for new sources of protein is also very important - a very good way to make european agriculture independent. so we need to promote protein-rich crops. but let us remember that it is our absolute duty to ensure that farmers have constant access to feed. i therefore support the motion for a resolution calling on the european commission to establish a minimum threshold for the acceptable content of unauthorised gm varieties in soybean supplies. continuing with the zero tolerance policy is a threat to the entire food production chain.
mr. chairman, please! alternative investment funds are of great importance to the union economy. managers of these funds must comply with the rules and standards that allow the provision of services in the territory of the member states and financial market supervision must be accurate and effective. to this end, we need to eliminate any inaccuracies in the legal and administrative systems of the institutions responsible for this. the proposals improve the transparency and efficiency of supervisory systems, and greater regulatory effectiveness will result in improved stability and credibility of financial institutions and, as a result, the european economy.
mr. chairman, please! the innovation union is a key project for the future of europe. in poznań, greater poland, where i live, the regional authorities have been organising 'world innovation days' for several years. this is a very valuable initiative, because it is the right coordination at regional, national and european level that can make this project a success. that is why i supported the resolution on the european innovation partnership and i think we should all be involved in innovation because, as i said, it is very important for the future.
mr. chairman, please! the demographic changes that have taken place in the european union over the past few decades have highlighted the need to reform the social welfare and pension systems and to develop an effective migration policy. the encouragement of early retirement has become a common practice, which has led to a decline in the employment rate of people aged 55-64. at the same time, the highest youth unemployment rate of any age group is a pressing problem. therefore, efforts should be made to both integrate and retain a workforce of different ages. a more open migration policy, combined with effective assimilation and integration, could also mitigate the effects of insufficient natural growth. of course i voted yes.
mr. chairman, please! i voted in favour of the report by mr thomas mann on the demographic challenges and solidarity between generations. it's a very good report, and the case itself is extremely important. one of the key issues is the prohibition of age discrimination in access to goods and services. if we are talking about solidarity, we should always bear in mind this particular aspect of solidarity, namely solidarity between generations. older persons may not be discriminated against on the grounds of their age. they have the full rights of members of the local, regional, national and european communities. the european union is concerned about young people, and young people are one of the priorities of next year's budget, for example. this is good, because young people will decide the future of the union, but we should also remember those who have already made a major contribution to the construction of europe.
mr. chairman, please! investment in education as a form of investment in human capital and innovation that contributes to the creation of modern solutions and technologies is fundamental to europe's economic development. to invest in innovation, the focus should be on funding research. the framework programmes discussed here are the world's largest international research programmes. by funding this type of research, europe has the chance to improve its global competitiveness, create thousands of jobs and improve the quality of life for all europeans. in order to maintain the highest standards in the framework programmes, the rapporteur advocates the minimisation of red tape and the simplification of administrative procedures. and that would translate into easier access to funding for this research in the european union, and that's the point. of course i voted yes.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, today's vote is an important step forward in the area of alternative investment fund regulation. these include, in particular, improved transparency, stronger rules for the regulation of the financial sector and more effective regulation. i believe that at a time when all countries are facing financial difficulties, alternative investments, if properly understood and used, can make a positive contribution to the functioning and improvement of the economy.
in writing. - taiwan has gone through a lot of changes in the last decades. institutional reforms, the dynamism of civil society, and respect for civil liberties and rights have contributed to political stability in taiwan. at the same time, the country is active in many fields in the international arena, including helping victims of natural disasters. taiwan is currently experiencing high economic growth and low unemployment. since the 1950s, it has undergone many successful reforms. politically, taiwan has been in the process of profound democratization. the changes of the 1980s led to the first democratic elections in 1996. the eu and taiwan have extensive economic and trade relations. the eu is the main foreign investor in taiwan. it is the eu's fourth largest asian trading partner. there is also cooperation in the fields of scientific research and education, culture and the environment. the proportion of illegal immigrants from taiwan in the eu is very low. citizens of most eu member states except cyprus, romania and bulgaria do not need a visa to enter taiwan. in the near future, citizens of the member states will also be granted visa-free travel. i am convinced that the abolition of visas for taiwanese nationals will contribute to further boosting trade relations and relations in the fields of research, education, culture and the environment and to increasing tourism between the eu and taiwan.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the results of today's vote on the draft resolution on the partnership for innovation. i think that in working on the document, we have managed to develop a clear and ambitious position. the idea of an 'innovation union' is a very important one and is currently the most concrete attempt to pursue an integrated european innovation policy. i would like to stress that it is important that we have taken the europe 2020 strategy into account in our work, because this is linked to a greater focus on research, innovation and education in the future.
in writing. − in the current post-crisis era, facing the new challenges facing the eu in the years after 2013, innovation is one of the most important, if not the most important, way to strengthen the eu in the world. innovative use of resources may be one of the best ways of equalising levels between countries or regions. it will also contribute to the preservation of the diversity of the area by drawing on the good practices and experiences of other actors. the development of new types of production or services and innovative uses of resources lead to the rational and effective development of local, regional and national markets. innovation is human creativity. by seeking innovative solutions, we contribute to the increase of the benefits to society. in an age of rapidly growing economies, technology, information technology, we cannot forget the most important element, which is human capital. innovation is not just about new production methods or innovative uses of, for example, local products. it's also, and above all, human potential. new ways of involving communities in development processes at many levels of life are a prerequisite. cooperation at different levels of society is slowly becoming a necessity, especially in the fields of research and education. partnerships for innovation are another obvious step in a developing europe.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i would like to point out that i voted in favour of the thomas mann report on the demographic challenges and solidarity between generations because i believe that one of the major problems facing the european union today is the issue of ageing populations in the member states. this is a challenge that the european union can meet if conditions are created to promote motherhood, if better ways are found to reconcile work and family life, and if the opportunities of a more productive life are exploited. the year 2012 will be the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations, and i believe that we meps must promote active ageing policies and pay attention to the new demographic challenges.
in writing. − the fact is that europe as a whole is facing demographic changes such as an ageing population, low birth rates, migration from poorer to richer countries, increasing life expectancy, delayed age of entry into the labour market, increasing number of one-person or childless households, etc. all of this adds up to a huge need for change, which is posed by new demographic challenges and the increasing role of generational integration. this implies the need to introduce a well-designed 'generational accounting' system, reform the social and tax systems in europe, including pension systems, guarantee adequate care for the older generation and avoid the build-up of debt by the younger generation. therefore, a reform of the stability and growth pact is necessary to enable member states to meet their commitment to make their pension systems more sustainable.
in writing. − i supported the report on simplification in the implementation of the research framework programmes. without simplifying the administrative formalities in the field of tendering and implementation procedures, the participation of the private sector in the framework programmes will not increase. given the key evaluation criterion of industry-science cooperation, projects without partners from the sme sector have little chance of being implemented. in addition, one of the most frequently encountered problems is the selection of foreign partners for projects. here, more assistance from the commission is still needed. the most important barrier to building an innovative economy is the lack of knowledge or fear of the 7th framework programme. the complexity of the procedures means that many institutions focus primarily on raising funds from the structural funds. the results of the polish teams so far (according to the ccp's assessment based on data from the european commission) are unsatisfactory. the success rate for the participation of polish entities is 18,56% and for the grant of 13,72%, compared to the eu average of 22,28% and 20,56% respectively. this is a great loss for polish science, which has a huge research potential and excellent scientific staff. we need to make better use of the opportunity that pr 7 is giving us. simplifying its implementation will help to increase the innovation and competitiveness of the union economy in the global economy.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 11 november 2010.
i welcome the news that aung san suu kyi, the leader of the burmese opposition, has been released from house arrest. ms suu kyi is one of the first winners of the european parliament's sakharov prize, which has been awarded since 1988. unfortunately, 20 years ago, she couldn't have picked it up herself. i would like to inform you that i have already extended an invitation to ms suu kyi to visit the european parliament and to speak at one of our plenary sessions. november 25th marks the 11th anniversary of the un's international day for the elimination of violence against women, which was established in 1994. every day, women around the world are victims of rape, humiliation and domestic violence. particularly cruel is the circumcision of young women in many parts of the world. it is estimated that 8,000 girls are killed by him every day. as we unite in a campaign to stop this barbaric ritual, i urge all of you to wear a rose today to symbolize our opposition to these practices. i would also like to stress that the european parliament has been making efforts and appeals for the total elimination of physical and psychological violence against women for many years.
the competent authorities of spain have informed me that mr ramón jáuregui atondo has been replaced by ms maria irigoyen pérez with effect from 16 november 2010. i welcome my new colleague and remind her that, under rule 3 (2) of parliament's rules of procedure, until her mandate is reviewed or a decision is taken on a possible dispute, mrs maria irigoyen pérez is entitled to participate in the meetings of parliament and its bodies, retaining all the rights attached to that participation, provided that she has previously declared that she does not hold any post incompatible with the exercise of her mandate as a member of the european parliament.
i hereby inform you that mr claudiu ciprian tănăsescu has joined the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats in the european parliament with effect from 15 november 2010. i also inform you that mr pino arlacchi has joined the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats in the european parliament with effect from 18 november 2010.
i hereby announce that on wednesday the president of the council and i will sign 14 acts adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure, in accordance with rule 74 of parliament's rules of procedure. the titles of these acts shall be published in the minutes of this meeting. they are available to you. you can check them out anytime.
the final draft agenda drawn up in accordance with rule 137 of the rules of procedure was distributed by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 18 november 2010. the following changes are proposed: monday:the political groups propose that the debate on mr berlinguer's report on the civil law, commercial law, family law and private international law aspects of the action plan for the implementation of the stockholm programme be removed from the agenda. in this case, the report would be put directly to the vote tomorrow, tuesday. so the report stays. it will be put to a vote, but not a debate. i repeat: all the political groups have confirmed their agreement to this solution and it is thus adopted. (parliament adopted the proposal) tuesday: unchanged
i know the case and i know what the dutch press has written. however, i want to assure you that the vote on the launch of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the netherlands will take place as scheduled, tomorrow. nothing has changed. the vote is tomorrow. wednesday: i have received a request from the confederation group of the european united left - nordic green left for a debate on the situation in western sahara, that the vote on draft resolutions on this issue be held during this session and not during the december session, as is currently planned.
the motion was supported by a majority, so according to mr. ferreira's proposal, the vote will be this week. (parliament adopted the proposal) i give you the dates: the vote will take place on thursday. the deadlines are as follows: draft resolutions must be tabled by noon tomorrow, 23 november; amendments and joint draft resolutions by noon wednesday 24 november; amendments to joint draft resolutions by 1 p.m. wednesday 24 november, one hour later. i repeat, the vote will be held on thursday.
thank you, mate. this may also be reported to the conference of presidents. as chairman of the group, mr cohn-bendit can report this at any time. thank you for that. thursday:no change ((the agenda has been set)
the next item is the joint debate on the following: - report by mr burkhard balz on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the ecb's annual report for 2009 (2010/2078 (ini)) (a7-0314/2010) and - statement by the commission on recent developments in international exchange rates (2010/2914 (rsp)).
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? i would like to begin by thanking all those who have contributed to this report: the european commission, all the shadow rapporteurs and the members of the committee on fisheries for their support. we reached a full agreement, as the report was voted unanimously in the european parliament's committee on fisheries. i want to thank you again for this very much. this report, which aims to regulate the issue of flatfish in the baltic sea and to end the use of discards in the total allowable catch (tac) fisheries management model, shows that the system is working well and has practical applications for certain fish species. therefore, the importance of the introduction of article 15a into regulation 2187/2005 should be underlined. by-catch species may have a low market value, may be completely unfit for human consumption. it should also be noted that this provision allows the removal from the vessel of live eels caught which do not represent any commercial value during the period of protection. therefore, this article allows the sustainable exploitation of living water resources. the action plan adopted on the basis of my report must eliminate discards in the baltic sea, including, where appropriate, a total ban on discards in the baltic sea fisheries. it must lead to sustainable and more efficient management of marine resources. a total discard ban for herring or other flounder is not justified as it would have a negative impact on the state of their stocks. in order to ensure the stability and predictability of fishing and the exploitation of fish stocks within the limits established, it is of concern that the introduction of the discard ban could be used to legalise the mass fishing of undersized cod in the baltic sea in industrial fisheries. in the absence of reliable scientific data to assess cod by-catches in forage fisheries, it is necessary to introduce immediately fully documented catches and full monitoring on board vessels engaged in such catches. it is necessary to introduce 100% controls of industrial fisheries at landing. otherwise, the baltic conservation policy is simply unrealistic and the long-term cod management plan is pointless. the union must immediately address the issue of industrial fishing in the baltic sea through the common fisheries policy, given that these fisheries are ecologically dangerous for the baltic ecosystem, especially since the baltic sea has the status of a particularly sensitive marine area granted by the marine environment protection committee of the international maritime organisation and is therefore one of the most valuable and vulnerable marine ecosystems on our planet. in view of the climate change occurring in the baltic sea, which is causing changes in the adaptation of various fish species and consequently their movement and their breeding sites, it is necessary to revise the protection areas in the baltic sea and to establish a long-term management plan for flatfish species in that water. in the absence of reliable and up-to-date data on the basis of which certain areas of the baltic sea are excluded from protection, it is necessary to take into account the changes that have taken place and to revise the protection areas.
mr. chairman, please! first of all, i'd like to thank my colleague, tombo-boy, for his cooperation. i am very pleased that the report has managed to include a very important point, which calls on the commission to prepare a comprehensive management plan for plaice in the baltic sea. i would also like to draw the attention of the commissioner to the fact that the polish fisheries administration has been proposing for many years to adopt a comprehensive system for the management of flatfish stocks in the baltic, without obtaining any concrete results from the european commission. it is necessary to develop a uniform management system for flatfish throughout the entire area of their occurrence. they are of great economic importance to baltic fishermen, including polish fishermen, and therefore deserve more attention than ever from the european institutions responsible for fisheries.
the rapporteur. - i would like to thank once again all the shadow rapporteurs, especially those present - ms ulrice rodust, mr kuhn and mr ferreira, also for the warm and kind words on my report, mr kuhn, mr alainowo cadec. thank you very much! i also hope that this report will be a continuation of the solutions adopted and, above all, a start to work on regionalisation. regionalization is the goal and the objective of the common fisheries policy. it is the de facto condition for the success of the future common fisheries policy.
member of the commission. − madam president, mr potočnik, the commissioner responsible for this file, is here with me, but unfortunately he has to remain silent because of a problem with his throat. i know that he has been working on this file for a long time, so i will do my best to be his voice. we stand on the threshold of a first-reading agreement on the recast of the directive on the restriction of hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment – the rohs agreement. we would not have reached this point if it were not for the hard work of the european parliament on this important dossier. i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, jillian evans, as well as the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, for the excellent work carried out on this proposal. rohs has a successful piece of legislation since it was adopted in 2003. it has prevented thousands of tonnes of banned substances from being thrown away and potentially released into the environment. it has brought about important changes in the design of electronic products in the european union and worldwide. other countries, including the eu’s major trading partners, have followed the eu’s example and brought in similar legislation. we use enormous and increasing amounts of electronic equipment, which contain a lot of metal resources. a computer, for example, contains over 60 raw materials. on average, each eu citizen produces 25 kg of electronic waste every year. this law will ensure that electronic products are freed from many hazardous substances and will make this large waste stream easier to recycle. this law therefore also helps make the eu more resource-efficient, in line with our europe 2020 strategy. however, industry and member states alike have reported the risk of inadequate or inefficient implementation and enforcement of the directive. the status quo is insufficient, not only in terms of protection of the environment, but also in terms of creating a level playing field within the eu. therefore it is important that this law be clarified and streamlined. the key element for the commission is to ensure alignment with reach, but real environmental benefits only arise when a law is properly implemented and enforced at national level. i hope that the introduction of the common definitions and assessment tools of the new legislative framework for the marketing of products in this law will significantly improve this. in addition, the directive’s environmental ambition is improved through the extension of the product coverage, first by the two new categories – medical devices and monitoring and control instruments – and, in eight years, to all electronic products. further extensions to the scope of this law will further increase the environmental benefits, but economic operators should of course have sufficient time to adapt, and all scope changes should be based on solid information. the commission will therefore review the scope changes as regards the current law, which have not yet been subject to impact assessments. the commission would therefore like to clarify the issue by making two statements. first, on the scope, the commission interprets that it follows from article 2(1a) that during the transitional period of eight years, member states are obliged to allow electrical and electronic equipment that was outside the scope of directive 2002/95/ec, but which would be covered by the new directive, to continue to be made available on their market. second, concerning the review pursuant to article 19, the commission intends to undertake, no later than three years after the entry into force of this directive, an impact assessment focusing on the changes in scope. this review may result in the commission making a legislative proposal in line with its right of legislative initiative in the treaties. we would also like to make the following declarations as regards nanomaterials. we note that work towards a common definition on nanomaterials is still ongoing within the commission. we intend to adopt a recommendation on such a common definition for all legislative sectors in the near future. the commission considers that the rohs provision covered different forms, including nanoforms, of the substances which are currently banned, and those which in the future will be subject to a priority review under rohs. finally, the commission also regrets the lack of support for the provision, including in the commission proposal, making the establishment of correlation tables obligatory. the commission accepted the substitution of the obligatory provision by a recital encouraging member states to follow this practice in order to facilitate a first-reading agreement, but it states that this should not be seen to be a precedent. we will continue to work with the co-legislators in an effort to find a horizontal solution to this horizontal institutional issue. the commission can accept the compromise package in order to reach an agreement on this directive at first reading. i would encourage parliament to adopt the same position.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, jill evans, for her very good work on the report. without her commitment and determination, a compromise between the political groups and the institutions at the first reading would not have been possible. the rohs directive is one of those pieces of legislation that brings together the environment and sustainable development and the free movement of goods. its environmental work to date has led to a spectacular reduction in heavy metals in the waste electrical and electronic equipment stream and the emergence of innovative technologies. our priority in the rohs review was to raise safety standards for electrical and electronic devices sold in the european union. the new rules will oblige all manufacturers of electrical and electronic equipment to use tested and safe substances for health and the environment. the open scope of the directive will have a positive impact on the harmonisation of the common internal market, the movement of goods and will provide legal certainty for european businesses. i think the compromise that's been negotiated is a good one, and it's good for the environment and for the elimination of toxic substances in equipment and waste. on the other hand, the amended rohs directive gives industry and businesses the necessary time horizon to make the necessary changes and adaptations. the proposed reach-based methodology for the designation of priority substances also brings legal coherence and consistency to the european union legislation.
madam president! i would like to draw attention to the insufficient public consultation on the directive on orphan works by the european commission. orphan works are works for which the copyright owners cannot be identified. i organized a debate in parliament last week on this subject. it has shown how much interest there is in this area, how many questions there are about the draft directive on which the commission is currently working. so far, the trial is shrouded in mystery. after all, experts and stakeholders should at least know where the work is going. about 40% of our european artistic output suffers from this orphaning. the date of publication of the directive has been moved to the first quarter of next year, so there is still some time for consultation, and we need to involve our citizens, including the expert community, more in the drafting of the law, so that it is really the best possible.
in writing. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. civil-military cooperation and civil-military capacity building are among the most important components of the common security and defence policy. unfortunately, many aspects of this are still in the planning stages. in their discussion, member states agree to allocate significant resources to them. in fact, the plans have not been implemented and we have no structures in place. in the face of the growing threat of natural disasters, terrorist acts and conflicts outside the eu, i hope that this report will help to unlock the potential of civil-military cooperation. the report makes specific recommendations in this regard. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) in respect of the financing of the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) in the form of global loans for the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and the european investment bank (eib) in the form of global loans for the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). all of this is to make better use of the resources available so that civilian-military cooperation can be fully realized. it is also important to avoid duplication of effort in missions involving nato in addition to european forces. i hope that this report will be a significant stimulus to start work on creating effective civil-military structures. the hr should ensure that the suggestions contained in the report are implemented as soon as possible.
i'll start with some very sad news about the floods in europe. europe has been hit by another flood disaster this year. recently, belgium, france, the netherlands and northern italy have been affected central italy is currently flooded south-west england, as well as several other countries. perhaps you will take the opportunity to speak, which i will give you in a moment, to give examples of other terrible floods in europe. there were casualties and millions of dollars in property damage. the european union solidarity fund was set up eight years ago to help countries affected by natural disasters. so far, the funds raised have been used in 33 major disasters. we join in our grief today with the families of the victims and those whose lives and work were lost in the flood. we know that these are terrible, individual events in every person's life.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the statements by the council and the european commission on the 10th anniversary of the adoption of un security council resolution 1325 on women, peace and security. i welcome the representative of the council and the representative of the commission to the chamber.
in writing. over the years, the traditional role of peacekeeping missions has changed. it's no longer just about monitoring ceasefires or enforcing borders between countries. today, missions are engaged in a range of 'soft' activities - broadly speaking, promoting human rights and democracy, supporting the organisation of elections, and restoring the rule of law. on the occasion of the 10th anniversary of the adoption of resolution 1325, it is worth noting the special role of women in these processes. in many cases, they are much more likely to be peacekeepers. i mean, among other things, working with victims of sexual violence or gender discrimination. women work in women's prisons, assist in reintegration into society, or provide numerous training courses. we talk a lot about increasing the participation of women in politics and business. in none of these areas has full equality of opportunity been achieved. it is therefore necessary to return to these issues, to keep a close eye on the implementation of the provisions adopted, so that on the 15th or 20th anniversary of the adoption of resolution 1325, it can be considered that all its provisions have been implemented.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the draft presented by the european commission is clearly written under the dictates of climate policy without taking into account the social consequences, and in particular the energy consequences, in countries such as germany, spain or poland. we have to remember that the global coal market is changing before our eyes. the demand for coal and its prices are rising. so mines that are unprofitable today may be profitable in the future. the move away from coal also poses very serious problems for energy security in countries like poland, which generates as much as 95% of its electricity from coal. the only alternative to moving away from coal in such situations is to become even more dependent on gas, which is imported from only one direction. so before we decide to put political pressure on the coal industry to move away from coal in these cases, we should ensure diversification, and also security of gas supply, because it is the only viable alternative for the energy sector in countries that use coal for this purpose today. these are the reasons why we support the compromise tabled by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on industry, research and energy, where we proposed that the regulation should allow national budgets - not eu ones, after all - to maintain mines in countries where this is necessary, and the compromise which suggests that the regulation should be in force until 2030. the european commission's original proposals seem to have been much closer to this position. it was only at the last stage that the european commission decided to propose this unrealistic deadline of 2014.
madam president! given the specificity of the regulation we are debating today, let us not forget that there are member states in the european union that rely mainly on coal for their energy production. therefore, the proposed changes during the preparation of the regulation must be carried out at a pace that is adapted to the absorption capacity of citizens and social structures. i welcome the compromise we've worked out. in view of the role of coal in ensuring energy security, it is necessary to stabilise its extraction at the desired level. coal as a fuel in the energy mix will continue to be key to the energy sector, stabilising europe's energy security. i hope that the council shares our concerns and heeds the elaborate voice of the european parliament.
in writing. the european commission is seeking to limit coal extraction at all costs, without any economic justification. this is an effort artificially stimulated by the cost of coal-fired power plants. it's about the cost of the emissions. it's a policy of undermining the economic foundations of those countries where coal-fired power is dominant. this strategy shows that: - there is no understanding of a coherent raw materials and energy policy that favours economic efficiency but also competitiveness; - there is no coherent energy policy that guarantees the security of energy supply; - there is no regulation based on uniform criteria for the whole common market that would lead to fair competition while keeping social costs to a minimum. today we have a brutal violation of those rules. the question is: what kind of industry does the union need - eu or transnational, corporate, tax haven? the raw materials and energy industries require long-term investment and capital concentration, which means they require subsidies. and they don't have to be profitable. cheap energy and raw materials are the basis for the competitiveness of manufacturing, including machinery. the profitability is therefore 'per balance'. i would point out that the economic problems of the union in the midst of the crisis are not only the result of unfair global financial speculation but also the lack of a wise, uniform and fair industrial policy within the union itself, especially in the area of raw materials and energy.
mr. president, i have to go. ladies and gentlemen of the house! dear guests and friends! i would like to welcome the president of georgia, mr mikheil saakashvili. (laughter) (applause) mr president, this is not your first visit to the european parliament. he was with us four years ago, he was also in brussels in 2004 right after he was elected president of georgia. today is a special day - today, november 23, marks the seventh anniversary of the rose revolution - a bloodless revolution that changed the situation not only in georgia but in the entire south caucasus region. mr president, the european union has been moving for almost 60 years in the direction now also chosen by georgia - towards lasting peace, prosperity and unchallenged freedom. president saakashvili was educated first in kiev, then studied at european and american universities and was also associated with strasbourg, where he studied, received honors and also, as far as i know, met his future wife. so this is a special place for the president. the last seven years have not been easy for georgia. the territorial integrity of georgia has been violated. i would like to remind you that in may of this year we adopted a resolution calling on russia to respect the terms of the ceasefire and to withdraw its troops from the territory of georgia. (applause) mr president, four years ago in this very room, you said that georgia is not only one of the oldest european nations, but also one that is very interested in european integration. they feel that this is the kind of approach to international affairs that they prefer. i believe that today this enthusiasm is no less than it was four years ago; we here in the european parliament, in the european union, attach great importance to democratization. standards of democratization and democracy are very high, standards of free markets are also very high; human rights, the rule of law, freedom of the media -- all of these require reforms, reforms of the constitutional system, electoral law, the justice system. i have just spoken to the president of georgia about these matters and we agreed that this is not an easy process, but it is necessary if we are to be similar and easier to work with. i am also glad that georgia has quickly overcome its economic crisis. the european union was also involved, and we extended a helping hand. today, georgia is once again experiencing rapid economic growth. we in the european union want georgia to be stable, to develop well, but we also want the whole south caucasus region to be stable. georgia can be a perfect model for the transition to a democratic, free market system, full protection of human rights and the rule of law. that's why it's so important what the president has to offer us today, what he has to say. we are pleased to have you here and we ask you to speak. please, mr. president. (laughter) (applause)
president of georgia. − mr president, i am humbled by the immense honour that your invitation signifies for my country, and i would like to thank you and all the political groups for this exceptional opportunity. mr president, as we noted in our preliminary discussions, i was last here four years ago, so it is like the olympic games. i have come back four years later. hopefully, i will perform better this time than last time. i came here to deliver a message of hope and to make a solemn pledge. i came here to affirm that peace – a just and lasting peace – is possible in my region, and that we need europe to contribute to it. for centuries, the caucasian mountains have been a geopolitical mystery and a beguiling paradox: a region where individuals and souls were free, but where citizens were oppressed; where cultures were tolerant, but where governments created artificial divisions; where people never cease to feel deeply european, but where walls erected by empires turned europe into a faraway mirage; where men and women were striving for peace, but wars seemed unavoidable. i came here to tell you that we must put an end to those times, that cooperation must replace rivalry and that negotiations must prevail over the rhetoric of war. in all the troubled corners of our world, the european parliament is a symbol of hope. it is striking proof that even the cruellest of conflicts can be overcome and that peace is worth any political risk. this very place would not exist if, in the middle of ruins, surrounded by death and legitimate claims for revenge, brave leaders did not choose to end centuries of wars by launching the most ambitious and fascinating political experiment of our time: european unification. this parliament which is divided not by nationality, but into political groups – fulfils the vision so eloquently expressed by victor hugo at the 1849 international peace congress in paris. allow me to quote the great poet in his own language: un jour viendra où vous toutes, nations du continent, sans perdre vos qualités distinctes et votre glorieuse individualité, vous vous fondrez étroitement dans une unité supérieure, et vous constituerez la fraternité européenne. un jour viendra où il n'y aura plus d'autres champs de bataille que les marchés s'ouvrant au commerce et les esprits s'ouvrant aux idées. un jour viendra où les boulets et les bombes seront remplacés par les votes, par le suffrage universel des peuples, par le vénérable arbitrage d'un grand sénat souverain qui sera à l'europe ce que le parlement est à l'angleterre, ce que la diète est à l'allemagne, ce que l'assemblée législative est à la france. most of hugo’s contemporaries thought he was an infantile dreamer, even when he gave this speech. it took more than a hundred years and two world wars for history to hear his voice. ladies and gentlemen, it is time for hugo’s voice to be echoed and heard in my region as well. it is high time for this voice of brotherhood to overcome the sounds of cannons and calls of hatred. it is high time for the european peace to be extended to the caucasus. (applause)and it is our responsibility, as political leaders, to conceive bold initiatives in order to make this happen. ladies and gentlemen, exactly seven years ago the rose revolution initiated a new journey towards the european family of an old nation, my beloved georgia. on 23 november 2003 hundreds of thousands of citizens of all regional, religious and social backgrounds peacefully took over the streets and the parliament. not a single window was broken and not a single thing was stolen from the building. they did more than overthrow a corrupt, backward-looking regime. they triggered what economists in london some weeks ago called a mental revolution. as some of you in this assembly know well, there have been two ways of getting out from communist regimes after the liberating collapse of the ussr – the european one and the nationalistic one: the rule of law and the rule of fear. to sum up: václav havel and slobodan milošević. once the tyranny of the party was over, the divisions, the corruption, the verticality, the bureaucracy, the cynicism and the authoritarianism that were the pillars of soviet society remained intact. seven years ago georgia was formally an independent state, but it was still part of this world of fear and hatred. the borders of the soviet mentality were not abolished, and the soviet union still existed in the minds and the souls of the people. only a mental revolution could lead to the european transformation of our societies. this is the message that we georgians brought to this region. this is the message that unleashed so much anger towards us among those nostalgic for the empire, but this is the message that turned georgia into a laboratory of reforms for our region. when we led the rose revolution we were members of student organisations, opposition parties and civil society groups, all united by a single dream: to turn a dysfunctional post-soviet country crippled beyond imagining by corruption and crime into a european democracy. ladies and gentlemen, the soviet union was based on the principle of the right to rule. people were artificially opposed to each other at every level of society and in every field. in every republic the different religious, social and ethnic groups were made to be constant rivals, and politics was understood as an art of manipulation, fear and hatred. this explains why former communist leaders turned so easily into nationalists – in the balkans as well as in the caucasus, in eastern europe as well as in russia. seven years ago georgia was still divided into isolated communities which feared each other. some extremists were using the weakness of the state to reject minorities. our first task was therefore to embrace multiculturalism and differences. we have developed an affirmative action programme in all spheres, from higher education to law enforcement bodies. the soviet union had another characteristic – absolute centralisation. seven years ago, georgia was still centred completely on its capital, and we initiated a vast decentralisation programme, invested in regional development infrastructures and spectacularly empowered local authorities. as a result, regions that were once abandoned became the most striking examples of our development. until the rose revolution, all key regional principles were appointed by the president, so while others were restoring the famous vertical power cancelling the autonomy of all the regions, we systematically transferred power to regionally elected bodies. this policy has recently led to the first direct election of the mayor of the capital tbilisi – last may – and the decision to move the constitutional court to the city of batumi and the parliament to georgia’s second-biggest city – kutaisi – in the centre of georgia. the soviet union was all about control and corruption – an overweight and inefficient state. our first step was therefore to dissolve the kgb and fire the entire police force...(applause)... as well as customs officers and tax agents, but also to open our economy and our educational system. the vision that guided all these steps was captured by a single symbol. beside every georgian flag in every official building we installed a european flag. we did this to show where we were aiming to take georgia with our reforms. of course our peaceful revolution has had its share of failures and shortcomings. of course we have made mistakes but, as the great inventor of european cosmopolitanism and one of my favourite philosophers, immanuel kant, wrote about the french revolution, ‘you cannot be ready to be free until you are actually free’. what immanuel kant meant, ladies and gentlemen, is that no book can teach you in advance how to govern – or even behave – in freedom. you can only learn this from your own successes and failures. we have had failures and we have learnt from them, but we have also had surprising successes. georgia has just been singled out by the world bank as the number one economic reformer in the world over the last five years and now ranks twelfth in the world and number one in central and eastern europe – and certainly in the post-soviet world – for ease of doing business. once the epicentre of the post-soviet mafia, georgia made more progress against corruption than any other country in the world from 2004 to 2009, according to the ebrd and transparency international. indeed, on the ti listing, georgia went up about 70 places and, by coincidence, around that time russia went down about 70 places. we met in the middle and i do not remember them saying hello, but that is what happened. i value these rankings only because they reflect and rebuild the social and moral transformation that happened in my country – the mental revolution to which i referred earlier. georgian citizens have stopped thinking of their state and country as a post-soviet state. they see it, judge it and criticise it as a european democracy. such a change goes far beyond the leaders and parties that led the rose revolution. it is something that nobody owns and nobody can suppress, neither us nor anybody else. such a revolution leads to this amazing fact in our part of the world: that institutions are systematically more popular than political figures. we just had a huge police reform and, according to the last poll we took – a gallup poll – the police came out with an 86% confidence rating, a figure which used to be 5%. the same for the presidency, the same for parliament, the same for other institutions in the country: it was exactly the inverse of what happened previously. that really tells you that the institutions are more popular than the leaders and that the country is moving in the right direction. there is a great deal more to do. obviously we are more committed than ever to pursuing our paths of reform. we are aware that democracies are always a work in progress. of course our alternative democratic model was not welcomed by everybody. it met fierce opposition among those revisionist forces who still perceive the fall of the ussr as the worst catastrophe of the 20th century. they imposed a full-scale embargo on my nation in 2006. before that there was a full-scale energy embargo in 2005. they deported our citizens, repeatedly bombed our territory prior to 2008 and finally invaded in 2008. as i speak, these forces still occupy 20% of georgian territory, in blatant violation of international law and of the 12 august ceasefire agreement brokered thanks to the efforts of my good friend and great european leader, french president nicolas sarkozy, who was then president of the european union. as i speak, georgia still has up to 500 000 idps and refugees who cannot return home because some people, animated by an old imperialist mentality, decided to welcome the 21st century by organising ethnic cleansing campaigns and building a new berlin wall dividing my country. how did we respond to these aggressions? first, we fully implemented the ceasefire agreement and went beyond our obligations, without once using russia’s refusal to comply as a pretext. last august the head of the european union monitoring mission, hansjörg haber – a german – publicly praised georgian restraint and our engagement strategy as constructive unilateralism. when tanks and missiles are standing 50 km from a capital, it would be high time for many governments to cry that they are besieged, there is no time to have freedom and it is a luxury to have democracy – which they cannot afford – and start to crack down on their opposition and call for so-called unity of society. we did exactly the opposite. we are building, in these circumstances, democracy at gunpoint. in front of the iron curtain which the occupation forces have built around the region of abkhazia, in the small seaside town of anaklia, which was a violent no man’s land just a few years ago, a new tourist resort is being built as we speak, with beautiful hotels and sandy beaches. some suggest that we should stop and wait until the situation is resolved and only start building when the ground is more solid, less shaky and less dangerous. our philosophy is the complete opposite. we are constructing buildings not because they are on strong and solid ground but because by building them we will eventually make the ground stronger. in anaklia a new phase of development started in 2005 after it had already been destroyed twice by the conflict, in 1993 and 1998. in 2008 it once again witnessed total destruction. all the new buildings were burnt down by invading russian troops, including discos, cafés, youth hostels and other hotels. a few weeks later construction started again. a great poet and a famous russian dissident, alexandr galich one of those eight heroes who demonstrated on the red square in 1968, against the invasion of prague, was the author of this great phrase: отечество в опасности! наши танки на чужой земле!, which means that ‘the homeland is in danger, our tanks have invaded a foreign country’. he wrote another splendid line about georgia, which again i shall quote in russian: прекрасная и гордая страна! ты отвечаешь шуткой на злословье!, which translates roughly as ‘splendid and proud country, you respond to mud-slinging with a smile’. (applause) the last time i visited anaklia i saw a row of discotheques as lively as you can see anywhere in europe, where young people danced just as they would in ibiza or st tropez. the only difference was that the ‘18’ disco where we went was the last disco on the beach. exactly five metres from there is a wall beyond which the occupying army is stationed, and then there is almost 100 km of darkness and emptiness. let me ask you: what is more absurd than a new berlin wall on a sandy subtropical black sea beach? in short, we understand that peace is in our supreme interest, and we are convinced that there is no alternative to peace. by jeopardising peace we would place at risk everything we have achieved and everything we want to achieve in the coming years. i have come here to announce a new step in our policy of constructive unilateralism. i am here to take an initiative that i hope, with your help, will defuse the tensions and allow serious negotiations to start. before coming i reflected a lot. i also consulted with our friends – american and european allies and people in the region – and the georgian government already considers itself bound by the 12 august ceasefire agreement and has always understood that the ceasefire clearly prohibits the use of force. but in order to prove that georgia is definitely committed to a peaceful resolution of its conflict with the russian federation, we are today taking the unilateral initiative of declaring that georgia will never use force to roll back the russian occupation and to restore its control over the occupied areas. it will only resort to peaceful means in its quest for de-occupation and reunification. even if the russian federation refuses to withdraw its occupation forces, even if its proxy militias multiply their human rights violations, georgia will only retain the right to self-defence in the case of new attacks and invasion of the 80% of the georgian territory that remains under the control of the georgian government. i will address the relevant letters to the secretary-general of the un, the secretary-general of the osce and the leadership of the european union, stating clearly that we commit ourselves not to use force in order to restore control of all our illegally-divided country, neither against the occupation forces nor against their proxies – even though the un charter might allow us to do so. my pledge here before you constitutes a unilateral declaration of a state under international law. this initiative is far from easy for a country that is partially occupied and has 500 000 idps and refugees. it constitutes and expands our policy of constructive unilateralism. i am ready for deep, comprehensive dialogue with my russian counterpart. we will, of course, continue to participate in the geneva talks, hoping that our pledge today will persuade the russian federation to stop blocking these discussions. but we need political dialogue to start as well. for this to occur, the international community must make it clear to the russian leaders that the situation today is totally irregular and unsustainable. in order to push them to discuss a compromise, it is essential clearly to state the reality of the situation on the ground. this is why we are asking that the russian military build-up within the international borders of georgia be qualified as illegal occupation of a sovereign territory. many european nations, as well as the united states, have already done so. because if this is not a military occupation, then what is it? is it military tourism when you have tens of thousands of troops, missiles and tanks deployed illegally against you, and a part is removed from your populated territory? equally, the brutal campaigns that have expelled hundreds of thousands of georgian citizens from the occupied territories should be qualified as illegal acts of ethnic cleansing. if we fail to denounce this ethnic cleansing, why would the occupiers ever even consider allowing them to return back to their homes, towns and villages? ladies and gentlemen, if the first victim of war is always the truth, the truth is always the most solid foundation of peace. our constructive unilateralism and the pledge i have just made will not have the expected impact if our european friends do not speak out the truth. if you do not speak out the truth, then who will? i came here today humbly to tell you that, basically we – and maybe the whole region – depend on you. ladies and gentlemen, our region has known too many wars in recent history. it is time – to paraphrase hugo once again – to replace cannons with round tables. our region has had its own warsaw, its own coventry, its own oradour-sur-glane, and it is time to build on our common rejection of war and destruction. it is time to say that we must never have another grozny, a regional capital of 400 000 inhabitants that has been totally erased from the surface of the globe. it is time to say that we must never again see people expelled from their homes and deported on the basis of their nationality, faith or origin, as happened in my own country as well as in other countries in the region. i am ready to work with the russian leadership to ensure that this does not happen again and that the consequences of the war are reversed and conditions for peace established. walls like the one dividing georgia will not be brought down by bombs but by the commitment of citizens to build a free, united, democratic country and by the commitment of the world community to enforce international law, and this is the ambition we will never give up. we will never give up our ambition to reunite our country and establish it as a free democratic nation by peaceful means. it is noticeable that, despite the enormous pressure and multiple threats from moscow, not a single former soviet republic has recognised this dismemberment of georgia. it shows – to the great surprise and fury of some people – that the old times are definitely over. it shows that the former captive nations of soviet times have, with all the hurdles and problems, become strong independent states that determine their own policies. no one, in short, is going back to the ussr. ladies and gentlemen, our region has made a choice. a war has been launched to stop this movement, but tanks cannot reverse the sense of history, and it is time for the long and dolorous hangover of imperialism to end peacefully. i call, therefore, on the russian leaders to make the choice of the future. they could play such a major positive role in the ongoing transformation of our common region, accepting other countries as partners and not as vassals. we all want – and i personally want – russia as a partner and not as an enemy. nobody has a greater interest than us in seeing russia turn into a country that truly operates within the concert of nations, respects international law, and – this is often connected – upholds basic human rights. this is why i wholeheartedly support the efforts of european and american leaders to engage russia in a more constructive relationship. our conflict has done nothing to harden feelings between our two peoples; i want to tell the russian people that they will always be welcome in georgia as partners, tourists, students, businessmen, journalists or simply as friends – but not as occupation forces. (great applause from the floor) ladies and gentlemen, i would like to end this speech with a quote from the president of the first georgia republic, noe zhordania. as you might know, georgia was the first european social democratic republic ever proclaimed in 1918, and we are very proud of this. we have strong women’s rights and other strong social rights enshrined in the constitution. a few days before the red army invaded georgia, zhordania explained our european choice: ‘what do we take from the cultural bow of european nations? more than 2 000 years of national culture, a democratic system and natural wealth’. russia offered us the chance to go back and have military lives. we told russia that we are going to europe, and we want russia to go together with us towards europe. today another georgian president is addressing you with the same message of love for european ideas and values. it is rare that a nation is given the same opportunity twice in history. i came here today to tell you that we will seize this opportunity and do whatever we can to achieve our european destiny.
president saakashvili, your message today was very important for all of us, but it was very important as well for the future osce summit in astana, kazakhstan, in one week’s time on 1 and 2 december. first of all it was of crucial importance to the whole of your region, to the caucasus, both the southern caucasus and the northern caucasus. we have always known that you are brave men – now we can also say that you are prudent men. courage and prudence should always go together.
mr. chairman, please! the problem of fish stocks being depleted affects not only us europeans, but also fishermen and consumers around the world. the lack of adequate sources of catch is a threat to food security. it can also lead to the disruption of aquatic ecosystems and, as a result, of the entire natural environment of our planet. the baltic sea is particularly vulnerable to the extinction of certain fish species due to climate change, and the failures of european fisheries legislation to prohibit fishing will worsen the situation. that is why it is so important to revise the common fisheries policy accordingly, so that it can guarantee sustainable fishing in our waters. i supported this report for these reasons.
mr. chairman, please! i am speaking because poland is one of the most experienced countries in terms of drastic reductions in the costs and potential of the coal industry. we introduced a radical program to close the mines 10 years ago, only instead of polish coal, we're getting 10 million tons of russian coal. i want to make sure that the co2 emissions from polish coal are the same as from russian coal. but it's good that we have a state aid program and that the commission allows it. i voted for this report. i think we need to strike a balance. the aim is not liquidation per se, but energy security, and we treat the mines as businesses.
mr. chairman, please! i wanted to say that coal is a very important resource for our prosperity and our energy security. despite research and the search for alternative energy sources, the demand for coal continues to grow. the desire to ensure constant access to its resources is therefore clear. however, once the mine becomes unprofitable, its continued maintenance with state aid distorts the market, distorts competition and, consequently, destabilises the economy of the country concerned. appropriate provisions are therefore needed to allow the effective and safe closure of such a mine. the draft regulation will ensure that these objectives are achieved, ensuring that the competitiveness of the energy market is maintained and stimulating the development of closely related industries. i voted for the report, of course.
in writing. − i have voted in support of the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund: ireland – floods in november 2009. as was the case in my home country of poland, ravaging floods have torn apart so many communities and families that it is vital to lend support to our friends in ireland. the funds will come from the solidarity fund, which is allocated for major catastrophes such as this. the funds will go to those communities that were hit the hardest and lend support to those families and business that were most affected by these floods and assist them with rebuilding and recovering some of the revenue lost because of the devastation of their businesses. it is important that the eu continues to support its member states in their time of need and truly invokes the idea of solidarity.
in writing. - i would like to express my support for this report, based primarily on the fact that the german government's support for alcohol monopolies is mainly directed at farmers and small distilleries. the aid does not infringe competition rules and is aid to the smallest enterprises. despite the appropriate flow of aid, i support the request to provide information on any developments concerning this support. there must be no infringement of any kind, because that would be unfair to other, often much weaker and poorer producers. i have some doubts, however, whether such a way of supporting one country's economy will not weaken the balance on the european market. such an instrument should be extended to other member states so that they too can support their economies.
in writing. - the european central bank's recent activities have been mainly to deal with the financial crisis and to try to restore stability to the economic and monetary union. coping with the effects of such a severe crisis requires that individual countries adopt a new model of economic governance. the european central bank should support fiscal consolidation by encouraging the repayment of existing loans rather than providing new loans to highly indebted economies. the financial crisis in the individual countries of the european union poses a major threat to the stability of the euro, and at the same time points to irregularities in the functioning of the euro area and draws attention to the need for reforms and more effective economic consolidation in the countries of the union. it is also necessary to ensure that preventive mechanisms are developed in case the current crisis becomes more serious or enters a further phase. the european union and the euro area may even emerge stronger from this crisis, but we must draw the right lessons from the experience of recent months. i am convinced that the role of the european central bank and the governments of the individual eu countries will be crucial in this process.
in writing. - parliament reaffirms its strong support for the development of the eu's common security and defence policy, despite being consistently denied active participation in its shaping. we all see the added value of this policy, which is first and foremost the possibility of combining military and civilian capabilities, although in practice, as the report emphasises, there is much to be done. i support the integration of the institutional structures of this policy into the european external action service, but as rapporteur i stress the need for the eeas to work closely with the structures remaining in the commission.
in writing. - i very much welcome the european parliament's position adopted today on state aid for the closure of non-competitive mines. it should be noted that the state aid must be specific in this case and the provisions which de facto allow the consequent non-closure of mines and do not explicitly require the reimbursement of public aid in the event of non-closure should be respected. we cannot allow the state budget to be used as a means of making the mines profitable. we have proposed today a mechanism to force member states to reduce public aid consistently and gradually to general rules that apply to all sectors of the economy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs eva joly on the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly in 2009. the issue we should be looking at in more detail is the regional jpa meetings. there is no doubt that these meetings are necessary. but it seems to me that we should refine and refine the formula of these meetings. we should be better able to define our working methods at regional meetings. the value of these is that they allow a greater focus on regional problems. the better definition of formal procedures will enhance the impact of acp-eu regional jpa meetings. that's why it's worth doing. thank you very much. thank you.
in writing. − cooperation with african, caribbean and pacific countries is one of the most important aspects of the european union's foreign policy. i therefore regret to hear that the acp group is in financial difficulties. despite these problems, the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly is today one of the most important forums for dialogue on the north-south axis. i welcome the development of regional integration in the african countries on the one hand and the caribbean on the other. this facilitates the european parliament's effective dialogue with the global south. taking these aspects into account and fully supporting the development of the eu's dialogue with the countries of the south, i decided to support the report on the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly in 2009.
in writing. − as a member of the delegation to the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, i supported the report on the work of the cap in 2009. i welcome the work of the assembly this year, including in particular the resolutions adopted on the impact of the global crisis on social conditions and on climate change. the 20th session of the assembly next week will also focus on the implementation of the millennium development goals. as a member of the committee on social affairs and the environment, i believe it is crucial that next year we have a comprehensive analysis and debate on the environmental and social situation in the acp countries. a review of the actions taken so far will allow us to plan effectively for the years ahead. following the eesc's opinion, i also advocate greater support and recognition for the african social economy. the inclusion of the african social economy in the eu agenda can result both in enhanced cooperation with international organisations such as the ilo and the world bank, and in increased support from the european public for enhanced eu external assistance through greater involvement of the main actors of the european social economy. i think the cap could also take a deeper look at the role of the african social economy in poverty eradication. i hope that the cap will be actively involved in the implementation of the eu-africa strategy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of adopting a report on the civil, commercial, family and private international law aspects of the action plan for the implementation of the stockholm programme. since the union acquired competences in the field of justice and home affairs and since the creation of the area of freedom, security and justice (now under the joint competence of the union and the member states), considerable progress has been made in the field of civil law. the european commission's communication entitled 'an area of freedom, security and justice serving the citizens' (com (2009) 0262) proposed an ambitious development plan for the period 2010-2014. there is no doubt that further progress in this area requires a more strategic approach, focusing on the needs of citizens and businesses in the exercise of their rights and freedoms in the single market. progressive harmonisation, approximation and standardisation are desirable, for example in the area of consumer protection. of course, the functionality of measures already in place must be ensured while respecting and reconciling radically different legal traditions. however, i believe that their coexistence should be seen as a strength and inspiration in the creation of common solutions to european legislation, not as an obstacle. in order to meet the challenges, the commission should hold an open debate with the various actors in the justice sector, including in particular the legal profession.
in writing. − the stockholm programme will enable citizens of the european union to exercise their civil, commercial and labour rights throughout the eu. this is beneficial and more transparent for citizens and it builds the coherence of our regulatory system within the european union. however, to build more uniform systems, we need to coordinate our actions more closely and exchange experience between the countries of the union. this is particularly true of the justice sector, including the crucial issues of migration and the fight against organised crime. it will be very important, especially in the current economic crisis, to develop effective mechanisms for action in the area of strengthening the single market and economic integration, i.e. freer rules for trade between the countries of the european union and the creation of legislation on trade between third countries. from the point of view of economic actors, it is essential to clarify the rights of protection of entrepreneurs and consumers and to continue to monitor effectively the implementation and enforcement of single market legislation.
i shall start with a short announcement. i strongly condemn the attack of the democratic people’s republic of korea against the south korean island yeonpyeong. i am deeply concerned regarding today’s events on the korean peninsula. using raw force and military power will not solve any issues and further loss of human lives must be avoided. in the interests of the korean peninsula and the wider region, the north and south should make efforts to rebuild confidence in a durable way. this is why i welcome the announcement of president lee myung-bak that the south korean government intends to avoid escalation of the worrying situation. i call on the government of the democratic people’s republic of korea to immediately stop any hostile actions and to refrain from all activities that risk further escalation. the korean armistice agreement must be fully respected by the democratic people’s republic of korea.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the 2011 budget (2010/2972 ((rsp)). let me begin our discussion. the european commission has launched a new initiative to promote the use of the euro. mr. minister wathelet, i have to ask you to stop. mr. minister chastel, please! the european parliament and the council failed to reach agreement on the 2011 budget at conciliation meetings. we're sorry about that. an agreement was possible. the european parliament is aware of the need to save. we were prepared to agree to limit the increase in payments in the 2011 budget to 2.91% compared to 2010. we wanted to establish the way in which the treaty of lisbon was to be implemented, and specifically what procedures should accompany the next budgetary negotiations. this is important because the treaty of lisbon is in force. we didn't want to violate the treaty in any way. we know that most of the member states wanted this agreement. now we need to figure out how to fix the budget shortfall as soon as possible. this is the responsibility of all three european institutions. we have said that the fast track is possible for parliament, but only if our expectations regarding the procedures for the next budget negotiations are guaranteed. in the last few days, we've seen some positive progress in terms of talks with the council. i believe an agreement is within reach. the european parliament is prepared to do a great deal to reach an agreement as soon as possible. we concluded the negotiations before midnight on 15 november with the expectation from parliament that we would find a good solution on two key issues: the flexibility mechanisms to ensure the financing of the policies resulting from the lisbon treaty, and the arrangements for parliament's participation in the negotiation process for the next multiannual financial framework. we also had expectations about the proposals relating to the european union's own resources. we expect the european commission to play a decisive role in this. i'm confident that with a mutual willingness to talk, we can reach an agreement. i would like to emphasise once again that the role of the european commission seems to be crucial. we therefore look forward to the speech by president barroso, who will present both the draft of the new budget, which is due to be published on 1 december, and the way in which parliament's main expectations will be met. of course, the speeches of the presidency minister watheleth will also be of particular importance to us, as will the remarks of minister chasel.
president of the council. - mr president, i should like to begin by saying that the lack of conciliation on 15 november is not something anyone can be happy about. it is true that we would have preferred to have had a completely different debate today, with the conclusion of a conciliation procedure which could have led to an agreement and with the possibility of voting on this budget also at the level of the european parliament. it is true that we have all been disappointed that this conciliation procedure has not been successful. but at the same time i heard - not only from the commission, which played a facilitating role, which really played its conciliatory role at every stage of the procedure, but also from parliament - a will, and a reminder of this firm will to achieve and to be in a prospect of success rather than in a prospect of failure. i heard it in the council too. it is therefore true that the belgian presidency, immediately after the failure of 15 november, which we must of course regard as such, wanted to resume direct contacts and try to make progress in ensuring that this first budgetary procedure based on the lisbon treaty is a success rather than a failure. but i would remind you - and this is how the conciliation procedure came to a halt - that it will always be possible for each of us to find reasons why it cannot succeed. it will always be possible for parliament to find elements of the council which do not suit it and it will always be possible for the council to find that some of the elements proposed by parliament are not sufficient. there's always going to be a way to not make it work. but i have heard from the heads of both institutions a desire to succeed. it is important now that we all take responsibility and that we succeed in reaching this agreement rather than remaining in this impasse. again, what signal would we be giving if we were unable to reach an agreement on this conciliation? what image would the european union give of itself abroad, in this particularly unstable, particularly difficult economic context, if it were not able, in these difficult times, to cling together, to make the necessary compromises between the institutions to reach an agreement on a budget, to reach an agreement between our various institutions? apart from the image, apart from the initial failure of this budgetary procedure based on the lisbon treaty, there would also be - make no mistake, and this is what will affect the citizens of the european union most - very concrete consequences. some of them have already been mentioned, because a budget in provisional twelfths is a budget of "zero growth", without taking inflation into account, with a european external action service that could be in difficulty, with financial supervisory bodies that could be in difficulty, with cohesion policies - i remind you that the budget as proposed provided for a 14% increase in payment appropriations - with therefore amounts for cohesion policies that could not be released, with even more difficulties related to the 2020 strategy, with political priorities that are dear to parliament and that were integrated into this 2011 budget proposal, such as mobility, youth, education - essentially under heading 1a - all of which are also at risk of not being implemented. so, in addition to the negative image that a no-deal scenario might give, it would also have very pragmatic, very real, very concrete consequences, which would certainly not serve to improve the image of the european union among the citizens themselves. so if we want to reverse this trend, if we want to remain credible, if we want to have that dose of responsibility, it is important that we can use these last weeks to reach an agreement and get out of this spiral of disagreement. to do that, let's be clear, there are three elements. first of all, there is the 2011 budget as such, with its figures, a budget on which - and i have heard from a number of group leaders here - there could be an agreement on the increase in payment appropriations of 2.91%. we could have an agreement on the figures as such, on the 2011 budget, on what is actually on the agenda today. i would like to say again that we are aware that this represents a number of concessions for the european parliament. we know that in the 2011 budget parliament made a number of concessions to its initial demands. the second theme which was raised by almost all of you is the multiannual financial framework for the financing of iter, which concerns the question of flexibility. once again, the belgian presidency, wishing to follow the logic of the agreement, put the proposals on flexibility directly back on the table. that is the framework we are working on at the moment. but i would remind you that unanimity will be needed to be able to move the question of flexibility, that this must be agreed in a number of frameworks, and in particular that it must preserve the neutrality of the budget for the period of the multiannual framework. the opportunities for redeployment and transfer will also need to have been exploited before this notion of flexibility can be used. but we can move forward. if everyone makes the necessary effort, i think we can make progress on this notion of flexibility, on this achievement and on this objective of funding iter 2012-2013, besides the question of the budget 2011 strictu sensu. there is a third theme which you have also mentioned: political declarations. and on this point i must say that the council cannot go beyond what it said on monday at the conciliation level, even though i know that parliament was not able to agree with it at that time. i know that the commitments that have been mentioned seemed too weak for parliament, but we shall have the opportunity to raise these issues again and discuss them among ourselves. we will have to have these discussions because the treaty, in its articles 311, 312 and 324, mentions a number of contacts which must take place between our various institutions, and we will have them because they are provided for in the treaty. the declaration referred to articles 312 and 324, which require that we have these discussions in the future between our different institutions. but once again we will have a whole host of arguments to justify our refusal to agree. i have, however, seen a determination to achieve this in the council and in parliament. do we really want to play the game of fear and say to ourselves that we would rather not have a budget, not implement the policies envisaged in the 2011 budget, not succeed in the first budget based on the lisbon treaty, or do we want to embark on a positive path where we are gradually reaching a number of agreements to enable the european union to move forward and to enable the 2011 budget to implement a number of policies that we have decided to put forward? i hope that this is the logic that we will use in the coming weeks to ensure that this first procedure under lisbon is a success rather than a failure.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in full exercise of its right of initiative, the college of commissioners has just decided, at its meeting here in strasbourg, that the commission will present a new draft budget in the coming days, by 1 december at the latest. we hope that parliament and the council will approve it within the next fortnight. this project will directly take up all the points on which we agreed before the conciliation which ended last week. in fact, we were very close to an agreement and i would like to thank all those who worked in that spirit, a true european spirit of compromise. it is a pity that in the end no agreement was possible. but i would like to emphasize the role of commissioner lewandowski, who has put all his energy and competence into it, the role of many in parliament, but also the very constructive role of the belgian presidency, which i thank for having done everything and for continuing to do everything to reach an agreement. i think that the draft we are going to present deserves your support, and that of the council, and that it will make it possible to arrive at a budget before the end of this year, so that the union will have a budget by 1 january 2011. i think it would be very difficult to explain to the european citizens that in a crisis such as the one we are now experiencing in europe, we are not able to reach an agreement on the budget, which is really a symbol of europe's ability to respond to the challenges, challenges such as the one ireland or the european economy is now facing. our proposal will take full account of parliament's proposal to increase commitments under the heading 'competitiveness for growth and employment' and under the heading 'external relations' through the use of the flexibility instrument. it will fix a level of payments corresponding to an increase of 2.91%. i am convinced that this proposal will help to find a balance which will be conducive to accession. it is clear that this agreement will have to clarify the issues of 'future financing'. we must show that all stakeholders understand the implications of the treaty and that close cooperation between the institutions at the highest political level is a natural consequence of our common commitment to adopt the appropriate financial framework for the future. the commission will take all the necessary initiatives to promote a permanent and fruitful dialogue at all levels, including that of the presidents of the institutions, in order to develop a common approach to enable the necessary decisions to be taken. let me remind you of the important speech by president buzek to the european council on 27 october, which highlighted the increased role of the european parliament in the lisbon treaty, including in budgetary matters, a role which i also had the opportunity to mention when i supported your president's speech to the 27 heads of state and government. i want to be very clear about the commission's position on a number of key points. firstly, as the recent review of the budget shows, we will use our right of initiative to put forward formal proposals on own resources before the end of june next. of course, under the treaty, the european parliament will have to be consulted on these proposals, which is in line with the expectations of the interinstitutional agreement concluded in 2006. secondly, we will argue for the need to take full account of the changes envisaged by the lisbon treaty when we put forward proposals, both for future budgets and for the multiannual financial framework as a whole. the budget must reflect the updating of the union's priorities resulting from the treaty. i also want to make it clear that, as the review of the budget shows, flexibility in our budgets means that the resources we have at our disposal are focused on the political objectives of the union. this is why it is important that flexibility be clearly maintained for the adoption by qualified majority of revisions of less than 0.03% of gross national income. i very much hope that we will receive positive news from the council very soon on this, so that the political conditions are in place to ensure the success of the procedure for adopting the 2011 budget. the recent review of the union budget presented by the commission has clearly shown the importance we attach to optimising the added value of union expenditure. we cannot afford to lose the opportunity to make the union budget really make a difference by promoting our ambitions and implementing the treaty objectives. the commission will develop a methodology to show the added value and we are also prepared to quantify the costs of a 'non-europe'. we must state very clearly that the benefits of membership of the union cannot be reduced to accounting aspects. if we focus on the costs of the budget, we must also look closely at who are the real beneficiaries of the union's policies and not just at the annual budgetary costs. these are, ladies and gentlemen, the clear commitments i am making to you today on behalf of the commission. i will confirm them in writing to the presidents of parliament and of the council. we are also prepared to reiterate them in the form of declarations to be attached to an agreement between the council and parliament if this helps to achieve that agreement. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i know that many people on all sides of this debate believe that the next multiannual financial framework will be a decisive test for europe, and i share their view. it will be a test of our ability to bring about real change for millions of europeans, to use this powerful tool to drive our ambition for a europe geared towards sustainable growth and jobs for the future, a europe strong on the international stage and a europe based on the values we hold dear. it will also be a test of our ability to develop a smart budget, focused on where resources can be best deployed and leading to tangible results, rather than a misguided budget, because political compromise has been preferred to the quality and efficiency of our spending. however, as the past few weeks have shown, this may be above all a test for our system of governance, for our ability not only to make strong arguments but also to recognise that the strength of our union and the lisbon treaty lies in finding the best solutions to achieve our common objectives. the proposals which the commission will present in june will require considerable effort to reach the necessary consensus. the commission will be open to all ideas on how to build the debate around our proposals on the solid foundations of the lisbon treaty. the debate we are having today is a very important one. they deserve our full attention. i am convinced that all parties will be determined to reach an agreement. we have the outlines of a solution based on the possibilities offered by the present conditions which are - i would like to stress this - very, very sensitive conditions, requiring additional responsibility from all - parliament, council, commission. we must not forget that we are discussing the budget and not a secondary issue. we are discussing one of the main tools available to the union. this tool, far from being a luxury we can do without in difficult times, is absolutely essential if we are to restore growth in europe, create jobs and generate prosperity. the european budget is different from national budgets. i want to emphasize this because sometimes we make very quick analogies. firstly, the european budget is not in deficit: it is always in balance. it differs from the member states' budgets because it is primarily an investment budget, contributing to growth, and we know how much we need this investment at the moment. so this tool is too important to be compromised. europe needs the european union to have a budget. this is not a budget for brussels, it is a budget for the citizens of europe. it's a budget for the unemployed who's now looking for a new job. this is a budget for the regions of europe. this is a budget for innovation in europe. it must therefore be made clear that this is not a budget for bureaucracy and bureaucrats. this is a budget for europeans. we must put an end to the disruption caused by new disputes and avoid the uncertainties associated with the provisional twelfths. these are not just uncertainties, these are real losses for real citizens. if only the provisional twelfths were applied, our citizens would not understand that issues, however important, can impede a budget which directly affects the livelihoods and prospects of citizens throughout the union. that is why i am confident that with a supplementary compromise - and i appeal to the european spirit, especially from those who did not show it last time - it will be possible to have a 2011 budget and to build the basis for a real serious discussion on the prospects for future eu funding.
colleagues, if we go smoothly through our discussion then at the end of the discussion before 17.00 we can give the floor, together with our order, to president-in-office wathelet and he can explain everything. let us be patient. this is a very important discussion.
mr. chairman, please! as rapporteur for the 2011 budget of the european union, i would like to underline the constructive role played by the belgian presidency. i also thank the european commission for its commitment. but our efforts are not over. on the contrary, we should intensify them at this time. i personally believe that the failure of the 2011 budget negotiations is a failure for all of us. but i want to share with you my interpretation of why this fiasco happened on monday. we have seen the deplorable situation where several member states have dragged the negotiations until midnight, only to see them fail. we have not been able to complete them in time because there was simply no will on the part of these few member states to talk. i personally find it very sad and very surprising that there are diplomats, deputy finance ministers, sitting around the negotiating table and not wanting to talk about finances, about future financing and about the current financing of the european union. this is absolutely incomprehensible and unacceptable to me, because what is going to happen next if politicians and diplomats don't want to talk to each other? my next point is that the tension around the 2011 budget debate started because the european parliament wants to draw the attention of the member states to a problem that we anticipate for the future and that we are already seeing today: that the european union is constantly taking on new tasks, constantly opening up new areas of activity, has more and more ambition, and at the same time the member states that support these ambitions are at the same time unwilling to finance these ambitions and these plans and these actions and these new areas. we need to talk about this widening gap. in times of crisis, the more we need to talk about finances, the more we need to talk about how the european union is to be financed, the more we need the european parliament and this is not the time to create a budgetary taboo.
mr. chairman, please! we do indeed have a serious budgetary crisis in the european union, for which - as my predecessor has mentioned - many parties are responsible. this is perhaps a bit of a negotiating error on the part of parliament: we tried to get too many things done at once. the problem for the beneficiaries, but also a really serious political crisis, which i think is that the spirit of euro-enthusiasm has disappeared somewhere. this spirit of enthusiasm was felt in the european parliament when we discussed the lisbon treaty. then those who were not quite euro-enthusiastic about it were hurried, and when the treaty negotiations were over, integration was deepened and discussions about money, about the budget, started, it turned out that instead of euro-enthusiasm there is euro-egoism and a willingness to pay as little as possible for this increased european integration. i'd like to see more euro-enthusiasm on the budget.
member of the commission. − mr president, here is my brief supplement to what was introduced by president barroso, after listening to the comments of the honourable members. the strategy of the commission in these specific circumstances is very simple and is based on the simple assumption that unity, not divisions, is what europe needs to face other challenges. i think that the belgian presidency is acting on the same assumption. our role is clearly defined in the treaties in the event of agreement – and in the event of disagreement, which was not very likely, but it has happened for the first time in 26 years. we see the frustration of millions of beneficiaries throughout the european union. therefore we need to respond. we understand that we should move quickly and we have taken the first step today to agree on the guidelines, then, possibly on 1 december, to submit the figures, which are no longer controversial, to defend flexibility, which we need, to come up with a proposal on the arrangements for cooperation built on the lisbon treaty, and to defend – which is also important – the commission’s right of initiative to present the vision of the future next year. it is our common responsibility to deliver what was promised, what is expected by the beneficiaries, what has been built up, as a budget, on the revenue side, while fully respecting the fiscal sovereignty of member states. this is about a modest budget that was rising at half the rate of a national budget, despite the enlargement accommodating over 12 new states. this was clear proof of discipline and rigour. therefore let us carry out the job, while working for a better scenario. i am appealing to your sense of responsibility. along with president barroso, i feel very much encouraged by today’s debate in parliament.
president of the council. - mr president, it is true that this kind of debate should help us to reach an agreement rather than make the situation even more difficult. i hope i can say that this is indeed the spirit in which we had this debate this afternoon. yes, there will be progress and we will have to try to find agreements on flexibility and on the financing of iter. yes, this perspective for the 2012 and 2013 budgets will have to be agreed and we are working really hard to demonstrate that we have the capacity to reach agreements on this 2012-13 perspective, particularly on the important issue of flexibility. second point. yes, we will have debates under article 312 and under article 324 to see how these articles and new procedures are actually implemented, implemented and made real. and we'll have to agree. i have heard today that the commission is going to use its power of initiative, whether on the question of own resources or on the multiannual framework. on the basis of these elements, we will have to sit down, we will have to discuss, we will have to ensure that articles 312 and 324 of the treaty are respected, which provide that all the elements must be implemented to reach an agreement, to have these meetings, to ensure that coordination enables these new procedures provided for in the treaty to become a reality. on the flexibility element for 2012-13, we will have to implement these articles 312 and 324 of the treaty, even if, once again - i would like to emphasize this - we have to ensure that the 2011 budget is voted. the credibility of the european union is at stake. the effectiveness of the policies is at stake, and they can only be achieved if the 2011 budget is passed. and we are talking about cohesion policies! let's just talk about those! it is really about our credibility and the implementation of our policies. let us not give reason to those who do not want a budget so that the european union has even fewer resources at its disposal to implement its policies. but to prove them wrong, we must follow a consensus-based logic together and use the last few weeks to bring that consensus-based logic to fruition and make everyone a winner by having to make concessions, that is true. but at least it is a logic of going forward rather than going backwards, which would be the case if we did not have a 2011 budget in the next few weeks.
mr president-in-office, the conference of presidents is just about to start, so some real questions and answers are necessary in this chamber, because it will be a very important meeting. we need to see progress on the part of the council. you have probably had many discussions with the members of the council, with the member states. how could you explain this to us? is it possible to move forward in our direction? we have certain expectations. you know them very well, because as a matter of fact this was the subject of our last questions – three points at the very end on 15 november, a few minutes before 12 midnight. it is very important for us to have such an answer from you.
president of the council. - mr schulz, i also heard your question. who are the ones he doesn't steal? i think that either we choose the logic of pointing the finger at each other - your fault, our fault - or we try to tell ourselves that we take another logic and we try each on our side to make a number of advances to go into this logic of agreement. we can also stick to the logic which unfortunately led to a disagreement on 15 november. whose fault is it? i could have told you that initially parliament would certainly say that it was the council's fault and the council would certainly say that it was parliament's fault, both thanking the commission for making conciliation efforts. we must try to get out of that logic and use the last few weeks and days to enter another logic. is there any progress in answering the president's question? yes, there may be, because we know that if we continue with what we had on 15 november, we will only be repeating the disagreement we had on 15 november, particularly on an important issue, which is that of flexibility. why is it important? because it seems to me that it responds to one of the important concerns of parliament, which is to have a number of perspectives, at least for 2012-13 at the end of the current multiannual framework. that is why, on this point, the day after 15 november, the belgian presidency immediately resumed contacts in an attempt to make progress on these other points as well. yes, there are possibilities for agreement in this context, but it will be necessary for both sides to reverse the logic and to enter into a logic of agreement, in order to reach a conclusion, otherwise we will unfortunately have to see a new failure and i have just given the harmful consequences that a failure would have, essentially on the implementation of our policies. i think the people of europe deserve better than that.
president-in-office, thank you for your activity during the negotiations and also for the discussion. we hope that the result will be positive as soon as possible. thanks also to commission president barroso and commissioner lewandowski for your contribution to our discussion. i have some important remarks to make now and i shall change to my mother tongue.
i'm closing the debate. i would like to inform you that the deadlines for tabling texts relating to this item are: draft resolution wednesday 24 november 2010 at 10.00, amendments to draft resolution wednesday 24 november 2010 at 15.00. the vote will take place on thursday 25 november 2010. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. the confusion surrounding the eu budget for 2011 is a source of great concern to me, because on the one hand we cannot give up on our ambitious plans to build a strong european union, and on the other hand poland will take over the presidency of the council of the european union in the second half of 2011. if the european union does not have a budget by then, if the budget has to be established every month, it will be very difficult for our presidency to carry out its duties. we have to ask ourselves what is more important: a temporary, easy solution, which means giving up a few countries and the presidency, or a more difficult, ambitious plan that will make the union stronger in the long term and from which we all really benefit? i believe that it is more important that we build a strong european union together. such a european union needs its own resources, a strong and solidary budget to finance what is needed. there are several european union countries, led by the united kingdom, that don't even want to talk about it. we cannot afford to give in to national egotism.
mr. chairman, please! the commission's programme is ambitious, but i was missing one thing: i would like the commission to put more emphasis on implementing the rules, laws, strategies and policies that already exist. we are developing strategies and drawing up new documents, but there are still many things that have not been achieved, especially in the energy sector. that is why i think that this should be a separate, special item in the work of the commission. if the commission does not ensure that the rights it has already established are respected, it will simply lose credibility and legitimacy. we have also thus allowed europe to suffer serious financial problems by not respecting the maastricht criteria. many countries have slowly fallen short of these standards, have exceeded them, and we are in a very big mess right now. so maybe it's not very effective, maybe it doesn't look very good in writing, but i think it's key to the work of the commission.
mr. chairman, please! when a work programme is formulated, it is always assumed that there will be continuation on the one hand and change on the other. what are the proportions and the relationships between them in 2011? there is no doubt that we must continue to work to overcome the crisis, to improve economic growth and create jobs. so we have our goals for 2011. it's just the amount of strategies that we've adopted. we need to change the depth of the reforms in economic governance. this is the case with the monti report on the necessary solutions for the single market. we need to do the same in reforming financial institutions and their supervision. the year 2011 should be the year of implementation of the solutions adopted and the start of the new agencies. improving competitiveness can mainly be achieved through increased efficiency, using innovative and modern methods. finally, it is important to work on the objectives and the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020. the focus should be on deeper economic integration in the future.
in writing. the commission's communication setting out the 2011 work plan focuses on 'getting out' of the crisis and boosting economic growth. one of its key elements is the virtual market, which still has enormous potential to grow, provided that a genuine 'single market' is created on the internet. i therefore strongly encourage the commission to implement the digital agenda, to which this communication refers, in a credible manner. i believe that the use of the potential that information technology gives us should also be seen as a way out of the economic crisis. the development of online commerce, intellectual property law solutions or the online sharing of europe's cultural heritage should be seen as a test of the european union's effectiveness. as rapporteur of the committee on legal affairs on better law-making (2008 report), i would like to express my satisfaction that the commission has decided to incorporate the recommendations of my report into its annual work plan. i am referring to putting more emphasis on the so-called ex-post evaluation of european law and extending the timeframe for public consultation on new proposals from 8 to 12 weeks.
in writing. the commission's 2011 work programme must include a draft directive on violence against women and an eu funding programme for sport. the commission has made such commitments. it's time to put them into practice. violence against women is the most serious form of discrimination against women and a violation of human rights today. in europe, as many as 45% of women are victims of violence, or 100 million. 1 to 2 million european women experience it every day. there is no justification for delay in drawing up a directive on this matter. i would also like to draw attention to the issue of sport, which, following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, falls within the eu's competence. the commission, citing budgetary constraints at national and european level, has once again postponed the submission of a union programme in this area. i'm afraid if we adopt that approach, there'll never be a program, because there'll always be more important things than sports. on the other hand, the promotion of physical activity has clear benefits in terms of improving the health and well-being of europeans, their productivity and efficiency at work, reducing illness and thus healthcare costs, and countering social exclusion. it is also very important to exploit the potential of older people in the labour market. i hope that the commission will take this aspect, which has been raised many times, into account in its future proposals on employment and job creation.
member of the commission. − the belgian presidency held a conference in liège about the future of cohesion policies on the basis of the fifth cohesion report, which we jointly published with commissioner hahn. conditionality was one of the main discussion points and, as regards the european social fund, the situation described by mrs göncz is being covered, and we would like to develop conditionality in that sense. conditionality has various meanings and, unfortunately, some of these are seen as unfair or counterproductive. we believe that the real meaning of conditionality, as regards the structural funds, is that awareness and responsibility have to be raised not just as regards the content, but also the context of the projects and the operational programmes. we really have to connect with the social reality when we fund programmes in various regions and microregions, and we will take this very seriously. we have been working recently with some member states on community-based services. for example, in bulgaria a joint project was financed by the european social and regional development fund to close down institutions for children with disabilities, as a first step in implementing an ambitious action plan to close down all existing institutions for children and providing family-type care and new services to support families. this particular programme was in the range of eur 39 million but there are also similar ones not only in bulgaria, but also in slovakia.
vice-preseident of the commission. − mr president, when mr mitchell tabled these questions on 7 october, the situation was not the same as it is today in ireland and in the irish banking sector. my answer will take into account what has happened since this question was asked. seven days before your question was tabled, on 30 september, the irish finance minister, mr lenihan, discussed the total cost of the restructuring of the anglo irish bank, giving two possible figures: a mid-range estimate of eur 29 billion and a higher estimate of eur 34 billion. at the time total capital injections from public funds to anglo irish amounted to around eur 23 billion. as always, since the beginning of this crisis, according to our banking and restructuring information, when financial institutions receive injections of public capital, they have to present a restructuring plan to the commission. following much discussion on anglo irish, this restructuring plan was presented by the irish government on 26 october. in this draft restructuring plan they considered a winding-down scenario for anglo irish proposing the split of anglo into two banks – an asset recovery bank to wind down the assets of the bank and a funding bank to get the resources needed to keep it running during the process of winding down its assets. a scenario in which assets are wound down is less problematic than one in which the bank continues to operate, both in terms of state-aid rules and competition. consequently, i made some public statements saying that, in our opinion, the task was therefore not as difficult as negotiations concerning certain restructuring plans for other financial institutions in many member states. we had been working on this draft restructuring plan from the time the government presented us with the document until last sunday when the irish government decided to ask for a programme making use of the different mechanisms to support member states in the euro area with financial difficulties. now due account should be paid to the restructuring plan for anglo in the ongoing negotiations on this programme. hopefully the irish programme will be agreed and adopted in the coming days. i very much hope so. in this framework, i can give you some more precise answers on the anglo irish bank restructuring plan presented by the irish government that will be considered by my services pending a decision. i hope this will take place as soon as possible after the adoption of the programme. in any case, i must say that i very much hope that the adoption and implementation of the programme will lead to a more favourable climate for tackling ireland’s financial and economic problems. hopefully the sound and strong fundamentals of the irish economy will receive very good treatment, taking into account the need to restructure the financial sector that is the origin of the problems in your country.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i wanted to thank you for the information, but my question is about something else. you spoke, commissioner, of a very large bank, the anglo irish bank, but the information we are receiving indicates that other large banks in ireland are also in trouble. would you please inform us whether similar negotiations are also taking place with other banks in ireland?
mr. chairman, please! i would like to thank the commissioner for this interesting information, but my question and concern is related to the budgetary situation. we know very well that there is uncertainty today as to what the budget will be for next year. i would therefore like to ask the commissioner whether these disturbances could in any particular way affect the very interesting plans you have put forward.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i come from a country that was under communist dictatorship 20 years ago. i've had the displeasure of living under this system, and i know what it's like in a country like that. and i remember how important it was for us to have a voice from the free world, as we used to say, from here, from western europe, from the united states. i remember how it made me feel that what we were doing there - fighting for freedom and democracy - was meaningful. i think we have a duty today to help people like liu xiaobo. i am consciously referring to the experience of democracy and those who fought for democracy in central europe. the name 'map 08' is a deliberate reference to 'map 77'. i think that we all here may differ in economic or political views, but on human rights issues, we should all be absolutely united. i'm counting on this room to be that way.
madam president! it is really good that the european parliament and the commission have decided that mr liu xiaobo's situation should be discussed in the plenary session of the european parliament. it's a pity there's so few of us here for such a debate. the international community, of which we are one of the most important actors, should be united and show solidarity in support of the fight for human rights, because solidarity is the key word in this debate. liu xiaobo in 1989 -- when my country was finally winning against the communist dictatorship -- protested in tiananmen square, demanding the very democratic freedoms that almost all of europe was soon to enjoy. and he didn't give up on his efforts - despite spending years in prison, he signed a petition calling for the democratization of the country, for which he was sentenced to another eleven years in prison. our leader, lech walesa, like liu, sought a bloodless change, sought freedom. we had the support of democratic countries. walesa couldn't go to collect the nobel either, but still this nobel was for us poles the hope for freedom. this nobel became one of the catalysts for change. today is a good time to bring people like liu xiaobo to the attention of the world. we must not forget that besides such flagship figures like him, there are many others who are not mentioned, such as human rights activist mao hengfeng, who is currently in a re-education camp for labor for protesting against the imprisonment of liu xiaobo. the european union should give greater weight to human rights in its dealings with china. this should be one of the priorities at meetings such as the eu-china summit on 6 october. i express my disappointment at the omission of this essential subject. we have to show that we are not blind to human rights, and the opportunity to do that is the award ceremony in oslo, which i hope the whole world and all the ambassadors will attend.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. in may, the european parliament adopted a resolution on simplifying the common agricultural policy. can the commission explain what measures have been taken so far to reduce the bureaucratic burden on farmers across the european union? can the commission state how it intends to comply with the recommendations contained in the parliament's resolution on simplifying the management of the common agricultural policy in the light of the expected reform of the policy? farmers are demanding simplification of the common agricultural policy because they are being harassed, both in poland and in other eu countries. the european parliament has spoken out on this issue on several occasions, most recently in mr richard ashworth's report on simplifying the management of the common agricultural policy. it's time to make it happen. we can't let bureaucracy destroy our work. if the european union is to develop, it must not create barriers, especially bureaucratic ones.
madam president! in the commission's communication on the future of the common agricultural policy, administrative simplification is one of the proposals for reforming european agriculture. the proposal is, in a sense, a follow-up to the recommendations made by the european parliament in its resolution of may this year. reducing the administrative and bureaucratic burden will make it easier for farmers to raise funds, improve the flow of information and increase the efficiency of controls carried out by local authorities. this in turn will ensure the supply of safe food in adequate quantities, while increasing the competitiveness of our sector. but we must be sure that simplification will actually take place at both european and national level, that the simplifications proposed are not another poorly worded statement of fact, that the simplifications proposed will lead to a reduction rather than an increase in administrative expenditure.
control is a key element of the cap management system. the costs of setting up, maintaining and administering the management and control system are a significant burden on member states' budgets. experience shows that the complexity of the criteria for access to aid and their frequent change create a number of problems at the implementation stage, not only for farmers but also for the administration itself. the future cap must be understandable to farmers and taxpayers alike. without further simplification, this will not be possible. it seems that every time we try to reform the cap, we create more and more bureaucracy. i also call on the member states not to add additional and often unnecessary provisions to the union guidelines. i propose that in future the payment request should cover the entire budgetary period. it should be drawn up for a period of two years, with the possibility of reporting changes.
madam president! given the exceptional importance of the apiculture sector for agricultural production, the preservation of biodiversity or the nutritional value of honey, existing support for the apiculture sector should be maintained and strengthened after 2013. such actions contribute to the improvement of bee health, the increase of bee colonies and the increase of honey production. the efficiency of beekeeping, like other sectors, depends largely on the knowledge, skills and experience of beekeepers. in poland, we have the only beekeeping school in europe where students from different countries take lessons. the european centre for the training of beekeepers could be set up on the basis of this school and its facilities, the university of natural sciences in nearby lublin and the agricultural scientific institutes in puławy. beekeepers' organisations are important for the development of the sector. many activities in the field of training support programmes, quality issues and standards need to be implemented jointly with them.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. for many years, we have seen an increase in bee mortality. this has a very negative impact on the production of fruit, vegetables and other crops pollinated by bees and is a threat to all biodiversity. the bees' work in the pollination process is essential. for thousands of years, european beekeeping has been an important part of the cultural heritage. in my country, where there is a specialized fruit production, farmers have long noticed the positive impact of the work of bees on the quantity and quality of the harvest. unfortunately, bees are now being attacked by a variety of diseases and pests that beekeepers cannot control on their own. therefore, financial support is needed for research into the causes of bee diseases leading to reduced bee resistance and the extinction of bee colonies. new, more effective programmes for the prevention and control of bee diseases are needed.
the next item on the agenda is the priority debate on the conclusions of the european council (28-29 october) and on economic governance (2010/2654 ((rsp)). i welcome to the chamber the president of the european council, mr herman van rompuy, and the president of the european commission, mr josé manuel barroso. we also have the representation of the belgian presidency and the commissioner. we will begin with information on the speech by mr herman van rompuy, president of the european council.
president of the european council. − mr president, the european council meeting of 28/29 october focused on the economic governance of our union, in particular with the report of the task force on economic governance. the report which it endorsed and the events since then, and i refer in particular to ireland, have illustrated the importance of the subject in general and of the need for the rapidly deployable financial mechanism we decided on in may, in particular. i pay tribute to the speed of the action of the finance ministers over the last week and i underline that this illustrates the level of determination of our concern to safeguard the stability of the euro. ‘eu and euro-area financial support will be provided under a strong policy programme which will be negotiated with the irish authorities by the commission and the imf, in liaison with the european central bank. […] given the strong fundamentals of the irish economy, decisive implementation of the programme should allow a return to a robust and sustainable growth, safeguarding the economic and social cohesion.’ i am here quoting the eurogroup and ecofin ministers. the task force was not an intergovernmental conference, but it was a review of our working methods, priorities and procedures in this field. we sought to get the right balance between, on the one hand, laying down an overall european framework regarding the need to avoid excessive fiscal deficits and economic imbalances inside the union and, on the other hand, allowing national governments freely to choose what they want to tax and how they want to spend, in accordance with their national political procedures and european law. we want to ensure that each member state fully takes into account the impact of economic and fiscal decisions on its partners and on the stability of the european union as a whole. at the same time, we want to strengthen the capacity of the union level to react when policies in a member state present a risk to the rest of the union. these recommendations, like the others by the task force, are also extremely close to the commission proposals. i also discussed these issues twice with the group leaders in the european parliament and with the chairs of the competent committees, in accordance with the format you requested. one clarification. some people claim to be disappointed that there is not more automaticity in the decision-making. well, more automaticity is exactly what we propose. the council – and it was the council under the treaty – will decide on sanctions on the basis of a so-called ‘reversed majority’. this means a commission proposal for sanctions stands unless a qualified majority vote against, whereas until now a majority had to approve the sanctions. only a few weeks ago, some member states were very reluctant about the reversed majority. it really is a breakthrough; and furthermore the task force proposed a whole series of other measures aimed at strengthening the stability pact, such as more policy coordination – the european semester – sound statistics and independent fiscal councils. member states should feel that their policy decisions affect all their partners and the union as a whole. this is the big lesson from the crisis. a general remark: the task force was a political framework aimed at rapidly generating consensus. all the breakthroughs we achieved now need to be translated into legislative texts. the work needs to be done by the commission, the council and the parliament. i trust all the institutions will keep up the momentum. it is a vital responsibility. regarding the third and final main element of the task force, this also brings me to the follow-up of the task force. we recommend a robust and credible permanent crisis mechanism to safeguard the financial stability of the euro area as a whole. all the heads of state and government agreed on that need and on the fact that it requires a limited treaty change. before concluding on this point, i would like to underline that the work on the stability pact is not simply about being punitive to member states or about rectifying past mistakes. it is important to look at it in a wider context. we must not lose sight of the wider challenge of improving europe’s structure and sustainable growth rates and a general economic performance. this was the focus of the eu 2020 strategy agreed by the european council earlier this year. the answer to those who fear that fiscal retrenchment will cut economic growth rates is to focus better on the underlying structural factors that hinder our economic performance and to remedy them. that will be the main objective of the european council meetings of february and march next year. the european council also had a brief discussion on eu budgetary matters, stimulated, among other things, by the speech of your president at the opening of our meeting. we agreed to return to this in december. in the meantime, our conclusions simply said, and i quote, ‘it is essential that the european union budget and the forthcoming multiannual financial framework reflect the consolidation efforts being made by member states to bring deficit and debt into a more sustainable path. respecting’ – and i stress this – ‘respecting the role of the different institutions and the need to meet europe’s objectives, the european council will discuss at its next meeting how to ensure that spending at the european level can make an appropriate contribution to this work’. let me reassure you that we acknowledge the new role of the parliament in line with the lisbon treaty. we did not, of course, take a position as the european council on the 2011 budgetary procedure, as this is a matter for the council of ministers and the parliament. as president of the european council, i appeal to all parties concerned to continue their consultations in order to reach a compromise on the 2011 budget with the shortest delay possible. in a compromise the various concerns have to be taken on board, while of course respecting the treaties. this european council also served – as will be the case for all european councils – to prepare common positions for the european union ahead of major international events. in this case, our attention focused on the preparation of the g20, the cancún climate change conference and a number of bilateral summits. on the g20, which has of course now taken place, we agreed on the priorities, which were then promoted by the representatives of the union and by the eu member states that are members of the g20. these included securing approval of the basel iii accords on capital requirements and on the reform of the imf. concerning the latter, i would like to emphasise that this landmark reform was made possible by the open and constructive approach by the europeans. we gave up two seats in order to reach the final agreement, thus bearing a large part of the adjustment effort. concerning the question of imbalances in the global economy and exchange rate policy, discussions were tense in the run-up to the g20 meeting. the summit made a right analysis and agreed on a process. we welcome the decisions to establish a set of indicators on imbalances and the assessment that will made in 2011. what is now crucial is to agree on policy conclusions and, if need be, corrective action on the basis of this assessment. on cancún, the european council also prepared the eu position for the negotiations starting at the end of this month. since copenhagen last year, numerous talks have taken place – formal or informal – but they are slow and remain very difficult. cancún will probably only be an intermediate step towards a global framework on tackling climate change. the european union regrets this of course. finally, regarding our bilateral summits, the european council discussed our priorities and strategies for the forthcoming summits, namely those with the united states, russia, ukraine, india and africa. this is extremely useful for president barroso and myself and ensures that on such occasions we are speaking not just for the brussels institutions, but for the 27 as a whole. i intend to make this a regular feature of the european council meetings. colleagues, that concludes my summary of the most recent meeting of the european council, which took place nearly a month ago. i will, in any case, continue my practice of briefing the leaders of your political groups immediately, within a couple of hours after the end of each european council meeting. i am looking forward to hearing your views.
president of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, if a week is a long time in politics, a month can seem an eternity. a lot has happened since the last european council, not least the recent events in ireland. the action intended is a further, crucial step to safeguard the financial stability of ireland, the euro area, and the european union as a whole. the two instruments we set up in may are effective tools that can do the job they are designed to do. ireland has very specific issues to address, and these instruments are able to respond to that. this intervention should now allow the irish economy to get back on the path to sustainable growth, drawing on its fundamental strengths. the past few months have been a challenge. we have come a very long way, but the work is not yet complete. our economic governance is being transformed. the task force chaired by president van rompuy has presented its results, which are very positive. benefiting from significant inputs from the commission, it has managed to achieve broad convergence on the commission’s legislative proposals, and also covered some other very important aspects of economic governance. crucially, stricter fiscal rules and broader economic surveillance – both cornerstones of the commission package – have been preserved. i have stressed many times before the importance of having the new frameworkoperational as soon as possible, so i was pleased that the european councilbacked our idea for a ‘fast track’ approach, and set itself the objective of agreement on the commission’s legislative proposals by summer 2011. it is notable that the questions voiced last september about the commission putting legislative proposals on the table have now turned into a desire to fast-track those proposals. now the normal legislative procedure must run its course over the coming months. i count on the community method to work as well as it has always done, and help us strengthen economic governance in the euro area and in europe. it is my belief that we will end up with tough rules, based on adequate incentives for compliance, semi-automatic implementation and an effective framework to deal with broader macroeconomic imbalances. we need reinforced and rigorous economic governance to achieve stable andsustainable growth, which is critical for the employment and welfare of our citizens. a permanent crisis resolution mechanism for the euro area is an essential piece of this jigsaw. the temporary mechanism currently in force will expire in 2013, so it is vital that something credible, robust, lasting, and grounded in the essential technical realities is put in place by then. that is why the commission has already started its preparatory work on the general features of a future new mechanism for the euro area. this mechanism, which we are preparing in close consultation with the president of the european council, should be seen in the context of the overall effort to reinforce economic governance in the european union and euro area. i would like to make clear that even if the mechanism is funded from national budgets, it will remain a ‘european’ initiative, and will of course be able to draw on the expertise, independence and impartiality of the commission to make it function. the mechanism will have three main components: a macroeconomic adjustment programme, a financing arrangement, and private sector involvement. the latter can take many forms, but first and foremost i want to make clear that, whatever is decided on private sector involvement, it will only apply after 2013. the heads of state and government decided unanimously that treaty change is required to establish this mechanism. when we concluded the lisbon treaty last year, nobody imagined someone would be proposing new changes so soon. we all know that this is never an easy process, and we all understand the risks. that is one of the reasons why i explained – during the european council and even before – that we should not accept a revision of the treaty that calls into question the voting rights of member states. i am happy that this argument was accepted, and that any revision will be a limited – indeed a surgical – one. it also makes sense for us to have as straightforward a process as possible. that is why i would caution against the temptation to start linking this to other, unconnected subjects. all this action is not taking place in a vacuum. the european council, the g20 summit, the eu/us summit in lisbon last weekend: all are staging posts, part of our larger plan to restore europe to stability and growth. we will speak about the g20 summit in the next debate in this house, so let me for now concentrate very briefly on the very important eu/us summit in lisbon. the atmosphere at the summit was intimate, friendly, and focused. together with president van rompuy, we agreed with president obama on the need for a transatlantic agenda for growth and jobs, including regulatoryconvergence and early consultations on issues like competitiveness and global reform. we have tasked the ministers and commissioners with moving this concrete work forward, notably through the transatlantic economic forum. the global economy, the g20 and emerging economies were also very much on the agenda. my point is this: the european union will only be able to achieve its objectives if we activate all policy areas; if we capitalise on the relationship we have with all our key partners; if we use the leverage available to us in an integrated way at all levels – at national, european and global level. one thing is clear: we will have more influence on the outside if we are capable of reaching agreement among ourselves, within the european union. in this respect, i am concerned that some of the more recent positioning has not contributed to the focus and coherence of our joint action. i think that the progress that we have achieved so far on economic governance is an indication that we can, with sufficient political will on all sides, make europe a stronger force in the world for the benefit of our citizens, but for this let us be clear that we need political will and we need a sense of common purpose, not only from the european institutions, but from all our member states. that is an appeal i want to make today: more coherence, more convergence, more common purpose.
dear colleagues, we must go ahead. i will take it into account. let me read you rule 152(1) of the rules of procedure: ‘the president shall call to order any member who disrupts the smooth conduct of the proceedings or whose conduct fails to comply with the relevant provisions of rule 9’. i will ask you, colleague, to apologise to the chamber.
colleagues, we expected something quite different. we do not want our discussion to be disturbed in such a way. i will call you, colleague, to a meeting with me and we must take a decision on the next steps. it is impossible to hold our discussions in such an atmosphere. colleague, as you see, the chamber is protesting very deeply against your behaviour. i shall read article 152(3) in my mother tongue.
i'm interrupting this conversation. if you have any questions, you can come to me. i'd love to talk to you. we're having our discussion together.
mr. chairman, please! the eurozone crisis is a fact. the seriousness of the situation is even shown by the desire to change the provisions of the lisbon treaty, which was adopted with such great resistance. on the one hand, it is understandable that germany and france do not want to pay for the crisis in greece, ireland and perhaps other countries. on the other hand, attention should be drawn to the precedent of the opening of the lisbon treaty. it was designed to improve the way the european union works. apparently, it's the opposite. but if we are forced to change the lisbon treaty, it should not only be about the euro area but also about other delicate institutional mechanisms. many economists argue that the greek crisis, with its european dimension, would not have occurred if the country had kept its own currency, which would then have to be significantly devalued. this proves that national currencies would be more stable for the union than the euro area.
mr president, to start, let me say that long-term conditions of competitiveness in individual member states will differ for years to come. structural causes of imbalances will therefore continue while economic governance will still be rather weak as a process in the making. in this context, it is of the utmost importance that the commission urgently tests, with the first annual growth survey at the launch of the european semester 2011, as many elements of new economic governance as possible, in particular the relevance of the scoreboard and its operational ability. second, i understand that a system of fully automatic sanctions would require a treaty change and the proposed system can take us only as far as we can go within the confines of the treaty. that is why i trust that the commission and the council will do their utmost to avoid additional stages in the treatment that would unnecessarily delay the procedure. third, the eu’s economic health is not a simple sum of national situations. additionally, as the system is based on identifying individual member states who do not behave, fixing their poor behaviour can have negative externalities. in particular, the treatment of imbalances can have an impact on other member states of the euro zone and the rest of the union. these potential effects should be accounted for in individual treatments so that the economic health of the union as a whole improves. last, i understand that a complete and in-depth impact assessment of the economic governance blueprint would require time we do not have. what helps here is that over the last two years the commission has acquired substantial and in-depth knowledge and understanding of the 27 economies, so i would like to ask for two actions now. ensure comparability of all elements and relations between internal and external imbalances. (the president cut off the speaker).
mr. chairman, please! it is essential for the effective protection of public health that patients have wide access to high-quality information on medicinal products. harmonisation of legislation in this area will ensure a high level of awareness among european patients and will contribute to a level playing field in health across the member states. at the same time, the specification of the rules will avoid pharmaceutical companies from unfairly promoting their own products as part of their obligation to provide patients with access to information. at present, this practice is not sufficiently controlled. it is also necessary to introduce detailed rules on pharmaceutical products and to enforce their implementation effectively in all member states. i voted yes.
mr. chairman, please! the situation in which unfair competition floods the european market with counterfeit goods from all over the world is unfair and obviously unacceptable. i also wanted to point out that the wording of the monitoring obligation for isps is not very clear. it's against the privacy laws and it's an attempt at censorship. it also works against e-business, which is the part of the economy that we want to grow very dynamically with more and more innovative solutions, but we also impose more and more restrictions. today's final decisions make that a little better.
in writing. - the republic of moldova is one of the poorest countries in europe. studies show that the vast majority of the country's population lives in extreme poverty. internal reforms that could help the economy are often blocked by political or national conflicts. the european union should therefore support the country and help it to improve its situation in terms of stability, security and prosperity. the european policy could solve the constitutional problem facing the republic of moldova, which in turn could lead to further positive changes. the republic of moldova expresses its willingness to participate in the european neighbourhood policy programmes, as evidenced by its financial contributions. the european union should be even more committed to supporting such countries, and it is therefore entirely appropriate to deepen cooperation with the republic of moldova.
in writing. − poland is one of the largest producers of rtv/agd equipment in europe. it is also one of the countries where sales of this type of equipment are increasing year by year. technological developments and the increase in demand for such goods have led to an increase in the amount of so-called 'electronic waste', the problem of its disposal and the impact of this process on environmental pollution. therefore, the new rohs provisions are of great importance to manufacturers of this type of equipment. they are obliged to eliminate harmful substances and to raise safety standards in everyday equipment. this is also good news for consumers, as the new rules introduce an obligation to use substances that are safe for health and the environment for all electrical equipment manufacturers across the european union.
in writing. − the continuously growing production of rtv and agd equipment is a consequence of the development of modern technologies and the increase in demand for these types of products. as consumers, we expect these devices to be functional and ergonomic, but above all we should expect them to meet the relevant standards, regulating safety standards for both the user and the environment. we replace old equipment with new ones, producing staggering amounts of waste, and the hazardous substances used to produce them cause irreversible damage to the ecosystem. it is therefore essential to introduce legislation that limits the use of harmful compounds in the production of equipment that goes under our roofs and at the same time supports manufacturers in implementing innovative, environmentally friendly solutions.
in writing. - in today's vote i supported a document on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. the fact that our regulation is a major problem has recently been demonstrated when several million households in the european union have replaced their crt cinema televisions with modern lcd panels. today, these same farms are considering switching from lcd tvs to led lcd tvs. experts point out that used electrical and electronic equipment is the fastest growing waste stream. in addition, the scientific unit öko-institut has demonstrated, on the basis of the analyses carried out, the negative environmental and human health effects of pcw and fluorinated flame retardants. i believe that the document adopted today will help to reduce the amount of these types of dangerous substances.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta) because i believe that in the fight against piracy, there is a need to define common rules for the enforcement of intellectual property rights. the problem of counterfeiting, the unauthorized use of someone else's intellectual property, is still widespread. it seems particularly difficult for intangible assets, such as musical works, literary works, or patents. the acta will be a good tool to create a common legal platform to fight counterfeiting and piracy.
colleagues, let me introduce, in a few words, our lex signing of the financial supervisory package. this will be done in a few minutes. this package will constitute our financial supervisory activities adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure. today we are signing into law a european systemic risk board which will be responsible for the oversight of the financial system within the union and will contribute to the smooth functioning of the internal market. secondly, we are also establishing three other european supervisory authorities to protect the public interest. they will monitor banks, securities and markets, as well as insurance and occupational pensions. finally, we are signing an omnibus directive which amends a whole set of 11 directives in order to bring them into line with the european system of financial supervision and the treaty of lisbon. an enormous effort has been made and there has been great cooperation, i found, between the european institutions. the procedure was very fast and effective. successive presidencies, the spanish and the belgian, were very active, and i thank them for their cooperation. the commission was very active and cooperation was very close. to the members of the european parliament, staying in this chamber while we go and sign, and to the commissioner i say: it is a great deal. i thank the commission, which was so active all the time in the preparatory meetings and all the discussions, for its engagement. but our work of course is not finished. the economic governance package we are shortly debating will be very important as well. we know well that it is under way in our legislative procedure and we hope we will be ready as quickly as possible. what can i say in conclusion? the whole package which we are signing today will start to apply in the european union from 1 january 2011, so very soon. this is very important information for all of us, for the markets and for our citizens, because it is intended to help our citizens. we shall now go and sign the legislative package. (the president signs the acts, together with olivier chastel (president-in-office of the council), michel barnier (member of the commission), josé manuel garcía-margallo y marfil (rapporteur), sylvie goulard (rapporteur), antolín sánchez presedo (rapporteur) and peter skinner (rapporteur))
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. we have been discussing a lot lately about the institutional changes that have resulted from the lisbon treaty, whether it be the external action service or the budgetary procedures, but the lisbon treaty also applies to eu policies. today we are debating the commission's first energy strategy since lisbon for the period 2011-2020. it should be stressed that both it and the parliament's report reflect the spirit of the lisbon treaty, which expresses energy solidarity and concern for security and energy supply. the commission's strategy and the parliament's report also emphasise the need to strengthen energy policy and europeanise it. there are steps we can take to accomplish this. first, we must urgently implement the current european energy legislation in the member states. we therefore fully support the commission in taking strong action against governments and companies that are neglecting their efforts in this area. secondly, the common energy market must function well if our common objectives are to be achieved. this also applies to the european renewable energy market, which needs to be built. to achieve our objectives, it is therefore necessary to extend and modernise the pan-european and cross-border energy infrastructure. this is often opposed by the monopolists and the governments that protect them. however, without a pan-european network, the key objectives of the european union will not be achieved. there are two main obstacles to overcome: administrative and financial. in administrative matters, we need first of all to establish clear priorities and criteria for selecting key projects. without these criteria and clear rules, the choice of project will generate a lot of conflict and friction, and will arouse suspicion instead of hope. at national level, regulatory action is necessary, in particular in the context of cross-border projects. now let's move on to the most important issue of infrastructure financing. we know that the approval of the budget for next year is currently fraught with tensions, but even greater tensions will be felt over the financial perspective beyond 2013. however, the expenditure we plan must reflect the political objectives of the european union, namely the energy security of its citizens. we're also going to have to find new ways for companies and banks to invest their own money. we're talking about it in the report. energy policy is increasingly linked to the european union's foreign policy. our relations with external energy partners should be guided by the rules of europe's internal market. foreign companies entering the european market must operate in a transparent and lawful manner, and be managed on the basis of transparent agreements. this applies to pipelines that will be built in the future as well as those that are currently being built. i'm not going to let you get away with this. i appreciate the help you've given poland in our negotiations with russia over the yamal gas pipeline. however, i would like to see similar actions taken with regard to other pipelines, including nord stream. i would like to stress that transparency must be applied to all current and future projects, not just to some. in conclusion, mr president, the union needs a long-term vision for energy policy. we need a european energy community. if the commission wants to accelerate action by businesses and member states, it must itself be credible and actually implement this very good strategy and the infrastructure package. in the future, the european parliament will want to monitor the implementation of this strategy. it is to shape reality, not to be just a wishful thinking. finally, it is very important that member states approach the objectives set out in the european commission's strategy and in my report. will they be willing to compromise their national interests for the common european good? will they oppose the activities of big business and take into account the safety and welfare of consumers? we as parliamentarians insist on it. congratulations on your energy strategy for the next 10 years.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i naturally join in thanking the rapporteur for her very good cooperation in preparing this very difficult report. the report highlights all the key challenges facing european energy policy. i think that the union must first of all deal with the anti-market clauses in agreements with third countries. that's one of the biggest obstacles. in particular, russia imposes restrictions on access to gas pipelines and prohibits re-exports, limiting the ownership of gas already purchased by european companies. that was the case with the polish contract, which commissioner oettinger was well aware of. the point of russian policy is to maintain a monopoly on the gas market for as long as possible. this monopoly of gazprom in central europe is maintained at the expense of the common market, at the expense of competition, and finally at the expense of consumer rights. in such cases, the union must respond very strongly, not excluding the diplomatic element and the role of the high representative for foreign affairs. otherwise, our reaction will simply be asymmetric. eu diplomacy in general should give more weight to raw materials issues. this is a growing issue and a major challenge for our services, given the union's trade policy competence. we should certainly give our full support in our energy policy to modern technologies, to liquefied gas installations, to geothermal energy, to shale gas. until we can ensure the security and diversification of our gas supply, we cannot afford to move too quickly away from coal. otherwise we will only increase our dependence on raw materials, especially in central europe, where coal is still very important. and the last thing i think is worth noting is an institutional problem. all these issues, which are mentioned in mrs kolarska-bobińska's report, were very poorly taken into account in the european commission's communication, which was apparently drawn up without taking parliament's position into account. it's a very bad coincidence, this trial went very badly. i don't think we should do this.
mr. chairman, please! energy accounts for about 40% of production costs, while labour accounts for only 15%, but the production of raw materials also requires energy. energy will therefore be the key to economic competitiveness. the dogma of influencing the global climate and launching a so-called carbon-free economy is nonsense. the 'binding carbon targets' are examples of socially and economically irresponsible proposals, as is the ccs technology imposed on coal-fired power plants, and why not on other fuels? why is efficiency not the engine of progress? i warn you against the public outcry over the link to energy poverty. in the new eu countries, energy accounts for about 40% of household expenditure. i also warn against the loss of energy security due to the imposed regulations, especially the climate and energy package. and one more thing: why can't countries, like the energy mix, decide how to reduce co2 in their own countries?
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are taking up the debate here, and if i take the main points of your speeches, we have a broad energy mix in the european union, in the member states and also in parliament. i've heard everything from 100 percent renewable energy to fusion and nuclear power and coal. so the exciting question will be: do we agree on a long-term strategy? will we get a consensus in europe? and if so, for what? we are currently working on the strategy, which includes the three objectives of 20% renewable energy, 20% co2 reduction and 20% efficiency. that's the strategy for the new decade. right, we need a long-term strategy. this will bring the road map that we will present to you next spring as a rough draft, with which we will go through the next 40 years with you and the member states next year, and deliver the forecasts for energy demand, the energy mix, environmental targets and security of supply for four decades. it's not an easy event. let us imagine that we are in 1970, before the oil crisis, before the fall of the wall, with only a few member states, and that we have to use the know-how of 1970 to illuminate the year 2010 and the energy present of today. we would have been so overrated. do we know what the technological possibilities are going to be in the next 40 years? what new political interests will the member states have? but i'm still advocating for the company to try road map 2050. the question then was asked why we need binding co2 reduction targets and not the member states. i'll take 20% of the co2 and 30% if we find other partners worldwide. this is a decision of the parliament to which you belong and of the council, and i am carrying it out. if you want something else, just tell me. i just think that if there were no binding targets, the member states would not adhere to them. if we do not have binding targets, member states will do less and do nothing more, especially in difficult economic times. the subject of energy efficiency was raised. in our strategy, we're just creating the headlines. the financial corridor will be followed by the concrete preparation, instruments and measures in the spring, when we will have to present the energy efficiency strategy which is currently being discussed with you. questions were asked on the subject of the internal market. please trust me and my colleague almunia. we will ensure full compliance with the second and third internal market packages, deal with infringement procedures and do everything we can to ensure that in the next five years we have a competitive and transparent internal market for gas and electricity. we have given advice to the member states in recent weeks. the polish government in the jamal case, the bulgarian government in the south stream case and the gas supply to bulgaria. in fact, member states are not always in a position or willing to ensure that their bilateral agreements comply with the rules of the internal market. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. there are also large member states where the internal market is not working. there's a country not far from here, maybe it's even the country we're in right now. i am therefore asking my french colleagues: are you prepared to work with me to ensure that a single market is created in france and in other countries? i need your support, not nationally, but europeally. the decision on nabucco, tap or itgi will, i believe, be taken in the first quarter of next year in connection with the southern corridor. but gas infrastructure also requires that we discuss the question: how much gas do we need for heating and conversion over the next few decades? at present, it is 500 billion cubic meters a year. is this going to be less or more? this will also be a topic of the road map 2050. then mr rohde mentioned the example of china. china is always worth comparing, but china is not a role model for me. you're right, china is investing heavily in wind energy. that's right, i did. but you didn't mention that china is currently buying up the world's coal and investing much more in coal. last year, china invested more in renewable energy than germany. that's right, i did. nevertheless, the share of renewable energy in china is decreasing because of much more investment in nuclear power and coal. and china calls nuclear power a renewable energy. i'm not taking credit for that. so a comparison with china is important. but i strongly advise against the chinese model for our european work. thank you again. i also need you on the european budget. it was called for more to be done, more money to be spent on research and infrastructure. i'm all in on it. i'll take every euro you give me. but the budget is decided by the council and the parliament. i hope that we will make a good proposal, and that you will support it, based on our good experience with the set plan, with energy research funds and with the infrastructure stimulus programme, so that in the next decade there will be sufficient european funds with added value for corresponding european actions in the areas of infrastructure and research. in this sense, we certainly have a good chance of working together.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? as you can see, the topics and opinions in the european parliament are very diverse and varied. that is why this report is the result of a compromise we have sought. i think it's very good because we've built a consensus. i would like to thank my shadow rapporteurs very much for the very fact that we have built this consensus in such a sympathetic way - mrs ulvskog, mr rohde, mr turmes, mr szymański and others. i would also like to thank very much mrs pilar del castillo for her cooperation, help and support, mrs edin toth of the ppe for her help and mr andrew hillman, also the commissioner and the commission staff who answered my many questions and responded to my various ideas. today in brussels, there is a battle between those who want intergovernmentalism and those who want solidarity. the european parliament, as well as the commission, must ensure that solidarity prevails over individual national interests at future european council meetings. we've reached a consensus. we have a strategy and, as mr turmes said, we must therefore implement it, implement it and implement it again, protecting against various particular interests.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! energy is one of the most important challenges facing the world today. the european union has long been committed to energy production using low-carbon technologies. the rapporteur's recognition of this as one of the strategic objectives is not surprising and has my full support. the second strategic objective to guarantee energy security for all countries also has my full support. the rapporteur links this objective to the creation of a low-carbon economy. this case is of particular importance for poland. it's no secret that poland's energy security is based on coal. therefore, strong eu financial support is needed to achieve this effectively. poland and many other countries recognise the need to build a low-carbon economy, but are unable to achieve this without european help. finally, i would like to welcome the rapporteur's recognition of the provision of affordable energy to citizens as one of the strategic objectives of the new energy strategy for europe. in accepting the three main strategic objectives of the new energy strategy for europe, i would like to express my strong support for the project 'a new energy strategy for europe 2011-2020'. thank you very much. thank you.
in writing. two important points are still not strongly addressed in the draft presented. first, financial support from the european union budget for the search for alternative sources of raw materials, such as shale gas. he's already made the united states energy independent. scientists and geologists report that the european union is facing a similar prospect of energy independence. the commission has also proposed that the commission should provide a detailed analysis of the measures taken to ensure that the union's policy is consistent with the objectives of the union's policy on the environment. it is also important to provide financial support to institutions developing gas extraction and transport technologies, including the use of co2 in the shale fracturing process. the second issue is the lack of hard references to the implementation of specific investments in fuel transmission projects. it's another document that has nothing to do with strategy. the european parliament must finally identify projects that are important for its energy security and how they will be financed. despite declarations in both the eastern partnership and the black sea synergy program, the nabucco gas pipeline connecting the asian field to european customers is still on hold. the strategy also lacks references to the potential for exploiting deposits in africa and the arctic. the final issue that is not addressed is the lack of a clear definition of the term 'european union energy security'. what does it mean? is it intended to cover the community as a whole or the security of supply situation of the individual member states which make up the european union today?
mr. chairman, please! the fight against global warming has undoubtedly become one of the european union's most important objectives. a rational policy to reduce carbon dioxide and greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere appears to be an important factor. the draft eu resolution, before the cancún summit, included a significant reduction of co2 by more than 20% among eu countries. the union does not seem to be looking at the serious consequences for the economies of its member states when it launches this kind of policy. with such a large reduction on the union side, the community's position on reducing emissions in the united states or in asian countries is very soft. this is a big mistake. today, when europe is experiencing economic recession, we should focus more on strengthening the community economy rather than burdening it with additional costs. it's not the european union countries that are the main emitters, but the fast-growing economies of developing countries like china and india that are not going to cut their emissions. industrial production and the jobs it creates can therefore be moved outside the european union. our economy will weaken, and our emissions will not decrease, but increase. this policy is going nowhere. so we need to rethink this kind of policy in the fight against global warming.
mr president, commissioner, minister, i have to ask you to stop this. the adoption of a resolution at the cop 16 in mexico is the first step in a global discussion. it's a very difficult compromise for all countries. we should not expect immediate success. we must make a proposal that goes as far as possible, but that brings together as many countries as possible at this conference. the main objective of this resolution is to reach a compromise to fight climate change, to fight global warming. if we want to achieve this goal, we need to get the biggest countries, the biggest emitters. these countries include the united states and china. we need to engage them in a debate and ask them to consider their economic options. we should also focus on achieving these objectives, which we have already set out in the european union's environmental package. some of my colleagues are talking about a modest package that talks about reducing greenhouse gases by 20%. let's get this first step done, and then we can talk about the next one. the commitments that all countries can make are also important. if we write down these commitments again, which no one will fulfill, they will be dead notes only on paper. at the same time, we need to focus our attention on those countries that have very low economic development and underdeveloped economies. and our goal is to get money absolutely to those poorest countries. they should have access to union money. on behalf of all my colleagues, i think we'll all be keeping our fingers crossed for you, commissioner. i, too, declare my far-reaching assistance in the negotiations.
mr. chairman, please! my colleagues have repeatedly stressed the need for a unified internal position on climate policy. but i would like to point out that at the upcoming climate conference, we should also take advantage of our greatest asset, which, as we found out last year, is also our greatest weakness. i mean multi-level negotiations, trying to understand the partners' reasoning, and also skillfully seeking a satisfactory compromise. let's try to bring this eu know-how into climate policy. the isolation that the commissioner mentioned depends on the involvement of the united states, china, brazil, russia or india. without it, the union's actions will be meaningless. and it should be clear that if emerging economies want to play a greater international role, they must also make greater commitments. the bric countries cannot go on endlessly invoking the backwardness of civilization to justify their disagreement with radical climate action. with more power comes more responsibility.
in writing. the climate negotiations in cancún start as soon as next week. the eu has adopted ambitious plans for emission reduction, financing, forestry and technology transfer. on the one hand, the urgency of the climate negotiations is important, but this cannot overshadow the importance of the substantive decisions to be taken at the conference. the disappointing outcome of the copenhagen climate summit, which failed to deliver any major concrete decisions, should also be taken into account. the european union should therefore contribute to restoring confidence in international climate change negotiations at cop16. this debate has gone on long enough. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the agreement to include the following areas:
president of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i am very grateful to you for giving me the opportunity to speak about the forthcoming eu-africa summit, which i know is of interest to many of you. the first summit, held in cairo in 2000, launched the process of continental cooperation, while the second, held in lisbon in 2007, set out the new agenda for eu-africa relations. the third, tripoli, should consolidate our strategic partnership and finally produce concrete results. the african union's leading role in peace and security matters is the most important. in sudan, the african union was the first to deploy a peacekeeping mission. in darfur, the african union is playing a leading global political role through the panel chaired by mr mbeki. the recent progress in the negotiation of a north-south framework agreement is an important step towards a peaceful transition. the ongoing deployment of the eu election observation mission also clearly underlines our determination to help ensure a peaceful transition in sudan. in somalia, amisom, the african union peacekeeping mission, is the only actor on the ground in mogadishu. with regard to coups d'état, the strict zero tolerance standard applied by the african union provides protection and plays a key role in the restoration of constitutional order. the african union has become the standard-setting body not only in this area, but also in political governance, on the african continent and in the process of economic integration. it provides the policy framework for its member states and regional economic communities to promote intra-african trade and transnational infrastructure. the entire portfolio of the new partnership for africa's development, including its socio-economic development agenda, is now fully integrated into the african union. this internal process goes hand in hand with reforms implemented in international governance structures with regard to african representation. the african union is well placed to coordinate african positions in international fora. on climate change, for example, the ethiopian prime minister is mandated by the african union to speak on africa's behalf on the international stage. for the european union, the african union has become indispensable in many cases where we need african solutions and contributions, whether it be peacekeeping, migration, drug trafficking, climate change or the international criminal court. africa also offers opportunities which the union should exploit, such as cooperation in the field of energy relations, the arms trade treaty, the opportunities offered by the private sector, to name but a few. a particular challenge in the context of european union-african union cooperation is obviously linked to the international criminal court. the african partners have contributed to its creation and their cooperation remains essential for this policy objective of paramount importance to the european union. however, they criticised the way the case of sudanese president bashir was handled and the fact that the security council did not initiate a suspension procedure, which led the african union to distance itself from the court. on the union side, we are of course fully in favour of the independence of the court and we can only rely on the security council for a possible suspension procedure. at the next summit we will express our views very clearly, knowing full well that this summit will probably not change the positions of the african union which are so clearly established. europe remains africa's most important partner. political, economic, institutional and development cooperation always exceeds that of any other regional partnership or relationship with a national government. but the union should not underestimate the rapid growth in participation by emerging partners. the union should welcome this new context, but as it affects eu-africa relations, it also calls for a refocus on recognised assets and added value, better coordination and priority to be given to win-win situations. for the union, we are in an institutional situation unparalleled anywhere else in the world: two unions that aim at regional integration and want to contribute to the advent of a multilateral system of global governance. the african union looks with interest to the creation of the new institutions established under the lisbon treaty. a reassured africa, courted by multiple partners offering for the first time in a long time promising growth prospects, will obviously want to be treated as an equal. the preparations for the summit are therefore in full swing. the discussions with the libyan hosts and the african union counterparts were useful. a large number of european and african leaders have confirmed their participation at the highest level. the main discussions at the summit will focus on the summit's central theme of investment, economic growth and job creation, as well as on various related sub-themes. we hope that these discussions will lead to concrete results. the participants in the ministerial political dialogue in malawi were able to finalize the summit communiqué, the tripoli declaration and the joint action plan for 2011-13. the latter provides a solid basis for our future work by ensuring a good balance between traditional development priorities infrastructure, millennium development goals policy themes peace and security, democratic governance and human rights, migration, mobility, jobs and promising new areas of cooperation such as renewable energy, climate change, information technology, space, to name a few. finally, i would like to say on behalf of president van rompuy that i welcome the positive participation of the european parliament in the discussions on the future of relations between africa and the european union and i welcome the meeting between the european parliament and the pan-african parliament, which will take place in tripoli on 27 november, just before this summit. this meeting will provide an excellent opportunity to make substantive recommendations on the plenary debate to be held at the summit. i also welcome the fact that this debate is taking place today and i look forward to your views.
member of the commission. − madam president, it is true that achieving the millennium development goals and overcoming poverty remain at the heart of europe’s partnership with africa. at the same time, our relations go far beyond that. the cooperation opportunities of the two continents are enormous. earlier this month, the commission presented proposals on how to consolidate our relationship by adding strength to it and focusing on inclusive and sustainable growth in the long term. the summit in tripoli will be an excellent occasion to discuss ways of improving our cooperation in this respect. the commission believes that there is a need to enhance political and policy dialogue beyond traditional development scenarios. the eu and africa must cooperate bilaterally and also work together on the international stage to promote our shared interest: tackling climate change, making progress towards the mdgs and promoting peace and security, democratic governance and human rights. this aim is to ensure that both sides can jointly address the global challenges that will dominate the summit agenda and prepare the ground for a more effective and mutually-beneficial cooperation. given the summit’s focus on investment, growth and job creation, we also need to agree on how to work together to overcome the repercussions of the economic and financial crisis. this will notably require promoting a more business- and investment-friendly environment. it will be the occasion to look into promising areas such as renewable energies, information and communication technologies, science and others. these are the areas where african demands are huge and where, at the same time, europe has a lot to offer. we can also build on joint successes so far: peace and security, and regional integration. this ambitious agenda requires building on the success of the lisbon summit in 2007 and on the results achieved since then by the joint africa-eu strategy and its first action plan. drawing from the lessons learned, the communication also calls for both sides to do more to overcome the current fragmentation of policy frameworks and financial instruments. better synergies between eu policies, notably with sub-saharan africa and the mediterranean region, should be found to ensure real coherence and increased effectiveness and visibility. better internal coordination with member states and the active involvement of all stakeholders – parliament, civil society, the private sector – are also needed. in order to deliver better results, the action plan for 2011-2013 should give priority to activities that have a clear regional, continental or global added value. the summit will be an excellent opportunity to plot our way forward. it will also require changes on the european side, and that will require us to improve the way the eu steers its relations with africa. i believe we will need to continue this debate after the summit, but i am very much looking forward to the debate today so that we will be well prepared for the summit.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. the common challenges facing africa and the european union are clear and unambiguous. minister chastel and commissioner piebalgs have spoken about this. no doubt we can include the elimination of poverty, peace and security, democracy and human rights, global governance and climate change. we also have specific goals set at the international level - the millennium development goals. i agree with commissioner piebalgs that the key to development cooperation and the future of africa will be to achieve the millennium development goals. we have also set out some additional objectives which are very important for the eu-africa relationship. these are: strengthening good political governance and the efficient, fair and sustainable management of natural and economic resources. we hope that the eu-africa partnership and the joint strategies and actions will produce results. for example, we hope that the economic growth we see in many african countries will be conducive to social inclusion, that it will reduce poverty and social inequality. that is why we want to create the conditions for investment, for trade and, consequently, for the creation of new jobs. we also hope that this development will be sustainable, that is, that it will lead to the construction of an efficient, green and competitive economy. another aspect that will probably be strongly emphasised at the summit is africa's vast untapped renewable energy potential, including hydro, solar, wind, geothermal and biomass. this is what constitutes a potential that has not yet been fully exploited and, like other african potentials, does not always serve the good of the people. focusing on good governance and harnessing this potential will, or can, lead to qualitative change.
madam president! the implementation of the millennium development goals is strategically placed in the new joint strategy implementation plan for the african union. the basic problem is to reduce the poverty that has been deepened by the crisis. nearly 30 percent of the world's population live in extreme poverty, on less than $1.25 a day. over a hundred million people lack access to safe water. nearly 80 people die of hunger every minute, including 60 children. that's 40 million a year, a big european country. africa, especially sub-saharan africa, is the hardest hit. this requires, in addition to strategic action, an increase in immediate assistance. the dying can't wait. the eu is the largest donor of development aid. we're responsible for more than half of the official funding. we should be proud of that. we need to step up and make aid to africa more effective. i therefore support the commission's plans to deepen development cooperation based on sustainable growth and combating social exclusion.
madam president! western sahara is at a crossroads today. the recent actions of the moroccan government cannot be ignored by us. there are conflicting reports as to what events actually took place at the camp near the town of al-ujun. however, the fact that 15,000 people were displaced is not to be ignored, and this is just one example of human rights violations dating back to 1975. we - the members of the european parliament - must take a closer look at the history of the region, the atrocities that the sahrawi people have experienced, and strengthen the policies that are being pursued to resolve this conflict and problem. some member states have had the opportunity to address these problems through cooperation with the un, but have failed to do so. the appropriate recommendations needed to hold morocco accountable have not been developed. the un security forces are limited in their activities in western sahara and should be able to provide full control and humanitarian assistance. in addition, morocco has not lifted the blockade on free access to the region for journalists and international observers. one un observer rightly concluded that focusing attention on this region of africa could save lives and protect saharians from morocco's policy of extermination. amnesty international is calling for an independent investigation into the violence. it's a good idea. it's the right thing to do. it is not known today how many people were killed, seriously injured or simply missing in action in morocco. finally, i would like to call on our house to respond in a concrete way, to put an end to the current slow pace of international diplomacy and to work out a solution that will protect the sahrawis from further atrocities.
madam president! i would like to stress very strongly that the situation in western sahara is a matter of concern to us, and rightly so. we in this room know very well that the conflict that has been going on there for many, many years can have territorial consequences far beyond that. there are people out there with no hope, there are people out there who are both repressed and humiliated. in such a situation, often these humiliated people can provide a natural base for the terrorist. they may be vulnerable to terrorist indoctrination, and western sahara may become a place of exporting terrorism. the european union should therefore condemn all breaches of the law, but i think that more effort should be made to help the un forces to be even more effective in ensuring security there, in this area.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it has been a fascinating few weeks of debate on ukraine in the european parliament. i think that's very good. in ukraine, the results of our discussions are followed with great interest, more than in many countries of the european union. so let's treat our resolution as a letter, not to one party or another, but as a letter to the ukrainians, in which we tell them sincerely that we are watching with interest what is happening, as neighbors who are ready to open the doors to ukraine, who are ready to meet with the citizens of ukraine. thank you so much for those wonderful words to rebecca harms, who always has a great sense of what needs to be said at a time like this. let's be honest about the choices that we didn't like. their standard in many elements left much to be desired. we have not been able to maintain this good trend from the previous elections, but let's also say that there is still a chance for ukraine and that we want to help it. so let's say that there is something good happening there and that not only in the economic sphere, in the economic sphere, but also in the political sphere and above all for every ukrainian, the door to europe is open and it is good that such a signal came this week from the eu-ukraine summit. it's a good coincidence that we're talking today about this resolution not being for one party or the other in ukraine. it is for the ukrainians and we accept it in solidarity.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i will start with mr severn, who said a very important thing, which is that we should try to think about what we can do for ukraine, not what the ukrainians can do for us. i thank mr. severin for that, because that is our job. yeah, this election didn't go the way we wanted it to. things happened there that shouldn't have happened. but mrs harms is right when she says that our job is not to look at one party or the other, but to see what the ukrainians want and what we want. because ukraine's integration into european structures, let's be clear, membership in the european union, is in the interest of the european union and of the ukrainians themselves. i think that screwing up the ukrainian standards is a little unfair. because there are those in this room who are very gracious to their strategic partners on human rights, freedom of speech, freedom of the press. but they're screwing up and raising the bar with our friends in the ukraine. you gotta keep your head down here. the ukrainians deserve our cooperation, our words, and that is - as mr swoboda said - whether it is one camp or the other. just like here, sometimes, certain divisions disappear because there's a case. the eu and ukraine are working closely together on this issue.
mr. chairman, please! this week is a good week for eu-ukraine relations. first, at the summit on monday, we jointly developed a roadmap for visa liberalisation. then, tomorrow, we will vote on what i think is a good resolution of the european parliament, which opens up possibilities for further cooperation, for deepening the cooperation of the european union with ukraine. it opens up this possibility and closes off a very important debate which has been taking place in the european parliament on this subject. and it's good that we've worked out a compromise, that we speak with one voice. we are speaking with one voice not to the various political groups in ukraine, not to the ruling group of president yanukovych or to the opposition of mrs tymoshenko, but above all to the ukrainians themselves. we want ukraine to reform itself in such a way that in the future it can become part of the european union. this is extremely important. it's important to judge the ukrainian government's actions on their merits, on what they will do. well, it has to be said that this is, first of all, the first government that has started to reform in many years, working with the international monetary fund. and today we can see that these reforms have a positive effect on the economy, we can clearly see that this period of stagnation in ukraine, which has been in recent years, has a chance to end. on the other hand, ukraine itself says it wants to become part of the european union, so it gives us the right to judge it according to european standards. hence, of course, we have to take up these issues of irregularities that took place during the last election.
mr. chairman, please! we're talking in a different atmosphere than we were a month ago. i'm not feeling it. the words we wrote in the draft resolution are more in line with reality. it is good that parliament is trying to speak together, even though these words are sometimes awkward and sometimes very incompetent. what's this resolution about? it's really about the quality of democracy, about how much the european parliament cares about the quality of democracy in ukraine. this resolution is addressed to the 'blue' and 'orange' groups. in ukraine for the last 5 years, it was like this: orange won, then blue won, then orange won again, and now blue rules. i would like the blue team - president yanukovych, prime minister azarov, the party of regions - to hear from this house that they are responsible for respecting the great legacy of the maidan, the great legacy of what several million people demanded on the maidan a few years ago. they answer because they're the ones who wield power. i also want to hear these words from yulia tymoshenko, who is responsible for the image of the opposition. i want the great leader of the opposition yulia tymoshenko to understand that being in the opposition is not enough to just demand power. you have to have an alternative for the country, show it to the people and kidnap people to understand it. if the blue and the orange understand that they are here and there, and that ukraine really needs the same care, the same imagination and the same courage, then we will have a great success because we have helped them in this work. to the czech ambassador, mr. ambassador, it is not viktor klichko, but vitaly klichko who is beating up the americans in the german rings. there are two twigs. it's a testament to the greatness of a country that has produced two boxers like you.
mr. chairman, please! i don't want to talk about what we have to do for ukraine, what ukraine has to do for us, i want to talk about what ukraine has to do for itself, because its fate is really in its hands. on the one hand, ukraine declares its desire to integrate with the european union, but on the other hand, we continue to receive numerous signals about the violation of civil liberties in this country. in recent days, an appeal has reached the european parliament from journalists from the ukrainian tvi station, who complain of political pressure and constant surveillance. the same is true of commercial channel 5. on the other hand, independent analytical centres in ukraine recently reported that out of 69 planned reforms, 4 have been implemented. in the european parliament, some meps felt during recent debates that by stigmatising undemocratic behaviour, they were discouraging both the european commission and the ukrainian authorities from bringing ukraine closer to the european union. so it is better not to condemn the ukrainian authorities, but to encourage them to reform. i believe that the european parliament should be the guardian of democratic values and the guardian of the rule of law. the real policy, the policy of pressure, incentives and negotiations should be pursued by governments, while the european parliament should denounce the violation of democratic freedoms and urge the european commission to use the tools available to the union, namely the democracy promotion programme, to this end. i am pleased that the outcome of the eu-ukraine summit on monday is the signing of a protocol which will give ukraine access to certain eu programmes and that action is being taken to abolish visas. but progress on reform and democracy is in ukraine's hands.
mr. chairman, please! during the october plenary session, commissioner füle stressed that relations with ukraine should be seen through the lens of three events, namely the eu-ukraine ministerial meeting, the local elections and the eu-ukraine summit. my particular concern is the local government elections which i had the opportunity to observe with mr kowal. unfortunately, the introduction of changes to the electoral law three months before the elections or the repeal of the 2004 constitution may suggest that ukrainian citizens lack a sense of security and legal stability. moreover, the irregularities that occurred during the elections themselves may raise doubts about the maintenance of democratic standards. the fight against corruption and the improvement of transparency in public administration should also be an important element of reform. however, i would like to express the hope that the resolution will be an incentive for ukraine to continue on the path of economic and institutional reforms that it has already begun.
in writing. the complexity of the situation in our eastern neighbour is shown by the very intense discussion that has recently taken place in this house. it is certain that the irregularities we witnessed before and after the last local elections cannot be brought to the agenda. because it means that ukraine is still far from what we consider to be the european standard when it comes to political culture. however, the positive changes taking place in the country cannot be overlooked, in particular the efforts made to promote economic reforms, as confirmed by the recent eu-ukraine summit. this is the compromise that parliament should adopt.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me assure you that if ever i were to run the 100 metres, it would take me at least 15 seconds, so there is no major problem with me – at least not in that respect. first i would like to thank the rapporteurs and the inta committee for these reports, which raise important issues concerning the contribution of the european union’s trade policy towards the achievement of some of the fundamental objectives of public policy: respect for human rights, the pursuit of economic welfare and social justice, the achievement of sustainable growth and respect for the environment and particularly the climate system. you will understand that, in the short time i have at my disposal today, it is impossible to go into the details of each one. but allow me to make a few general considerations. the three reports have many points in common. they all address policy coherence and, more particularly, the need for trade policy to be conducted in the framework of the eu’s overall objectives, in particular its economic, social and environmental objectives. i could not agree more with the goal of fully using all the instruments at our disposal to achieve these aims. at the same time, it should be stressed that effective action must rely on those instruments that are most suitable to address each issue. i see trade policy as one of the key factors in promoting and safeguarding the european union’s social model, its values and its principles, and i am aware that there are high expectations in this respect. but we must bear in mind that not all problems can necessarily be solved through trade policy. other policies may offer key elements or even better options for effective solutions. we must also be aware that balancing different interests is at the core of political action. so there will always be choices to be made. challenges will also be different, depending on whether we are considering autonomous instruments such as gsp, bilateral agreements or multilateral agreements. ms saïfi’s report on human rights, social and environmental standards in trade agreements recognises that each of those dimensions offers different possibilities. in general, international cooperation has the potential to trigger more effective action. on the other hand, it takes two to tango. we have to take account of what is acceptable to our trade partners – and at what price. especially when it comes to multilateral settings, achieving consensus can become very hard. the eu has a general interest in improving international governance, including through increased coherence between actions in different fora: the wto, the ilo, the international climate negotiations, and so on. the three reports outline several possible directions of work in this respect. we need to be pragmatic and be able to discern between those practical steps likely to prove successful in the short term and those steps more likely to produce an effect in the longer-term objectives. we need to give ourselves the scope to think ahead and think big. on the other hand, the commission wants trade policy and our actions in trade bodies to have an impact and lead to results. this also applies to our bilateral deals. the provisions in our free trade agreements are not there to become mere declarations of good intentions. they must be ‘implementable’. turning to mr jadot’s report on climate change, i would like to highlight the need to ensure that any options are indeed capable of effectively reducing the risk of carbon leakage and of being applied at reasonable cost. we all know, for instance, that options such as border measures raise a number of issues: how to measure, how to monitor, and so on. the truth is that we need to exercise caution and assess all relevant issues before precipitating conclusions. that said, the eu should definitely continue to look into all feasible options. as regards mr désir’s report on corporate social responsibility, i note the statement that ‘commission initiatives should focus on supporting rather than regulating csr activities’. there is, however, a fine line to be drawn between supporting, regulating and enforcing – a line that the rapporteur has skilfully explored but that embodies a great number of political and practical considerations. indeed, csr cannot replace states or exempt them from their responsibility in enforcing their laws – just as state bodies are not there to enforce corporate policies as such. it is useful to note that many of these issues are being considered in the update of the oecd guidelines for multinational enterprises due for adoption in 2011. this is one example of the useful work being carried out and in which we are actively engaged. the reports under consideration today include very specific orientations on possible avenues for increasing the scope, effectiveness, consistency and transparency of our actions as regards social and environmental provisions in ftas, including provisions on csr or climate change issues. needless to say, the commission will continue to consider these orientations. in line with the caveats that i have already spelled out, you should anticipate important reservations on several points – as well as wholehearted agreement on others. we will have plenty of opportunities, for instance under next year’s gsp review, to discuss these issues further in the following months or years, including in the context of upcoming legislative or consent procedures. the european commission is willing to examine – together with the european parliament – suitable, effective and workable means to ensure that trade policy duly reflects societal concerns. the guiding principle should be careful, analytical policymaking on the basis of forward-looking objectives but also of realistic expectations.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on development. - mr president! - what are you doing? i am glad that commissioner de gucht, mr désir and mrs saïfi understand perfectly well that if we are to have a level playing field, standards - and these are broadly understood standards, covering human rights, social and environmental standards - must be brought into a far-reaching convergence, a unification. these standards are a very important issue not only for world trade, but also for development cooperation, and even more importantly, for the realization of what we call core values. the committee on development made a number of comments on mrs saïfi's report. for example, we regret that the european union lacks a comprehensive approach to how businesses meet their human rights obligations, which allows some companies and countries to circumvent these standards. we insist on adherence to the basic standards of the international labour organization as a precondition for the conclusion of trade agreements.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i would like to begin by thanking mr désir for his very good cooperation on the report on corporate social responsibility in international trade agreements. i was the shadow epp member on this report. corporate social responsibility has been present in the international trade debate for some time, as evidenced by the reference to the principles of social responsibility in the trade agreements recently negotiated by the union, including with south korea, colombia and peru. i am pleased that this report has parliament stressing the need to further extend these references by calling them the csr clause in the report. i am convinced that the inclusion of such clauses in international agreements will help to make csr instruments more recognisable and to promote and encourage their widespread use by companies themselves. we should not forget that the proper functioning of these instruments depends to a large extent on the will of the undertakings themselves. it is the companies that decide to go beyond the legally binding standards. ladies and gentlemen! during my last visit to india, i asked the representatives of the companies i had the opportunity to meet about their corporate social responsibility activities. and they all gave very specific examples of this kind of activity. and that gives me a very, very optimistic feeling. i hope that the report by mr désir will be a new voice for the union's action and will contribute to further widening the standards of corporate social responsibility.
in writing. in order to protect the european economy, lobbying for products from third countries should be effectively curbed. these products are very often made from materials containing substances harmful to both the environment and consumers. a prominent example is children's toys dangerous ingredients in paints or plastic elements can cause health problems, and poor quality workmanship can result in an accident that ends in a hospital visit. of course, this is how - by using cheap materials and not paying attention to the quality of the workmanship - low final prices and massive flooding of markets are achieved. we must urgently increase controls on the production of imported articles and effectively enforce the rules controlling the entry of cheap products from third countries into the european market. trade defence instruments must be effective and ensure a level playing field for all our businesses.
mr. chairman, please! as every year, the legal affairs committee reports to parliament on the european commission's report on the application of eu law, and as every year, the members of the legal affairs committee have many reservations both as regards the substance and the form in which the commission draws up this report. there is no doubt that the question of transposing eu law into national systems is a very important problem in the community. the same laws are being introduced by different countries at different times, which is understandable in some respects. however, it must not lead to delays that create legal uncertainty and consequently prevent citizens from exercising their rights. as our rapporteur rightly points out, delays in transposition and the misapplication of eu law have real costs and lead to a lack of trust by citizens in the community institutions. i therefore welcome all the commission's initiatives, such as expert meetings and bilateral dialogues between the commission and the member states, which aim to resolve these problems as quickly as possible. i am looking forward to the eu pilot programme, which is intended to be a tool to respond quickly to any cases of misapplication or adaptation of eu law to national legislation. we also reiterate the role of national courts in the practical application and interpretation of eu law. however, this role will not be fulfilled properly without adequate training, meetings and the development of a community legal culture. the word about our house ladies and gentlemen the law that we have created, we are the legislator, must be clear and legible, because only when it is understandable will it be easily transposed into national systems and there will be fewer problems associated with it.
mr. chairman, please! in analysing the 2009 activity report of the european ombudsman, i note with satisfaction the further development of the cooperation between the ombudsman and the committee on petitions. i very much appreciate the work of professor diamandouros, who has been ombudsman since 2003, and his efforts to inform citizens about the possibilities of bringing complaints about the malfunctioning of the european union administration and to encourage citizens to exercise their rights. given that only 23% of the more than three thousand complaints registered in 2009 fell within the ombudsman's remit, it is imperative that the information campaign continues. because of its limited powers, it can only deal with complaints concerning the institutions and bodies of the european union. however, it is important that all those who approach the ombudsman with complaints that are inadmissible for formal reasons are informed of the appropriate body to which the complainant can turn in a particular case. it is also important to note that the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon significantly strengthens the ombudsman's democratic legitimacy and extends his powers to foreign policy. it should also be noted that the ombudsman is increasingly taking action on his own initiative, for example in the area of late payments from the european union, disability or discrimination. its activities have also contributed to the european code of good administrative behaviour. it also welcomes the reduction in the time taken to conduct the proceedings to nine months. the ombudsman's effectiveness and his good cooperation with other bodies is also shown by the high percentage of closed cases in which the institution concerned has accepted a settlement or has resolved the issue raised in favour of the complainant. in 2009, this was the case in 56% of cases. i hope that the ombudsman, supported by us, by parliament and by the other institutions, will continue his work with equal energy and even greater efficiency than before.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. i wouldn't want to turn this room into a college or seminary room. and as you know, the first ombudsman office was created in europe almost 300 years ago. it is no wonder that we are interested in these things and give them so much attention. i think all three reports are worth considering, with one caveat. but there is this disturbing passage in the report of mrs. mary nedelcheva. in addition to this pious and good work of the european ombudsman, does this office have to cost nearly 9 million euros? can the almost byzantine way of functioning of this office be curtailed? that is why my group on this subject, and in particular on this report, will abstain, wishing the ombudsman all the best and, above all, the citizens who come to him with their complaints.
madam president! i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for her very good, comprehensive and balanced report, and the ombudsman for his continuous work to combat maladministration and raise the standards of administration in the european union. as the rapporteur rightly observed, the ombudsman's last year of operation was one of good governance and progress in reducing the number of complaints and shortening the complaints procedure. i think it's also a continuity effect. as you can see, choosing mr. diamandouros was a good decision. however, the ombudsman still needs to be more responsive to citizens' needs. to do this, it must work even more closely with national ombudsmen. the function of the european ombudsman is a function that changes with the changing times, but it must represent a constant universal set of values. i believe that in the next year of his mandate he will listen even more closely to the voice of the people.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to inform the house that the amendment tabled by the rapporteur, mrs kolarska-bobińska, is sufficiently consistent with our text, with the meaning of our text, with yesterday's vote on the rapkaya report. the next part of the oral amendment only weakens the wording of the resolution on the use of coal as a primary energy element in the energy mix in the european union. i think there is no reason to destroy the consensus we have reached in the committee on industry, research and energy by passing an oral amendment. that's why i'm asking you to oppose the passage of this amendment.
mr. chairman, please! the european union has a very comprehensive environmental policy, including in the fields of agriculture and industry. however, in the current conditions of production and competition, it is impossible to abandon agricultural chemicals or to change the production methods of goods so that they do not require a huge amount of energy. to accuse the union of not being a leader in environmental policy and to take the example of the united states and china is a gross abuse. these countries are the leaders in co2 emissions. however, the priority of environmental protection is undeniable, and therefore every effort should be made to make the european economy - industry, agriculture and transport - sustainable. good nature is the most precious thing and something that is very difficult to recover after losing it. so we must do everything we can to find the proverbial silver lining.
mr. chairman, please! finding a balance between economic and social interests is very important, but also extremely difficult. economic cooperation, while respecting the fundamental principles of democracy and the well-being of its citizens, is the foundation of the european union. this is why it is so important to introduce harmonised standards on human rights, social and environmental standards in international trade agreements. the inclusion of such standards in the eu's trade policy will contribute to a positive perception of the eu by its citizens and to improved relations with its partners. international cooperation in this area is of the utmost importance and should be encouraged by the european parliament to the greatest extent possible.
mr. chairman, please! horizontal agreements cover a very wide range of regulation and the omissions in the legislative provisions - whether intentional or unintentional - can lead to the elimination of competition. this is therefore a very important and at the same time error-prone issue. appropriate rules must be in place to standardise procedures and to facilitate agreement between the parties concerned. intellectual property rights must not be ignored and there must be serious consequences for non-compliance. i also support the author's proposals to improve the quality of legislative texts. the language used in many documents today is often incomprehensible and inaccessible to the average citizen.
in writing. − striking a balance between economic and social interests is not only extremely important, but also extremely difficult. economic cooperation, while respecting the basic principles of democracy and the well-being of its citizens, is the foundation of the european union, which is why it is so important to introduce harmonised standards on human rights, social and environmental standards in international trade agreements. the inclusion of such standards in the eu's trade policy will contribute to a positive perception of the eu by its citizens and to improved relations with its partners. international cooperation in this area is of the utmost importance and should be encouraged by the european parliament to the greatest extent possible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of a resolution on human rights, social and environmental standards in international trade agreements. the european union is founded on principles that include respect for human rights. that is why it attaches such great importance to respecting human rights worldwide. the treaty of lisbon reaffirms that the external action of the european union, of which trade is an integral part, should be conducted according to the same principles that underpinned the union's creation. i therefore fully support the practice of including legally binding human rights clauses in the european union's international agreements. i would point out, however, that they must be implemented and that economic consequences must be drawn from them for countries which do not comply with the rules. in accordance with paragraph 15 of the resolution, i consider it essential to include in all free trade agreements negotiated social and environmental standards, including: a list of minimum standards to be respected by all eu trading partners, and a list of additional conventions to be implemented gradually and flexibly, taking into account the development of the economic situation, social and environmental issues of the partner concerned. in particular, i am in favour of including a ban on child labour in all future trade agreements. i also support the strengthening of cooperation on human rights between the wto and the main un institutions.
in writing. - by adopting the resolution on the situation in the beekeeping sector, we are taking another step towards strengthening and improving the beekeeping sector. the problems of this important and still underappreciated industry are global. bees are of economic and environmental importance. the high mortality of bee colonies currently observed has a negative impact on agricultural production. new funding mechanisms are therefore needed in the future financial perspective beyond 2013 to allow more scientific research into the causes of the decline in bee populations and to take appropriate measures to reverse this negative trend. support should also be provided for information and training campaigns to encourage young beekeepers to take up activities in the sector.
in writing. − energy policy is a particularly important area of european union activity at the moment. addressing energy crises in neighbouring countries and ensuring energy security in member states should be a priority for the institutions of the european union. it is of the utmost importance to strike a balance between energy policy and environmental protection. that is why we must promote the use of renewable energy sources as much as possible. this will not only reduce emissions of harmful substances, but can also effectively reduce the dependence of the european union market on foreign supplies of energy raw materials. to ensure energy security, which is so important for all citizens of the member states, it is essential to promote good relations between the european union and third countries, especially those that supply europe. diversifying oil and gas supplies is also important to make the eu less vulnerable to energy crises in neighbouring countries.
in writing. the report by ms kolarska-bobińska draws attention to a number of important problems, such as the lack of a unified energy policy that takes account of the specificities of individual eu countries and the need to import energy from third countries. the forecasts indicate that oil dependence will further increase in the future, and therefore the energy strategy must have a multi-faceted and international dimension, going beyond the framework of the european union. given the close geographical proximity of the community countries to russia, the european union should seek to strengthen cooperation with our eastern neighbours on appropriate terms. our efforts should also focus on meeting the objectives of the lisbon treaty, and thus on creating a single energy market while ensuring security of energy supply. the achievement of these objectives requires investment in network infrastructure, which would foster the integration of regional energy markets, as well as the modernisation of pan-european energy networks. as the honourable member rightly suggests, the installation of new terminals that could transport gas from anywhere in the world would allow for the discovery of new sources of gas imports, especially from regions rich in this raw material, such as central asia. the president of the european parliament, jerzy buzek, and former european commission president jacques delors also suggested financial assistance for infrastructure development, as a modernised and expanded energy network is the basis for building a coherent energy policy.
madam president! christians are being murdered all the time, today in iraq, nigeria, egypt, afghanistan, yesterday in sudan, india and indonesia, and tomorrow, if they are not killed, if they are not victims of pogroms, violence, rape and aggression, they must live as pariahs, masking their faith even where their cultural, political and economic roots are much older than the emergence of islam in their native land. despite the appeals of western muslim intellectuals, nothing is being done in their countries to ensure their safety. their only fault is that they practice the same religion as europeans and americans. in 2010, muslim fundamentalism is annihilating arab christians before our eyes. no human community deserves to be treated like this. it is worth saying that there is no country of christian origin where muslims are treated as badly as christians living in muslim lands. this parliament should draw up a report on the situation of christians in muslim countries, and the european institutions should put the issue of persecution on the agenda with these countries.
madam president! i'm sure the iraqi government's intentions are the best, but we all need to do more to protect the christian community in this country. this community is now being discriminated against, attacked, and finally murdered for the sole purpose of finally being eliminated from the land it has inhabited for almost two thousand years. the european union should be more courageous in this matter, ignoring the self-censorship of political correctness which is even evident in the text of the resolution we are about to adopt. the defence of iraqi christians today obviously requires the protection of displaced persons, the acceptance of them in our countries, the change of regime in iraq. but certainly -- and this is my appeal to the commission, to catherine ashton -- this certainly has to be the guideline, the main guideline of our diplomacy in the world. religious freedom, and in particular that of christian communities, should be the flagship of european diplomacy.
the author. - madam president! - what are you doing? in october, we witnessed thousands of tibetans peacefully protesting against the chinese government's planned change in education policy. the current bilingualism model, which allows ethnic minorities to learn in their own national languages on a par with chinese, would be replaced by a formula in which chinese is the primary language of instruction. qiang wei, the communist party secretary of qingai province, announced in a press article that the common chinese language will become the main language in primary schools by 2015. in view of the need for tibetans and other ethnic groups in china to function effectively in the labour market, they should be able to learn chinese, but not at the expense of receiving adequate education in their mother tongues. it should be noted that the rights that tibetans are fighting for are derived from article 4 of the chinese constitution and article 10 of the law on regional national autonomy. the tibetan people are therefore demanding respect for their already recognised rights and the european parliament should strongly support them in their efforts to preserve their own culture, of which language is a fundamental element. i think we all have a very close relationship with the words of dokru choedak, who fought for the preservation of the tibetan language, that schools and language are the material of national identity.
- madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the big european countries are actually paying a lot of attention to getting closer to china, some economic relations, investments, business. the role of the european parliament is even greater, to speak out loudly about human rights and the fact that they are being violated. i think that today the european parliament must emphasize very strongly the right of the people living in tibet to their own language, to have unrestricted access to the outside world through the internet - or whatever it is, we live in the 21st century - to have access to foreign journalists, because the penalty for foreign correspondents visiting the region is an embarrassing thing. finally, i would like to say that the imposition of the state language in tibet is a very worrying thing.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. today, none of us can complain about not knowing or being informed about what is happening in tibet, yet we continue to allow almost without reaction that tibetans are being destroyed by china as individuals and as a whole nation with their great culture and beautiful authentic religion. today we're talking about the process of destroying tibetan and replacing it with mandarin. after all, many of us in this room, many of our ancestors, often at great cost, fought for our national languages against the will of the occupier and the dictator, because we knew that losing our language was losing the last hope that we would ever be ourselves in our own country. it is also because of this experience, which is the fate of many europeans, that we must demand that those who negotiate with china on our behalf, when talking about technological development, investment, trade and so on, do not ignore the human rights that are notoriously violated in china. in negotiations with the chinese government on human rights, and here i join all the appeals before me, i ask that human rights not be a secondary issue, whether we are in an economic crisis or not.
madam president! language is the most important attribute of identity and the main tool of social communication. today's debate over the attempts by the government of the people's republic of china to introduce chinese as the sole mandatory language in the education system in tibet is a blow to the culture of the nation. until now, tibetan has been the official language in tibet and in those regions of china where tibetans are the main ethnic group. its use and development is one of the most important aspects for tibetans to enjoy real autonomy. it is understandable that chinese should also be required for those seeking employment outside tibet, but it seems to be a fair and sufficient solution to introduce chinese as a subject rather than replacing tibetan with chinese as a language of instruction. therefore, we should express our opposition to the attempt to deprive the tibetans of their basic means of communication. by removing tibetans from the possibility of learning the tibetan language, china will slowly but surely lead to the elimination of tibet's autonomy and the loss of its cultural heritage.
madam president! the tibetan language is part of the long history of a people who have fought for years to preserve their culture and is a strong uniting element in this community. therefore, preserving and enforcing bilingualism at all levels of schooling in tibet is the only and best solution. the chinese government is a signatory to the un declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples. it thus committed itself to respecting the fundamental rights of national minorities in its territory. any move by china to ban the use of tibetan in schools should be condemned by the international community. i believe that steps should be taken to ensure that the fundamental rights of tibetans in china are more effectively monitored.
- madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. all those who had the illusion that the so-called elections organized on november 7 which were just a farce would bring us closer to democracy in burma must be disappointed. although nobel peace prize winner aung san suu kyi was released a week after the elections, there is no indication that the same fate will befall the country's more than 2,000 other political prisoners. in addition, a few days ago, we received information that the ruling military junta in burma had suspended the publication of nine more publications, further restricting the already limited freedom of speech in the country. therefore, further pressure from the international community is needed. first of all, the european union should focus on putting pressure on china, because it is the country without which the ruling junta in burma would not be able to stay in power. finally, i would like to thank the president of the european parliament, mr buzko, for inviting ms aung san suu kyi to the sakharov prize ceremony next month in strasbourg.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. it's like the government releasing one very famous person, like showing the world that it's democratic, that it's converted to human rights, and behind that facade there's really nothing, there's no real, concrete change. here we have the theater and thank god that this noble woman is free. but behind that theater are the tragedies, as we said, of the few thousand people who are still in prison. so the slogan of "release political prisoners" in burma still holds true. i think this message from the region's most famous political prisoner, who has just been released, is so important that it radiates across asia. it's already being used by dissidents in china. i think it's worth pointing out. that is why the european parliament must fight for human rights, for the freedom of political refugees in this region.
madam president! we all remember those years when lech walesa was leaving prison or mandela was leaving after many years. it gave hope, it gave hope to the free world that all this pressure on the governments of the world was working. the release of the burmese opposition leader, ms. san suu kyi, is a great challenge for us as well. without the international community's efforts, without putting pressure on the ruling junta in burma, democracy will not be established. i remember when the leaders of the free world used to come to poland during the communist dictatorship and all of them, besides official visits, also paid a visit to the chairman of the underground solidarity, lech wałęsa. and that is the policy that should be followed now. i'm glad that mrs. ashton is going to burma soon and will be meeting with mrs. san suu kyi. i hope that the european parliament delegation will also be able to speak to ms san suu kyi in burma and in strasbourg soon.
in writing. – the situation in burma has come to a critical juncture. it is important that the european parliament stays the course with its relations with burma. we need to focus on the government’s treatment of the citizens when 40% percent of the population belongs to an ethnic minority that was forced to flee to thailand after the recent election. the release of aung san suu kyi is a positive, however history has shown us that the burmese government has a habit of reverting back to its old ways where as any or all opposition is imprisoned. currently more than 1 000 ‘political prisoners’ are still being held. the blatant disregard for free elections is a clear indication that the new government has little or no interest in providing a true democracy for the people of burma. the un proposal for further dialogue with burma should be supported by this parliament and we should continue our efforts to protect all the citizens of burma from future injustices. it is my belief that our steady vigilance and open dialogue is crucial to the people of burma and a clear signal of unity among this parliament and other global organisations must be sent.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 25 november 2010.
i'd like to give you a few preliminary remarks before our meeting. i would like to remind you that last thursday the conference of presidents decided that the reports by mrs sidonia jędrzewska and mrs helga trüpel on the new draft budget for 2011 would be debated tomorrow, tuesday, at 4 p.m. the vote on this matter is scheduled for wednesday. secondly, there will also be a debate tomorrow on the outcome of the cop16 climate conference. the international community has made some progress in cancun. a large delegation from the european parliament also took part in the negotiations. our colleagues are already here today. commissioner hedegaard and i will consider how satisfactory the agreement is and what the next steps should be before the south african conference. thirdly, on 21 october we met this year's laureate of the european parliament's sakharov prize for freedom of thought. as you may recall, it was the cuban dissident, mr. guillermo fariñas. unfortunately, mr. fariñas is having difficulty arriving and personally receiving the award this coming wednesday, despite my personal request in a letter to the president of cuba, mr. raul castro. we expect that these problems with mr fariñas' arrival in strasbourg will be noted by lady ashton, who will take this into account in her future relations with cuba. we're still hoping our winner will reach us. if he were to fly out of cuba in the next few hours, he might still be able to make it to our session on wednesday. fourth information: i would also like to remind you that 20 years ago, on 13 december 1981 to be exact, martial law was declared in poland. the communist authorities wanted to stifle the growing "solidarity" movement. thousands of opposition activists were arrested and over a hundred people lost their lives. nearly three decades after those events, we remember those who dared to risk their lives to free europe from the yoke of communism. finally, fifth information, in view of the behaviour of mr godfrey bloom in the plenary on 24 november and given that he did not avail himself of any of the three opportunities offered to him to apologise for his words, i have decided, pursuant to rule 9 and rule 153 of the rules of procedure, to impose a penalty on him of deprivation of his right to a residence allowance for a period of seven days. i informed mr. godfrey bloom of my decision earlier. now for the announcements: the signing of acts adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure. i hereby announce that on wednesday the president of the council and i will sign the following 10 acts adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure in accordance with rule 74 of parliament's rules of procedure. the titles of these acts will be published in the minutes of this meeting. secondly, ms gruny has informed me in writing that her mandate as a member of the european parliament has expired as a result of her election to the french national assembly. parliament takes note of this and, in accordance with article 7 (2) of the act concerning the election of the members of the european parliament by direct universal suffrage and article 4 (1) and (4) of the rules of procedure, declares a vacancy with effect from 14 december 2010. finally, the third information: i have received a request from the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe to appoint mr johannes cornelis van baalen to the interparliamentary delegation for relations with afghanistan to replace mr karl haglund. are there any comments? i don't see any comments. the nomination has been accepted.
the final draft agenda, drawn up in accordance with rules 137 and 138, was distributed by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 9 december 2010. the following changes are proposed: wednesdayi received a request from the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) to put on the agenda the report by mr schajer on the procedure for the control by the member states of the commission's exercise of implementing powers.
thank you, mr szájer. is there support for this proposal?
i propose that we should proceed as follows. we will hold the debate on wednesday and the sitting will close at 21.00. the deadline for tabling amendments will be 10.00 on wednesday. the vote will take place on thursday. (parliament agreed to the proposal)
who wants to say yes? who's reporting with a positive statement?
who would like to speak against this motion? i see no objections, so we vote. (parliament adopted the proposal) the chairman. - these two oral questions will be added to the agenda on wednesday afternoon. the hearing will continue until approximately 9:00 p.m. (the order of business has been set)
the next item on the agenda is a one-minute speech on a major political issue.
that concludes the item.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, i will address all the questions. thank you for placing this very important debate on the agenda. let me start by thanking mrs griesbeck for her support and her work in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the eu-georgia agreement with the adoption of a favourable opinion. following the crisis in georgia in the summer of 2008, it was decided at an extraordinary meeting of the council of the european union to step up relations with georgia, including visa facilitation measures. as you mention, mrs griesbeck, it is standard eu policy that a visa facilitation agreement cannot be offered to a third country without a readmission agreement, so the european council’s decision implied that the two should be negotiated and concluded in parallel. i am very grateful to mrs griesbeck for having also noted the important step forward in relations between georgia and the eu that these two agreements represent. the agreement is very much along the lines of a standard eu readmission agreement, covering nationals as well as third country nationals, and also safeguarding – as was said – respect for human rights through a ‘non-effective’ clause and an article on data protection. the agreement also provides for the establishment of a joint readmission committee, tasked with monitoring implementation of the agreement. this is an important step towards smoother mobility between the people of georgia and the european union. georgia has already waived the visa requirement for eu citizens, and this agreement will facilitate mobility for georgian citizens. the agreement will indeed make it easier, cheaper and quicker for georgian citizens – more than 60 000 per year – to obtain a schengen visa. it will bring other concrete benefits: a 10-day deadline will be set for the processing of applications and the visa fee will be reduced from eur 60 to eur 35. there will be certain categories of applicants who will be free of charge: students, journalists, children, pensioners, the disabled, etc. they can also benefit from a simplified supporting documents requirement and a multi-entry visa if they need to travel. also, holders of diplomatic passports will be entirely exempted from visa obligations, which will further strengthen official contacts between the eu and georgia. mrs griesbeck mentioned the evaluation. this has been slightly delayed, but i will present it by the beginning of next year – i hope no later than february. i will be happy to discuss it with the civil liberties committee and parliament. you also made reference to the programme for pakistan. this has only been operational for 13 days so it is a little early to evaluate it, but we will of course be happy to keep you updated. concerning the issue raised by mrs ojuland of the visa facilitation agreement between the eu and russia, this has been in force since 1 january 2007. it is one of the eight visa facilitation agreements that we have concluded. particularly important elements are that it applies on a reciprocal basis to eu citizens also, as they are currently under a visa obligation for travelling to russia. it is also an important agreement in quantitative terms. according to statistics provided by russia, more than 1.5 million visas were issued to eu citizens in 2008 and the same year member state consulates issued 3.5 million visas to russian citizens. that is more than a quarter of all schengen visas issued worldwide. all eu and russian citizens benefit from the general facilitation provided by this facilitation agreement, such as a reduced fee of eur 35. certain categories are also exempted under specific facilitation; there is a visa-free waiver and also a multi-entry visa. the commission has evaluated this facilitation and has found that it works quite well. however, there are some shortcomings, as were referred to. to address these, we adopted a month ago a recommendation for directives for the renegotiation of the visa facilitation with russia. this relates entirely to further facilitation with regard to documentary evidence and the length of the visa application procedure, the extension of the provisions for the issuing of multiple-entry visas and a visa-free waiver for a number of well-defined categories of applicants. as regards the specific issue of the implementation of article 10 of the visa facilitation agreement, which provides for the simplification of the registration procedure, we noted in our evaluation that russia had adopted some simplification; it is now possible to register by post, for example. the registration fee will be abolished by next year, but some of the other measures, such as the translation of the registrations into english and the possibility to register online, have not yet materialised. we are raising this issue with our russian counterparts and in different fora, and we hope that this will take place very soon. concerning the other eastern partnership countries, there have been other steps as well. this was also in your question. we have visa facilitation with moldova and ukraine as from 1 january 2008, but we are also renegotiating these agreements. regarding belarus, draft negotiating directives for visa facilitation were adopted by the commission a month ago, and we will recommend multiple-entry visas with a long period of validity for bona fide travellers and set deadlines for processing visa applications, as well as possible exemptions for visa obligations for holders of diplomatic passports. we will also adopt draft negotiating directives for a visa facilitation agreement with azerbaijan and armenia next year. on the correct application of the visa liberalisation scheme that mr weber referred to, namely that applicable to serbia and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the council decided, as was also said, to grant visa-free travel to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, montenegro and serbia in 2009. the decision came following incentive dialogue and substantial progress by these countries on the main matters covered by the visa liberalisation dialogues. the dialogues have proved effective in implementing a lot of important reforms but, as was also pointed out, the visa-free regime comes with responsibilities and the countries concerned should take the appropriate measures to make sure that there is no abuse of the visa waiver. some member states have experienced an increased number of asylum applications from these countries – notably serbia and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. these have to be assessed on an individual basis according to our legislation. we have taken a number of steps to address this situation: we have had high-level meetings with the ministers of the interior on the two questions, and there was a high-level visit to the two capitals by the belgian presidency and the commission. the authorities of these two countries have taken some steps. there have been new information campaigns organised to inform the citizens. there are instructions to the border police to deliver and to perform increased controls on people exiting the country and to inform travellers about the risk of unfounded applications for asylum. when, earlier this autumn, we proposed lifting the visa requirement for the citizens of albania and bosnia-herzegovina, both countries committed themselves to setting up information campaigns for their citizens on the rights and obligations arising from the visa waiver, and this has been done. these are very ambitious campaigns. in addition, after approval by the european parliament and the council, the commission made a commitment to intensify post-visa liberalisation monitoring for all the western balkan countries. there will be two parts to this. on the one hand we will continue to assess the sustainable implementation of reforms by the countries concerned through the stabilisation and association process – in particular in the area of justice, freedom and security. on the other hand, we will also act as a prevention mechanism against new situations of high in-flow of persons from the region. the collection of the necessary operational information that could help to prevent these situations was done early this year, and we will have active participation from frontex, europol, immigration liaison officers, western balkan police liaison officers and the secretariat of the police corporation convention for south-east europe, supported by the incoming presidencies – hungary and poland. all the information exchanged and collected will be shared by eu member states and, of course, when appropriate, with the countries of the western balkans. such information will also feed into the commission assessment to be carried out in the first semester of next year on post-visa liberalisation monitoring. i consider that these measures should contribute to avoiding the misuse of the visa-free travel regime, and i am confident that close cooperation between the countries of origin and eu destination countries, supported by the commission, offers an effective response. we will, of course, continue to report regularly to the european parliament and to the council on the results of this monitoring mechanism, for the first time in june 2011.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. − as the permanent rapporteur of the european parliament's report on european union cooperation with georgia, and as the author of the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs on the reports of ms griesbeck, i would like to say a few words about these two agreements - the readmission agreement and the visa facilitation agreement between the european union and georgia. i feel obliged to say that these agreements were passed by the committee on foreign affairs by an overwhelming majority. i would like to add that at the last session of the european parliament, here in strasbourg, we heard a speech by president saakashvili, a speech which even in the eyes of those who are not his fans was described as substantive, balanced, rational. the president then not only declared the non-use of force or openness to talks with russia on difficult issues, but also declared what is the main goal of georgia's foreign policy and of course it is european integration and membership in the north atlantic treaty. i think we must remember, without mentioning any deadlines, because only a madman would be talking about deadlines today, that georgia and georgians are today the most pro-european country and nation of the countries that we include in the eastern partnership programme. the european union should give a positive, substantive response to these aspirations of the georgians. we should be open to working with georgia. the agreements we are discussing today are not a revolution, of course, but we all see them as a step in the right direction. the point is to implement them as soon as possible, because in my view it should not happen that today residents of abkhazia or south ossetia, which are regions separated from georgia, who hold russian passports, have an easier visa situation than georgians.
on behalf of the ecr group. georgia is a country today which, despite many problems, is in the process of very dynamic changes both socially and economically. any signals to the georgian people that the strength of these changes is reflected in our responses as an institution of the european union should be welcomed. also, when it comes to russia, we have to think about the context in which we see the visa regime with russia. i have the impression that this cannot be treated as an element of the prestige of the authorities, that if we abolish visas, that is, that the authorities in russia are negotiating well with the european union. we have to look at it in a different way, in the context of ensuring modernization, in the context of our relationship with ordinary russians. and so it's important to say clearly that the process of lifting visas, of opening up based on the conditions that have been set, is a very positive process that serves our relations with the societies in the east well. we must dispel the myth that visas are somehow an essential element of our security and we must say, perhaps in the european parliament, particularly clearly and repeat it at every opportunity: visas build walls, unnecessary walls. in the framework of the commission for cooperation with ukraine, which i chair, we have prepared a special report with ngos, in which we have examined this problem. it is clear from this report that visas are not really an important security instrument, visas are an instrument of separation between the societies of the european union and those of the east, and we should always be open to it. it is our duty as parliamentarians.
we have to talk about visas, we have to talk about visas from the standpoint of statistics, what the european union has done. this room is a pleasure. i would like all those who spoke with such satisfaction and contentment today to try to imagine a situation where, in order to get a visa, they have to stand in line for several hours, endure humiliation, inconvenience, stand in the rain in terrible conditions. they have to be able to afford, they have to pay one-third of their salary to get this visa. they have to hear, by the way, that diplomats in their country are exempt from the visa requirement, and then finally they applied for a multiple entry visa because they need it, and they get a single entry visa, they wanted a schengen visa, and they get a visa to the country. the visa process must be a matter of conscience for us. the visa process is really a humiliation for millions of people. people who stand in these lines. and let us remember that by expressing the satisfaction that is in this room today. i understand that we use the visa process as a stick and a carrot, but the government and the people who are in line deserve normal sympathy. madam commissioner, you are from sweden. as you know, in the 1970s, your country, with austria, was one of only two countries where there was a no-visa regime for the communist countries. as a citizen of poland, i visited your country in 1976. why? why? because travelling to sweden was visa-free. of course i love your king, swedish freedom and the economy, but please remember that, as long as we have visas, we shouldn't feel comfortable.
by liberalizing the visa regime, we should be sending signals about our values as well. it's not just about opening the doors, because we should open them as wide as possible, but also about promoting democracy in the countries that are neighbours of the european union. we should therefore support those countries which are genuinely committed to democracy, the rule of law and respect for european values. however, it seems that we should first of all liberalize the visa regime for these post-soviet countries first, and then for russia. and here i agree with those voices that said that if we do visa liberalization for russia before we do it for the people of ukraine and other post-soviet countries, that would be a very bad signal. in georgia, it may be that in the areas now occupied by the russians, many people will want to get russian citizenship and settle there, because it will be a pass for russia. let's also consider the visa regime as a promotion of democracy.
in writing. any visa liberalisation is a response to the expectations of the citizens of the countries concerned. i would like to stress that the visa agreement between the eu and georgia cannot be seen in isolation from the agreement on the readmission of persons residing illegally. we have been talking about this for a long time on the european stage, because visa policy is particularly important for the eu. visa liberalisation opens up eu countries to citizens of balkan countries and thus opens up opportunities for them to participate in eu dialogue and learn about democracy. however, with liberalisation we must also take into account the fact that more free movement of people across borders can be a boon for illegal immigrants and criminal groups. member states should apply uniform visa issuing procedures in this respect, as albania and bosnia and herzegovina are next in line. the european commission must respect the conditions for visa liberalisation and monitor the situation so that good solutions do not become a cause of trouble within eu countries. in addition, cooperation between countries and the use of existing experience in the visa procedure is important.
few european policies have generated so much excitement and controversy. cohesion policy, which some consider to be socialist policy par excellence, will be regarded by others as capitalist policy. it will be considered by some as a fair policy, by others as an unfair policy. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of national and regional authorities. there is really no contradiction in this policy, and it is really intended to promote greater cohesion in the european union, not only for reasons of social justice but also for equal opportunities in terms of competitiveness. in other words, it's cohesion for competitiveness. both reports speak to this, pointing out some elements that are important not only in the current situation but in the debate on the future of cohesion policy. i would point out that both of them pay particular attention to the principle of partnership. i would ask the commissioner to seriously consider whether the proposed development contract should include a requirement for member states. requirement that the member state agrees with the local and regional partners on any directions, priorities and principles before signing the contract. this should be mandatory in order to allow the european commission to clearly define the responsibility of the member state for implementing its part of the cohesion policy.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i would like to begin by saying that i consider this report to be particularly important and to congratulate the rapporteur, mr petru luhan, on his excellent work. i believe that cohesion policy should be the leading policy of the european union and its importance should increase in the coming years. treated as a horizontal policy, it should set the direction of sectoral policies and contribute to increasing the competitiveness of european regions and strengthening the european union on global markets. the system for implementing cohesion policy must be modern and flexible, based on a multi-level governance model, as has been mentioned on many occasions. it should also promote coordination of the structural funds with other european instruments and with national measures. i managed a region of 2 200 000 inhabitants for two terms and was responsible for the implementation of cohesion policy instruments both on the basis of a centralised model between 2004 and 2006 and a decentralised model regional operational programme between 2007 and 2013. these experiences allow me to say with full responsibility that a decentralised model allows for a better use of local potential to implement strategic solutions and achieve positive change, and i am therefore convinced that the objectives should be agreed at european level, but the means of achieving them should be defined in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity at the level most appropriate for their achievement, which in the case of cohesion policy means precisely the regional and local levels. this requires linking spending to achieving measurable goals and outcomes: growth and higher levels of employment and social inclusion.
in writing. europe is going through a difficult period. the financial crisis of 2008-2009 is still strongly affecting the economy. this is exacerbating the gap between the rich regions of western europe and the poorer regions of central and southern europe. this situation creates the need to strengthen effective mechanisms to combat the crisis. the most important at union level are cohesion policy and regional funds. by co-financing investments at local level, they have become an effective symbol of european cooperation over national interests. they also made a significant contribution to the expansion of the economic growth zone between 2004 and 2007 and to the reduction of disparities between the countries of old and new europe. this is why it is so important to increase the eu's cohesion policy funding for the 2013-2020 financial perspective, to maintain convergence as the overarching objective and to maintain the current mechanism for selecting beneficiaries based on the value of gdp in each region. the possibility of increasing co-financing of investments from 75% to 80% while reducing funding for the so-called outermost regions also seems important. from the point of view of the eastern european countries, it is also important to continue financing infrastructure investments, especially in the vertical belt linking north and south of europe.
on behalf of the ecr group. with the entry into force of the charter of fundamental rights in europe, we are faced with two somewhat competing systems of human rights protection. one based on the charter of rights and the case law of the court of justice, the other based on the european convention and the case law of the tribunal. i think the main challenge that the kingi gál report sees is to ensure that these systems are coherent, both in terms of content and in terms of institutional arrangements. the charter of fundamental rights cannot be interpreted in such a way as to create a presumption of new competences for the european union. article 51 is very clear on this, but i think it is worth recalling, particularly in this house, that matters of matrimonial law, criminal law, the legal protection of unborn life cannot be regulated at eu level, either directly or through the judicial activism of this or that tribunal. such politicization of human rights instruments can only have one effect: a decline in confidence in international justice.
the incorporation of the charter of fundamental rights into union law does not extend the scope of its competences and is in line with the principle of subsidiarity. the charter is an integral part of the union's policy. i therefore once again call on the polish authorities to fulfil their obligations and adopt the charter of fundamental rights. there is no substantive justification for the polish opt-out of the charter. it's a political decision that compromises my country and hurts its citizens. the adoption of the charter is particularly important in the context of the forthcoming polish presidency. all europeans must have equal rights, regardless of where they live or how clerical their state is. unfortunately, in poland, even the constitutional court doesn't always understand this. i think it is particularly important to respect the rights of women, who are the only discriminated majority. i therefore once again call for a european directive on combating violence against women, including sexual and reproductive violence, which is being applied by some member states in the full force of their domestic law.
given the proposed changes, it is easy to see that this directive is one of the first initiatives to achieve these important objectives. not only must victims of violence be prevented from suffering harm at the hands of the perpetrator in their own country, but they must also be covered by such protective measures throughout the european union. the position of the rapporteurs should therefore be supported. it should also be noted that the scope of the initiative is broad, deliberately broad. although most protection orders in force concern women who are victims of gender-based violence, the initiative can cover all victims of violence children and adults of both sexes, provided the perpetrator has been identified. in this context, the stockholm programme concluded that victims of crime, including terrorism, who are in the most difficult situation or are particularly vulnerable, such as those exposed to repeated acts of violence in close relationships, victims of gender-based violence or those who are victims of other types of crime in a member state of which they are not nationals or residents, need specific legal support and protection. the european protection order should therefore apply to all victims of crime, including trafficking in human beings, female genital mutilation, forced marriage, honour killings, incest and other such cases. this initiative should therefore be supported and i fully support the rapporteur.
i am very enthusiastic about the report we are discussing today. the protection granted to a victim in one country is guaranteed to be valid in other eu countries, where the victim has to go for fear of his or her perpetrator, and this is a chance for the victim to live a normal life. it is thanks to the european protection order that protection measures adopted in one member state of the union can be recognised, applied and enforced by the courts of another member state. moreover, extending the application of the directive to victims of all types of violence, not just victims of gender-based violence, is another milestone. all victims deserve respect and expect that those responsible for their suffering will be justly punished. only the mechanism of protection of the victim's continuation seems to be fully effective and can prevent the same crime from being repeated, can actually protect the victim. i am very pleased that poland is among the countries that have joined this initiative.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. fellow workers! in today's debate, i would like to address the issue of child trafficking. every effort should be made to improve and improve the legal and institutional system and childcare system in each member state. the scope of activities included in trafficking in human beings should be reviewed and extended. only in this way will we be able to prevent such phenomena as: 1) commercial adoption adoption with referral and waiver of the right to a child before the family court, usually for a fee; 2) leaving the country by pregnant mothers and returning to the country without a child; 3) disappearance of children whose parents have died in countries affected by armed conflicts. in times when a large number of crimes are committed via the internet, it is worthwhile to set up special interdisciplinary teams specialised in combating this type of crime. they would not only be engaged in surveillance of criminal circles, but also in gathering evidence by monitoring the financial situation of those involved in the trafficking of children. public officials should be trained and made aware of the situation of a child in a family where child trafficking may have occurred. this is particularly true of services working with families who are in need of state care because of their difficult financial situation. only through multilateral and harmonised action at the level of the 27 member states can we have a chance to eliminate or at least reduce trafficking in human beings, with a particular focus on child trafficking.
we cannot allow the huge amount of money we spend on cohesion policy to be squandered or wasted. it is therefore important to improve their management, but also their effective use. in this case, the local authorities, which are the most aware of the needs of the region, play a major role. attention should also be paid to cross-border areas to facilitate their integration. in order to ensure that vertical and horizontal cooperation runs smoothly, it is necessary to simplify procedures, including increased expenditure on training of specialists from the implementing entities in each member state. support is also needed for the modernisation and development of the it system, which will ensure easy and equal access to information for all beneficiaries.
many eu citizens still do not realise the importance of cohesion policy for the development not just of individual regions but of entire countries. its main task is to make up for the disparities between the regions of the community. this allows people in less-favoured regions with difficult economic conditions and limited access to transport to have the same access to social services, education, transport or energy as those in more socio-economically advantaged areas. the importance of the idea of cohesion cannot be overstated. we must therefore support all efforts to make better use of the structural funds and to make more effective use of their integrating role, especially as the effects of cohesion policy are felt most strongly at local level and thus largely in rural areas. these are the reasons why i supported this report.
in writing. − in the face of the increasing frequency of natural disasters, it is of the utmost importance that the european union provides assistance to countries and regions that are dealing with the lasting effects of such tragedies. the eu solidarity fund was created for this purpose. it allows financial aid to be granted to victims of 'serious natural disasters', such as the island of madeira in portugal, which was devastated by floods, and the regions of france devastated by hurricane xynthia. in the light of this year's floods in poland and other parts of europe, i am in favour of the request to provide support to the affected countries, in solidarity with the thousands of citizens in the regions affected by the devastating disasters.
in writing. - i fully support the launch of the european union solidarity fund in response to the natural disasters in france and portugal. i consider the solidarity fund to be one of the most important elements in building european identity and community among eu citizens. in 2010, poland was among the beneficiaries of the solidarity fund, which received a positive response from the media. the aspect i would like to stress is the need to spread awareness of the solidarity fund and the effects of its use.
in writing. − the global economic crisis has caused significant structural changes in many businesses, leading to the loss of jobs for a huge number of people. the present application concerns aid for a large group of workers from the greater poland region who have been made redundant in poland. another couple hundred layoffs in the same region are the subject of the second financial aid request we're voting on today. the scale of the disturbance in the local market in this part of poland is therefore enormous. i am very pleased that the european commission has approved the appeal, classifying it as meeting the conditions for granting financial support. this will enable the redundant to get back into or find a new job, and the entrepreneur to use the support to offset the negative effects of the global crisis and to stay in the market.
in writing. − decentralisation of government increases the powers of regional and local authorities. it is the local authorities who have the best knowledge of the needs of their regions and their people, and who can adapt the overall objectives to their own potential and capabilities. we will succeed if member states identify with each other's actions and if responsibility for them is transferred to the authorities at the appropriate level. a bottom-up approach should be encouraged, which should be flexible and integrated. it is important that the cohesion policy is user-friendly. there is a need to reduce administrative costs and simplify procedures, which in many cases, due to their complexity, not only result in errors but often discourage beneficiaries from using the support available. we talk about reducing the risk of error, but we should not forget the objectives and objectives we have set ourselves. this is about innovation. when we are looking for innovative solutions, we have to take into account the risks and the possibility of errors. the question therefore is whether we want to conduct the experimental charter activities in the spirit of the priorities of strategy 2020 or whether we prefer to limit the number of errors, thereby discouraging our citizens from taking innovative, sometimes uncertain actions.
in writing. − the member states of the european union are constantly confronted with the problem of illegal immigration and employment in the so-called 'broad area' by third-country nationals. it is necessary to take appropriate steps to effectively address these problems. simplifying and harmonising the procedure for issuing entry and residence permits to third-country nationals for the purpose of taking up employment in a member state will contribute to curbing illegal immigration. at the same time, it will meet the demand for labour on european markets. the proposed rules leave a certain degree of latitude to host countries, particularly as regards the conditions for refusing entry. this ensures an appropriate level of legal certainty and non-interference with the competences of the member states. the directive will allow all member states to adopt a common position on economic immigration. this will ensure the transparency of the rules, the safety and legal protection of discriminated workers, the fight against illegal immigration and, finally, the fight against unfair competition. for this reason, i agree with the position expressed by the author of the report.
in writing. − i supported the resolution on the draft directive of the european parliament and of the council on the european protection order. the directive is essential for victims of violence to feel relatively safe throughout the european union, regardless of where they live. after the adoption of the directive, it will be important to provide regular training for judicial and other competent authorities to enable them to provide adequate assistance to injured persons. the information campaign aimed at raising awareness among citizens of the possibility of issuing a european protection order will also be relevant. this will significantly increase the protection of victims of violence and reduce violence-related crime. the european protection order directive is an important step towards a european directive against violence against women. it is necessary to develop and implement as soon as possible a common, comprehensive eu strategy to combat violence against women in all eu member states. we urgently need european legislative standards to combat violence against women. it's the only way we can support women and fight against the social acceptance of domestic violence and the impunity of this crime. i hope that the forthcoming polish presidency will make a significant contribution to the drafting and adoption of this directive. i've already made a point of addressing this to prime minister donald tusk, but i've yet to receive a response.
in writing. − in recent years, cohesion and structural funds have contributed to the dynamic development of many cities and a significant part of rural areas. for union citizens, cohesion policy is tangible evidence of the positive impact of action at union level on local communities and their regions. we are slowly emerging from the crisis that has created additional inequalities in the eu. cohesion policy has proved to be a flexible tool that has been able to respond to the specific needs of individual regions and to some extent to offset the negative effects of the crisis. cohesion between regions is a specific added value which has a positive impact on the eu's economic competitiveness. by bringing regions closer together in terms of development, quality of life and access to infrastructure, the union can meet global challenges. there will be a greater focus on investment in innovation, research and development. a sustainable, green and knowledge-based economy increases our competitiveness, which will increase if we reduce unemployment in the regions and if we support the creation of a well-qualified and mobile workforce, both in urban and rural areas. support for small and medium-sized enterprises, which employ the majority of eu citizens, is an important issue. we need a strong cohesion policy, which requires the right budget to achieve its ambitious objectives, at least at the current level.
the next item is the question to the president of the commission. i would like to welcome president josé manuel barroso to our monthly question-and-answer session. please, please! the rules are the same as always: one minute for questions, one minute for answers, and possibly an extra half-minute for questions and answers, should one of the ladies or one of the gentlemen in the chair decide to do so.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. − as usual, we always take into account the proposals and suggestions of the independent agency, the european food safety authority, located in parma. so if they suggest a new guideline, we will study it very carefully. that's all i can tell you at this point. but the legal regime for the approval of gmos has not yet been changed. so i have to maintain this diet until it's changed. but we will be prepared to consider and analyse any new guidelines with the utmost care.
on behalf of the ecr group. since 9 april, gazprom and the nordstream consortium have been building the so-called northern gas pipeline. i do not want to focus on the ecological aspect of this event, which this house has also debated. i just want to draw attention to one fact: the pipeline that is being laid is making it very difficult for larger ships to access the polish port of świnoujście. the port is a significant employer for many poles in western poland, which is often affected by high unemployment. poland has raised this issue in bilateral relations, but i think we are also dealing with the issue of competitiveness. well, right next door, on the german side of the border, is the port of rostock. i wish it the greatest possible development, but i would like to see ports in europe treated on an equal footing, to be able to compete effectively and to see that the technical solutions of one country do not block the development of the port of another country.
president of the commission. − i am aware that there have been concerns at some point that access to the polish ports concerned would be restricted. according to the information available to the commission, however, the german stralsund mining authority included a requirement for the nord stream company in its permit to prepare a revised risk analysis for a section of the pipeline in german territory, as plans were presented at that stage by the polish side to adapt both ports for ships that would need a deeper water depth to float. as a result of the analysis, the pipeline will be laid in the seabed with a covering of half a metre for about 20 kms. in addition, the analysis of the planned route of the german eez led to the decision to opt for an alternative track over a length of 12 kms. the final permission was granted by the federal office for shipping and hydrography in february this year. according to the information available from the german authorities and the developer, both of the above measures were taken in order to ensure unrestricted access to the polish ports after construction of the pipeline. i am sorry that this is very technical, but it is the best information we have.
on behalf of the ecr group. you have repeatedly demonstrated that you treat the member states fairly. i hope that the european commission will treat my country fairly in this matter. i would just like to point out that you yourself have admitted that you rely predominantly on the figures provided by the german side. and i would appeal to the european commission to also refer to independent experts on this matter, although i keep stressing that i have great faith in your fair approach to all the countries of the european union.
president of the commission. − we are discussing many issues and many possible alternative instruments. the last euro group considered different options and different ideas, and the commission is in touch with all the parties involved. i myself and olli rehn have not only been consulting member states, but also the president of the european central bank, the executive director of the imf and other very important players in this field, but i do not think it is wise, as sometimes happened in the past, to make very important announcements that are not followed by concrete consequences. next time, we have to do exactly the opposite and come up with real conclusions when we are ready. that is why the commission is working very actively with all member states and with other institutions to give a comprehensive response as soon as possible.
president of the commission. − i would not expect you, mr farage, to make common cause with the russians – because that is what you are suggesting, that you agree with them! frankly i was elected by this parliament, by secret vote, so i think i deserve the respect of this parliament, from all members of the parliament. (applause) the european union of 27 democracies has an original way of electing a president of the commission precisely because we are not a state. i am sure you would not be in favour of a european unified state. since we are not a unified state, there is no direct election of a president of the european union. we do not have one; we have a president of the commission. you may like it or not – i like it more than you! – but in fact i have been elected by this parliament and there is a president of the european council who was designated by the heads of state and government. this is the way we are, and i think it is a democratic way of handling the diversity of the european union. i would hope that members of the european parliament, at least, respect the institutions we have in the european union, even if others do not.
colleagues, i am sorry we are not taking comments from the floor. we would like to go ahead with the proceedings.
president of the commission. − it is clear that the commission will be successful if it has the full support of our member states. we are doing that and we are very committed to reciprocity above all. the concept of reciprocity means that we want to keep markets open. we believe it is in our interest. the european union is by far the biggest exporter in the world, bigger than china, and so it is important to keep markets open. we also believe, however, that our partners have to respect some basic rules. regarding exchange rates, as you know, the european union was in the front line at the last g20 attempting to ensure that this issue is addressed constructively and cooperatively, because we believe the matter should also be discussed when we address the problems of major imbalances in the world economy.
we now come to the second part of question hour, catch-the-eye. the topic is wikileaks and cyber security.
president of the commission. − i have no direct information on the leaks and how far confidential information or private data was leaked. i am sorry i do not have that information myself – i have nothing to do with that case. it is true that this issue has raised very important issues in terms of security. we had been working on some of those problems before this wikileaks case and i have told you about some commission initiatives. i am sure that those on the other side of the atlantic are concerned as well, so that is why i think we should work together on increasing cyber security, always respecting the fundamental freedoms – because freedom of expression is a sacred right for us in the european union – while being clear that data protection and privacy are also fundamental rights. we have to find the right balance and that is why, in all our initiatives, we have to take on board those two principles, which are sometimes difficult to harmonise but nevertheless very important.
colleagues, we had 21 names on the list but only 14 of you could take the floor. i am very sorry, but the names were taken in the order on the list. that concludes question hour.
the rapporteur. − after many months of negotiations, discussions and tensions, we will finally - i hope tomorrow - be able to adopt the 2011 budget of the european union here in the european parliament's plenary session. i would like to start on the positive side with what i think has been achieved in a very interesting and effective way, and of particular relevance to european citizens, in the 2011 budget. first of all, i am very pleased that we have reached this agreement in time, that these difficult negotiations with the member states and the european commission have been concluded before the end of 2010 and that we have managed, each of us having to make a certain compromise, but together we have managed to avoid the danger of the budgetary interim for 2011. as regards the specific elements of what we have negotiated, i would like to highlight a few valuable and interesting aspects. first of all, it is the common position we have developed, which is to accept 100% of the european parliament's proposal of october this year on the priorities of the european parliament as regards budgetary commitments. all our proposals for financial reinforcement of budget lines relevant to programmes relating to youth, education, mobility, innovation, research and international affairs were accepted by the council and the european commission. it's good to see you. it should also be noted that parliament was very realistic and disciplined in its october reading. i am pleased that the council and the member states have recognised this discipline and have accepted the priorities we have proposed, which we have been clearly stating since march. in conclusion, i am pleased that the triangle of youth, education and mobility has been understood and duly appreciated by the council. i hope that the commission will make every effort to ensure that these increased funds are properly used in 2011. i'm glad we've come to a greater understanding of our own concerns. and the satisfaction of having reached an agreement is very much mixed up with a few important elements. first of all, during the 2011 negotiations, we saw in practice how difficult it is to implement the lisbon treaty, how many areas remain unknown to us, how much more we have to work together to find practical, pragmatic solutions that are consistent with the new framework in which we operate. this trial is far from over. it has also become painfully clear that the member states are less and less united when they have to deal with the crisis, that european solidarity is the first value to be lost when national budgets have to save. i am very sorry that the member states have suddenly become so short-sighted and want to save on european integration. it hurts. we have to get back to this debate, it's not over. i would also like to ask minister wathelet two rather important questions on subjects that are still puzzling me. i would like to know whether the council intends to adopt a joint declaration - the draft of which we have seen, but whose status is unclear to me - on the multiannual financial framework. in addition, as expected by the european parliament, the european commission has presented a series of unilateral declarations on lisbon, european added value and own resources. i would like to ask mr wathelet, representing the council here, if the council could explain its position on these matters. i would like to thank my colleagues in the european parliament once again for their contribution and all of you in the european commission and the council for your constructive approach and i would be grateful if you would answer these questions.
member of the commission. − mr president, i shall be brief as i have already used up my time slot. in answer to mr belder, who may have already disappeared, the commission’s proposal on how to cooperate between the institutions was in direct implementation of articles 312, 324 and, specifically, article 311 of the lisbon treaty, for the specific procedure on the own resources decision in full respect of the fiscal sovereignty of the member states. as for the own resources, this was clearly and explicitly within the mandate given to the commission in december 2005, which was confirmed by parliament, to start not only the expenditure but also the revenue side of the budget, including the british rebate. we were delicate enough not to touch the issue of the british rebate in our budgetary review and our eventual choice for the future is not to increase the expenditure but to change the proportions between the national direct payment and own resources, in line with the vision of the treaty and the founding fathers of the european union. finally, a more general remark: hopefully if we vote tomorrow our test of lisbon, in budgetary terms, will be over and we will have to draw conclusions. it sends a good message to european citizens to have a budget without any deficits or debt and to show that we are not to be taken as a scapegoat for the failed policies in some member states. therefore, now having the budget in place, we should continue our discussion on the modalities of interinstitutional cooperation in much improved circumstances.
acting president of the council. - mr president, like the commissioner, i have little to add to this debate. i have simply heard some members say that they preferred not to vote on the budget in order to assert parliament's powers in the context of the codecision procedure, and i think that each european institution has much more to gain and to enhance its own value by succeeding in moving the european union forward by finding compromises rather than blocking each other without moving forward with european projects. i think it is a matter of logic and i really thank all those who have made the choice today to build europe, to move forward. did the council get everything they wanted? no, i'm not going. does parliament have everything it wants? no, of course not. are we moving forward? i know. this codecision procedure has worked. we've all made some compromises. everyone put a little water in their wine. is there still much to be done? of course i did. this is obviously the whole discussion about flexibility and iter. i regret that we were unable to reach an agreement and i heard that what was on the table was a setback. no, i'm not going. i repeat, it is on the occasion of each discussion, today it is unanimous. if we want to return to the qualified majority, we must, it seems to me, take up what the belgian presidency had put on the table. i believe that this is fundamental in the preparation of the 2012 and 2013 budgets. i think that this is the mechanism that should be put forward, which is in line with past practice, but which at least ensures that there is no longer any unanimity in blocking the 2012 and 2013 budgets. i think it is essential that you seize this opportunity. in the case of iter, the way we have used this flexibility mechanism for iter 2010 shows that we will need this mechanism and that we must take what is on the table today. and i wanted to thank very much all of the speakers - i won't name all of them - who recognized the work we've done together to move forward. i thank all those who have favoured the logic of progress over that of blockade. i think it's really the logic that needs to be brought up. mr president, you have spoken of budgetary solidarity. in the council it is almost total, since everyone has agreed to the 91% increase. we have gone from a qualified majority to complete unanimity in the council. apart from this nonsense, i think that all the statements that are attached to this 2011 budget - because yes, a budget in itself is also political, parliament has demonstrated this in the context of the political priorities it had inserted in the budget - whether on own resources, on european added value, on lisbonisation - statement of the commission - whether in the context of this joint declaration, which is important and which has already been followed by a letter from the belgian prime minister, current president of the european union, i think that all these statements demonstrate that all these steps are going in the right direction, certainly not as fast as everyone would rather, but in any case fast enough to say that the machine is running and that it is better to fit into this logic of progress than in a logic of a blockade.
the rapporteur. - it is clear from what my predecessors have said that we are all very pleased that the 2011 budget of the european union can be implemented efficiently and without undue delay as from 1 january next year. but it's clear from all these statements that there's a shortage. there is a lack of discussion and there is a lack of agreement. it is clear to me already now that the lisbon treaty opens up new unknowns for us and that we are facing a very difficult debate on the new multiannual budget of the european union after 2013. this debate is about the fundamental question of how we can reconcile the growing divergence between the expectations of the european union, that is, between what the european union is supposed to do, and we see that both the member states and all those concerned, including the european parliament, expect more and more from the european union, that the european union is supposed to deal with an increasing number of thematic areas, that new policies are being introduced, new areas of action are being set, new tasks are being set for the european union, and the willingness to finance these new undertakings is diminishing. this disparity, which is becoming more dramatic, we need to talk about together. we can't avoid this conversation. especially in times of crisis, both financial and economic, there is no longer any place for financial taboos. we should be open to discussing everything: the union's own revenue, what the union should do, what it might give up, what is really most important to us and how much these priorities should be financed. in conclusion, i believe that what happened during the adoption of the 2011 budget is the basis and the beginning of the debate, not the end of it. thank you for your willingness to talk, and i hope there will be more of you next year.
i would like to return to the statement which parliament adopted on 23 june this year. i wanted to remind you that this statement is primarily about establishing an effective and rapid warning system against pedophiles. my question, therefore, is about another issue: should it not be the case within the european union that individual police forces create databases of convicted pedophiles, and that these databases created in individual countries can also be used by police forces in other countries.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on regional development. - mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. energy efficiency is one of the major challenges facing the european union in the next ten years. it's also a key element of our energy strategy. the most important thing now is that the commission's good report and energy strategy are implemented by the member states. to make them a reality, a few problems need to be solved. at eu level, we are still faced with the problem of measuring this energy efficiency. we currently use 2020 projections for this purpose, but it would be unreasonable to adopt binding legal targets based on such projections. we're not psychics when it comes to the future. so it is necessary, and we have already discussed this in today's discussion, to develop a new, better technology. because she's the one who's gonna make it happen. it is also crucial to take account of regional differences. the way energy is used in copenhagen is different from that in eastern poland. there is no one-size-fits-all action plan, and we need to ensure that those plans are aligned with reality. regional and local authorities will be responsible for implementing energy efficiency policy. the european commission and the member states therefore need to coordinate their actions with local authorities. otherwise, it will be seen as a bureaucracy with huge costs for regions and citizens. without multi-level management and the allocation of funds, the whole project will be doomed to failure.
on behalf of the ecr group. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur very much for the very constructive and open cooperation in the preparation of this report. i'd like to focus on one thing in my speech. the introduction of binding energy efficiency targets into the european system will be unacceptable to our political group. first of all, we don't have a common methodology for measuring efficiency, too many indicators are not comparable. the targets should be set for each country individually to take account of the very different saving potential and take into account the achievements to date. i'll give you an example of my country. poland has improved its energy efficiency by 50% since 1990. nevertheless, poland remains a low-performing country compared to the european average. the introduction of a single binding target will cause political damage and will result in the costs of the changes being unevenly distributed between member states.
mr. chairman, please! since september 2009, europe has been replacing traditional light bulbs, which europeans have become accustomed to, with energy-efficient ones produced using new technology. the need for this was motivated by the slogans of energy efficiency. this was despite indications that the financial cost of such an operation to community nationals was too high, especially in such a short period of time. the secret of the polysynel is that the data on the effects of this change presented by the european commission at the time, as many point out, came from the advertising bulletins of the manufacturers of these newly developed light bulbs. in this report, we see similar overly optimistic assumptions. they do not sufficiently address the development differences between community countries and, therefore, the costs which they would have to bear if they were to implement the recommendations. achieving an annual energy efficiency improvement of 2% for industrial plants while reducing greenhouse gas emissions will result in higher production costs and a shift of production outside europe.
i agree with the rapporteur that more emphasis should be placed on systemic innovation such as smart grids, smart metering systems, easier integration of renewable energy sources, and the development of a comprehensive strategy for heat producers and distributors. but the greatest savings and the greatest efficiency i see in creating personal responsibility for every european union citizen. just as we have learned to conserve water, we must learn to respect and use energy efficiently. any authorisation procedures for new infrastructure should be simplified and accelerated in order to maximise potential savings. energy efficiency and energy security will be the priorities of the next hungarian presidency of the european union. poland, as the eu's presidency, will also deepen its discussion on modern legislative and non-legislative solutions to maintain the competitiveness of the european energy sector while improving energy efficiency. i must say at this point that for me personally, the question of the realism of the forecasts and the quality of the eu's primes model is becoming critical, especially in the absence of a consensus in cancun. this is a separate debate, but i would like to call for a new, cross-cutting approach to energy consumption and demand in the european union. transport seems to be the most appropriate element for implementing modern energy efficiency solutions. energy efficiency in the european union should be aligned with the direction of demand, which is directly linked to spending and changing habits of citizens. i believe that the changes will bring tangible benefits to consumers and to producers through appropriate incentives and funding spread over time.
in writing. energy efficiency is most generally defined as the reduction of energy consumption per unit of consumption by rationalising the use of equipment. however, the main possibilities for increasing gross energy efficiency lie on the side of industrial physicochemical processes, which consist of: 1) better use of the heat flux released from fossil or nuclear fuels by: a) shifting the conversion in the carnot cycle to a higher temperature and pressure range, b) using appropriate waste heat recovery, e.g. in cogeneration processes; 2) reducing the ohm resistance during current transmission; 3) reducing the thermal resistance of heat exchangers; 4) increasing the thermal resistance through the use of insulating materials in buildings; 5) reducing the friction resistance; 6) reducing the magnetic field losses; 7) reducing the length of the chain over the conversion of one type of energy to another. so the 3x20 policy goal in 2020 is not simply to reduce energy consumption by 20% gross, for example, through price increases, because that will only cause a decrease in living standards, but through a rationalization that will allow 20% more useful work to be produced from the same amount of primary energy. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy objectives in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy.
in writing. increased energy efficiency will directly contribute to improving energy security across the union. if the changes are implemented properly, they will also reduce emissions. this is certainly a very good development, supporting our efforts to tackle climate change. the use of modern technologies in the modernisation of infrastructure will also bring financial savings and, as a result, economic growth in the community countries. this, the author stresses, will create new jobs not only in urban areas but also in local markets and in the countryside. of course, all these objectives will require the necessary resources and investment at the outset, but i believe that the most worthwhile thing is to ensure that europe has an energy-efficient, efficient and environmentally friendly economy.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, in order to answer the many questions that have been asked during the debate, i would like to remind you once again that the directive will apply to economic operators from july 2011 and the obligations relating to chemicals will apply from july 2013. i said in the course of the debate that the commission considers it a priority that all those concerned apply the new rules. as far as surveillance is concerned, it is clear that not only is strict legislation needed, but that strict legislation will never be effective unless it is properly applied. that is why i am convinced that the member states have a fundamental role to play, because a toy that enters the internal market in rotterdam, in constanta in romania, can be found in bologna today, in lisbon or helsinki tomorrow, without any border controls. what gives consumers security, more than the directives updated every 15 days, is confidence in the cleanliness and the proper functioning of market surveillance, that is, in the fact that if someone tries to sell unsafe toys, he will be sanctioned and dangerous products will be withdrawn from the market. the same applies to businesses, of course, and those who comply with the rules pay the cost, because they appreciate the fact that they are not exposed to unfair competition from those who, more or less consciously, sell products and toys which do not comply with the rules. in summary, the real challenge is to give consumers confidence, legal certainty and a level playing field to businesses, and resources and cooperation mechanisms to market surveillance authorities. this is why the commission will examine in 2011 the possibility of developing a multiannual market surveillance programme, which will identify actions to be taken in the long term and provide the appropriate financial resources, in order to ensure an equivalent level of control rigour and consistency in the member states' actions. i would also like to announce that i intend to organise an event in 2011 at the port of rotterdam, possibly at the same time as the directive comes into force, together with the dutch authorities, to see how the largest port in europe will organise itself to comply with the new measures imposed by the new directive. as regards the ce mark, which was the subject of my hearing before parliament before i was given the confidence, which was also an opportunity for comparison in hearings before the committee on the internal market, i would like to point out that the ce mark does not certify quality, it only certifies compliance with certain standards. it is a certificate of compliance with standards, not of quality. we can only think of a quality label in the future, as i have said many times. it is already a great deal of work to implement the ce mark, to prevent it from being misused, as happens unfortunately with many products which also come from outside the european union. so i think that we can continue to work on this, to develop the ce mark and i am not personally against, possibly in the future, thinking about a quality mark but i think it is premature to do so now. the data base is provided for in the revision of the product safety directive. however, as regards bisphenol, which is contained in baby bottles, it is not a toy, it is not covered by the directive, but - as the honourable member has pointed out - it has already been withdrawn from the market. i think i have answered most of the questions that were put, and i thank the president and i thank the members who put the questions to the commission.
the next item is the joint debate on:- statement by the council and the european commission preparing for the european council (16 and 17 december 2010) - oral question to the commission on the establishment of a permanent crisis mechanism to safeguard the financial stability of the euro area, by sharon bowles, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (o-0199/2010 - b7-0659/2010).
president of the council. - mr president, mr president of the commission, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the council, mr president, i thank you for the opportunity we have today to meet parliament and discuss with you the subjects which will be discussed at this european council. it is clear that the european council of tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, will be decisive in consolidating the economic pillar of economic and monetary union. the main theme on its agenda will be the strengthening of financial stability. we are living in exceptional times that have put and continue to put severe strain on both governments and citizens. we must do whatever is necessary to overcome the current financial crisis and restore confidence. since the start of the crisis, we have demonstrated our determination to take the necessary measures to preserve financial stability and promote a return to sustainable growth. in particular, the crisis has highlighted the need for an additional tool to safeguard the stability of the euro area. we have therefore had to set up an ad hoc mechanism, which we have just used to come to ireland's aid, and in the medium term we really need a permanent mechanism. to this end, and in close consultation with the president of the european council, the belgian government will submit to the next european council, tomorrow morning, a proposal for a decision allowing the treaty to be amended, with a view to establishing a mechanism for safeguarding the financial stability of the euro area as a whole, by amending article 136. the european council will be invited to give its consent to this draft decision and to the launch of the simplified revision procedure as provided for in article 48.6 of the treaty on european union. the aim is for the decision to be formally adopted in march 2011 and to enter into force on 1 january 2013. the implementation of the report of the working party on economic governance endorsed by the october european council is also an important step forward in strengthening budgetary discipline, broadening economic surveillance and deepening coordination. this is a matter of the utmost importance to us and is currently on the table of both parliament and the council and will have to be concluded by next summer. finally, let me stress the importance of the new europe 2020 strategy for growth and jobs, which plays an important role in getting us out of the crisis. the belgian presidency has been keen to move forward with its implementation, mr president of the commission, in order to lay the foundations for a lasting economic recovery. beyond these economic issues, let me address two more points. the european council will discuss the union's relations with its strategic partners. the foreign affairs council, chaired by mrs ashton, prepared progress reports on three of its partners, the united states, china and russia. the european council will therefore listen carefully to the presentation by the high representative on the union's relations with its strategic partners. the high representative will also be invited to continue this approach with other partners, such as ukraine, africa, india and brazil, and to report in march 2011 on the state of play of her contacts with our partners. finally, the application for accession to the union submitted by montenegro. the general affairs council welcomed the commission's opinion on montenegro. the country has made progress in meeting the political criteria set by the copenhagen european council and the requirements of the stabilisation and association process. notwithstanding the need for further efforts, in particular in the implementation of the seven key priorities set out in the commission's opinion and taking into account the commission's proposal, the council recommended that montenegro be granted candidate country status. the issue of granting the candidate country status will be considered by this european council.
president of the commission. − mr president, president of the council, honourable members, this week’s european council will focus on two main goals: to agree on the key features of a future permanent european stability mechanism for the euro area and on the limited treaty change that will make this mechanism legally waterproof. i therefore hope and expect this european council to focus on delivery, steadying the course and strengthening the consensus. in reaching an agreement, this european council will also send a signal of unity, solidarity and unambiguous support for the european project, but it will require a lot of hard work to get there. we all know that at the moment there is a lot at stake for the european union and the euro area in particular. many people are looking to the european union for answers: the markets for one, our partners in the world for another, but most importantly, our citizens. what are they expecting? how can we best reassure them? for me the answer is clear. we need to show that the european union is in control of events, that we have a course of action that we are sticking to, and that we speak with one voice and act as one. what we do not need is a beauty contest between leaders, a cacophony of diverging scenarios, or announcements that are not followed by action. yes, we are facing serious challenges but, if you stand back and look at the facts, the european union is meeting those challenges head on this year. we faced two particular issues with greece and ireland. in both cases we took the decisions needed. the reality is that in both situations the eu was able to act but we need to put far-reaching reforms in place to ensure that such situations do not arise again in the future. real european economic governance is a necessary precondition for this. the economic governance package should therefore be seen as the key building block in a system which gives europeans and the markets confidence that the right structures are in place. i hope that this parliament will continue to treat these commission proposals as a priority, so that they can be fully implemented by the middle of next year. our future system will be one that rests on individual and collective efforts, responsibility and solidarity. we are moving fast in this direction. at the same time, public finances must be consolidated. sound public finances are needed to restore the confidence which is so essential for growth. in many member states, the current course of fiscal policy weighs heavily on the long-term sustainability of public finances, and requires corrective measures. of course, we need to look beyond fiscal consolidation towards promoting growth, and we are sowing the seeds of europe’s future growth through the europe 2020 strategy. this offers a real growth prospective for europe. i see more and more member states fully grasping the potential of europe 2020. let us build on that by accelerating growth-enhancing reforms. taken seriously, europe 2020 can direct our local, national and european economies towards tomorrow’s sources of growth. we are working hard to bring forward the first annual growth survey in one month’s time. i am confident that this will be a major theme for this parliament next year. so too will be the future budget of the union, and how its great potential can be used to help the task of boosting growth and creating jobs. we must also look at our banking system and take the necessary action in order to ensure that banks are in a position to finance the economy appropriately, particularly smes. when it comes to stabilising economies, much of our action was ad hoc or temporary. another important element of our approach for far-reaching reforms must be a permanent stability mechanism. that is the objective of the european stability mechanism. after intense consultations, which went very well, we were able to come forward with an outline for this mechanism at the end of last month. i am confident this will be endorsed by the european council this week, although the precise contours will have to be worked out over the coming weeks. the mechanism should also be supported by a decision to move forward with a limited and focused treaty change. now that there is a consensus between the member states to take the treaty change route, this approach must be swiftly implemented. the purpose of the treaty change is very specific. it is a straightforward, pragmatic amendment to meet a specific need. it needs no more than a simple change to implement it. so let us resist the temptation to overcomplicate or to make artificial linkages with other subjects, and let us not allow ourselves to be distracted from the task in hand. there is massive political will behind the euro. both the temporary mechanism and now the permanent mechanism are key decisions which show that member states are as willing as ever to put their weight behind the stability and integrity of the euro. all of these elements – economic governance, fiscal consolidation, securing growth-enhancing reforms, effective banks, the european financial stability facility, and its successor, the european stability mechanism – are interconnected. they must be approached as a whole put together in an articulated way, so as to create a comprehensive response to the crisis, and to ensure that nothing like it ever happens again. the action that the european central bank is taking is, of course, a vital contribution to this goal. everyone agrees that the action taken this year, most obviously for greece and ireland, is also in the wider interests of the whole european union and all its member states. it rests heavily on fundamental principles of solidarity, of collective responsibility, of sharing the risks and bringing mutual support at times of need. i know that these principles are close to the heart of this parliament. they are close to my heart too, so i can understand why other ideas have been floated to give form to these principles through other possible mechanisms. on this point let me be clear. eurobonds in themselves are an interesting idea. the commission itself put forward the idea back in 2008 when assessing the first ten years of emu, but we are in a crisis situation and we already have financial mechanisms to address this crisis, like the european financial stability facility. these are far from exhausted and can be improved and adapted far more quickly than any alternatives, however interesting they may be. so while i can understand that you want to think about every possible solution, this is a time for immediate action. let us not kill the idea for the future, but concentrate at this stage on what can be the solution to achieve a consensus among member states and can be done quickly and decisively. let us work together to end this year with a message of confidence that the european union has a unified vision for its economy and is putting this vision in place. let us do it with a clear sense of our destination and let that destination be clear as well: a strong and stable euro area in an ever closer european union.
i would like to thank the president of the council and the president of the commission, mr chastel and mr barroso for their introduction. we're talking about something very important. overcoming the crisis, creating jobs is the most important thing for our citizens. the european council will be dealing with this in the first instance tomorrow and the day after.
it's almost the end of the year. it's worth taking a closer look at our actions. let's go over our findings, our statements, and answer the question, what have we done with it? let each one do it at his own level of decision and responsibility. it's good that we want to put in the treaty some provisions to discipline our actions. but we still have the stability and growth pact. why didn't we follow the rules? why did the commission and its services not react earlier in the case of greece or ireland? the european union is a multi-national, democratic institution. so it's not as capable of operating as individual countries -- i'm thinking of china, the united states, or other countries. hence the lack of decisive action to defend the euro. so we need to develop a new approach to economic governance, to create a genuine economic union, to strengthen coordination, to unify financial and even fiscal policies.
we focus on the eurozone, but 150 million citizens remain outside the eurozone, or one in three eu citizens outside the eurozone. the health of the euro and the health of the euro area is therefore important to us. we want to be very clear: less national governments, more union, more parliament. in poland, the opinion of the german chancellor is much more important than that of president van rompuy, and the high-pitched voice of prime minister cameron is more important than that of president barroso. we need a pact of stability, a pact of stable european solidarity. martin schulz is right to want more europe in mind, new instruments in action, such as a financial transaction tax, euro bonds, banking supervision and coordinated budgetary discipline among the member states.
president of the council. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, personally i think that the commission has given a lot of answers to this very informative debate, especially since parliament is very much involved in the response to this crisis. i would like to add two points to the commission's remarks on what will be at stake at this summit tomorrow and the day after. first, a point on economic governance and the involvement of the european parliament. as you know, the presidency has already been in contact with the european parliament, with those responsible for economic governance in this parliament. and the presidency wishes to establish the best possible cooperation with this parliament, in particular through informal consultations, before the formal negotiation phase begins. in view of the importance of this matter and the possible repercussions on the markets, the presidency, as has been said, has undertaken to work on this matter in a fast-track manner, as requested by the european council. and to speed up the work, the presidency has set up a working group to deal exclusively with this issue. the group began its deliberations at the end of november, following the attention paid to this matter by the economic and financial committee. the second element on which our heads of state will be concentrating tomorrow and the day after tomorrow is the future permanent crisis management mechanism. i can understand a number of questions about this mechanism, about the scale of the response to the crisis. yesterday at noon, around president van rompuy, in the general affairs council, many of us were asking ourselves a number of questions. i can testify to you how much the member states want to respond to this crisis, how much they are aware that it is the overall european market, the euro, that is at stake today, not just one country and then another. the answer must be global and we must reduce the uncertainties in this market. but i also think we should not create expectations that cannot be met at the moment. and so, everyone went with their new idea of how to respond to the crisis. the fact that a number of member states must agree on any new idea does not seem to be the best solution today. i must tell you that what will be important tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, friday, at the conclusion of this european council, is firstly that we can give the markets a clear signal of the willingness of the member states to respond to the financial crisis, to the euro crisis today; the second is to affirm the will to set up a simple mechanism for amending the treaties. you know exactly why this mechanism must be simple because of the ratification that has to take place in the different member states; and finally, to set up this future permanent crisis management mechanism which must also be transparent because it too must be unassailable, particularly before the karlsruhe court.
in writing. the next european council is likely to decide on the shape of the permanent crisis mechanism to protect the financial stability of the euro area after 2013 and to start the process of amending the union's founding treaties. while i understand the need for extraordinary action triggered by the economic crisis i am concerned about the pace of change and the way some countries are trying to impose solutions on others. some ideas such as the issue of eurobonds are rejected without a proper discussion. i believe that despite the exceptional situation, decisions of importance to the european union should be taken in a calm manner, respecting the principle of solidarity and the equal rights of all its members. i would also like to support the position of the polish government on the change in the way the public debt is calculated. poland (as well as ten other eu countries) has undertaken reforms of pension systems that now generate significant costs for national budgets. in the case of poland, the reforms were forced by the growing inefficiency of the old system, which was causing increasing costs. the current debt is therefore not a sign of economic failure but the result of changes whose long-term objective is to reduce budgetary expenditure on pensions. i hope that the representatives of the member states will agree to the changes suggested by poland. thank you for your attention.
president of the council. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, and in particular the rapporteurs, one of the most important promises of the lisbon treaty was to bring europe closer to its citizens. i think it is not necessary to mention here the examples that showed us before and after the signing of the lisbon treaty in december 2009 how necessary this rapprochement is. it is therefore not surprising that any measure which pursues the aim of involving citizens in the construction of europe is a priority for all the institutions, including the council. i am therefore particularly pleased to be able to address you on the regulation implementing the citizens' initiative, the flagship innovation of the lisbon treaty in terms of better citizen participation in decision-making at european level. this regulation was of course one of the priorities of the belgian presidency of the council, because it is perhaps this citizens' initiative that most symbolizes the new role of the citizen in the union after lisbon. the rapporteur has already said that a citizen's initiative allows one million european citizens to submit a legislative proposal to the commission, with the obligation for the commission to study it and take a decision on it. we must stop for a moment to appreciate this innovation we are making today, which is nothing more than the first element - as mr lamassoure said - of participatory democracy at the supranational level. it is not only a first at european level, it is simply a world first. let us return to the legislative matter we are discussing today. i can only welcome the compromise reached on this regulation in the negotiations between the three institutions and, of course, i also welcome the spirit of cooperation and the willingness to compromise which prevailed in the three institutions throughout these negotiations. i would of course like to personally thank the rapporteurs of the afco and peti committees, mrs gurmai of course, mr lamassoure, mrs wallis and mr häfner for their efforts and constructive contributions in the preparation of this regulation. i am particularly pleased that the vote in the afco committee on monday confirmed the text adopted by the institutions. if the vote in the afco committee confirms the same text, this agreement at first reading can of course be regarded as a model for rapid and effective legislation at european level. i would also like to thank commissioner šefčovič for his willingness and his willingness to help. in short, i feel that we have enriched each other on this issue by the many opinions expressed at the negotiating table and it is the european citizen who has benefited from this trilogue and this agreement. i am convinced that the compromise reached between the institutions is a good compromise, not only in the sense that each institution has been able to obtain the elements that were dear to it - as we have just mentioned - but also in the sense that it will result in a good regulation which will make it possible to organise citizens' initiatives in a flexible and efficient way. on behalf of the council, i welcome the willingness of the other two institutions to take account of the needs and constraints on the member states in carrying out their task, namely to verify the signatures, which must obviously be real signatures, and therefore that there is no fraud or manipulation in the collection. it was also important to allow member states sufficient time to adopt the measures of national law necessary for the application of the regulation. i understand, of course, and share parliament's concern that the citizens' initiative should be implemented as soon as possible. on the other hand, it is clear that national measures are necessary for the smooth running of this initiative and it is therefore inevitable to allow time for their adoption in accordance with the procedures in force. i welcome the fact that the afco committee has also agreed with the council's position that the age of participation in a citizens' initiative should be the same as the age of voting in the european elections. the council has always considered that the citizens' initiative, as an element of citizen participation in european decisions, must go hand in hand with the other element, which is the election of the european parliament. finally, to sum up, i welcome the compromise reached in the negotiations and i can of course only recommend that you adopt it at the vote just now and i wish the citizens' initiative all the success it is predicted to have. i see that the first initiatives are already being prepared, and i hope that many of them will bring new ideas and new inspiration to the construction of europe. once again, thank you very much for your cooperation on this matter. (applause) i would like to thank
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i am also very happy to be here with you this morning because we have accomplished very good things together. just one year after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, we are holding a discussion on the forthcoming adoption of the regulation on the citizens’ initiative. as mr lamassoure said, we are introducing a totally new layer of participatory democracy which will complement the representative democracy in which we operate in the european union. but for the first time we are offering citizens an innovative way of expressing their wishes, interacting with the institutions and shaping the agenda of the european union. i believe it is a very important as a means of widening the european space. it is very important in terms of bringing more european topics to the national capitals and creating european-wide debate. we all know that the european union needs this very much. to achieve the potential benefits the lisbon treaty and the citizens’ initiative can bring us, we need to establish a clear procedure. it was very clear, from the public consultations and the consultations with the european parliament, that we needed a procedure which would be easy, understandable, user-friendly and well-balanced. i think we have achieved this goal. that was really thanks to the in-depth discussions we had, very often here in the european parliament. i would like to thank all of you for organising a number of hearings, not only in the committee on constitutional affairs (afco) and the committee on petitions (peti) but also in most of the political groups, because these hearings have been very important for all of us. i can assure you that they served as a very important source of inspiration and new creative ideas which, in the end, helped us improve the initial commission proposal. i appreciate also the innovative way in which the european parliament dealt with this initiative. we had four rapporteurs from two different committees. alain lamassoure called them the gang of four. i must say it was a very nice gang. it was a pleasure working with all of you. it was a pleasure for me to receive your new creative input into our common thinking, because each of you approached the subject from a different angle and brought your own experience to bear on how to improve the initial proposal of the commission. i really appreciate it. thanks to this new innovative approach we achieved broad consensus within the european parliament. i am particularly pleased about the very clear vote in afco. one of the important ideas which came from the rapporteurs was what kind of follow-up we should give to the citizens’ initiative. i believe the idea that an appropriately high-level commission representative should receive the organisers of the initiative after its successful completion came from the european parliament. the idea of organising hearings as a compulsory stage during which we could discuss the goals of the initiative more broadly also came from this chamber. i would like to stress that we are very pleased and satisfied that these public hearings will be organised on neutral ground, here at the european parliament, because this will ensure that the commission will not be in the uncomfortable position of being judge and jury at the same time. the commission will be represented at those hearings at an appropriately high level, where possible by the commissioner or director-general with responsibility for the subject, and will carefully follow the debate. i would like to assure you, and through you all european citizens, that we in the commission are absolutely conscious of the importance and the value of one million citizens supporting a particular proposal. we will treat it with respect and great care. the only regret i have in this debate is that we will need to wait a little while before the citizens’ initiative can be fully used. but we have to recognise that, if we want to offer our citizens an improved service, we need to change some internal rules in the member states and we have to develop the software for the online collection system. i am sure we will do it in the prescribed time, however, and european citizens will have a chance to use this initiative as soon as possible. i greatly appreciate, therefore, the fact that we are aiming at agreement on the first reading, because this will allow our citizens to use this new instrument much faster than initially expected. let me thank you once again for the excellent cooperation with all the rapporteurs, with ms gurmai, with our chair, ms wallis, with mr häfner and mr lamassoure. as i said, all of them brought very new and very important ideas to make this proposal better than the initial proposal from the commission. i would also like to thank personally olivier chastel, because he demonstrated his enormous ability for consensus building. i know how difficult it was in the council, how many divergences he had to overcome, and thanks to his efforts and thanks to the excellent work of the belgian presidency we now have this wide consensus also in the council.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on culture and education. - i would like to thank the rapporteurs for the preparation of the text we are voting on today. i hope that today we will put this mechanism in the hands of the citizens for further consideration by the commission. i agree, of course. it's as simple as it gets. what we are voting on today is the result of a compromise, a compromise which is sometimes difficult, and i understand that alain lamassoure and the other rapporteurs have achieved on our behalf what is real and what is possible. i regretfully withdraw from the provision that gives 16-year-olds the right to sign an initiative, but i will support this text in a negotiated form because i am convinced that we should not delay any longer, we should put the initiative in the hands of the citizens. i believe that today we are creating another element precisely to realize what the late bronisław geremek has spoken about many times in this room. europe is united, time for active europeans. and today we're taking a good step in that direction. we don't write the bible here. in three years' time, the procedures proposed today can be revised and improved, provided they are used, and i strongly encourage their use.
as emma mcclarkin said, our political group will support this bill because it's good and it's worth supporting in this vote. i am glad that in the course of its work, several concerns have been eliminated, including the tightening of the protection of personal data, the abolition of the age of 16 to 18. that's a good thing. but i do have a few critical remarks. the first is that, as my colleague emma mcclarkin said, it is indeed the commission that will decide which projects are accepted and which are not, and so again the people's vote will be dependent on the officials, even if they have very good will. the second thing to consider is, is the 300,000 votes needed for this initiative and a quarter of the countries that are supposed to be represented - is that too low a threshold? in poland, for such an initiative, 100,000 signatures are needed. on the scale of the whole european union, which is much larger poles make up only 8% of this group it seems to be debatable. but despite these doubts, the initiative is worth supporting and the ecr will certainly vote in favour.
i would like to join the voices of support and praise for this initiative. however, expressing certain doubts and comments is not a sign of lack of support, but only a concern that the initiative finds its proper meaning. i would like to point out that many of the opportunities and hopes, but also the fears that have been raised - and this was mentioned by mr migalski among others - are that this instrument, which is so necessary, so enriching and complementary to democracy, should not be abused in practice. paradoxically, this instrument can be easily abused in practice not only by extremists but also by very powerful, powerful lobbies, because we believe that the threshold of one million votes is not a great threshold, given the demographic potential of the union. however, if we take into account that the decision whether or not to adopt an initiative will be largely dependent on arbitrary assessment, this may also be the subject of serious criticism from citizens themselves. so in conclusion, i think we should speed up the work, prioritize it, but at the same time, we need a very thorough, very prudent, very wise analysis of this project.
the european citizens' initiative is intended to be a tool for citizens to participate more fully in the life of the union, which is intended to strengthen the clearly strained link between the european union and its citizens. name, address, nationality and signature i fully agree that this should be sufficient to ensure that the person signing is real and has not signed twice. the absence of a requirement for identification by means of identity cards, which unfortunately has not been mentioned, could have a real impact on the creation of a citizen-friendly instrument. in times when the protection of personal data raises particular concerns, the collection of sensitive personal data such as identification numbers may discourage many citizens from signing up to the initiative. officials who promote the requirement to show proof of identity have clearly underestimated this issue. enabling european citizens to put forward proposals for new legislation on a socially important issue is a priceless part of democracy and i feel honoured to be part of the process of providing this instrument to the people of europe.
in writing. with the lisbon treaty, we gave citizenship to eu citizens. the second step is to grant eu citizens a citizens' initiative. it's a rare moment when the legislative or executive branches of government give some of their power to the citizens. that's a lot of maturity. that's how we're gonna address the democratic deficit. we are not only based on representative democracy, but also on participatory democracy. the previous development policy, the consultation of citizens in the decision-making process, did not always meet the expectations of the citizens of the european union. the citizens' initiative, which was a difficult compromise, first ensured full transparency. second, we simplified the whole system. we also made an innovation in the way that we could submit electronic signatures. today we also have a great deal of promotion of the citizens' initiative, both by the commission, the european parliament and the member states. it is necessary to consider whether openness to the citizens' initiative may be threatened by demagogic or populist proposals. i don't think he did. each of the citizens' initiatives will require increased responsibility from the commission and the european parliament.
the next item is the vote. (results and other voting details: see minutes)
thank you, lord! we'll take that into account in the future and look into such matters. this is very important.
i think my colleagues deserve a little explanation. we are voting on the draft presented to us by the council as it stands, because it is exactly the same as the position adopted by the committee on budgets last week. it's consistent with what we've negotiated in the very long, nine-month negotiations. i would like to take this opportunity to thank, first of all, the specialised rapporteurs in the committees of the european parliament, and thank you for the trust and support you have always shown me. i thank you for the fact that today we are able to adopt the 2011 budget so that it can be implemented efficiently from 1 january next year.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, parliament has just approved the council's position on the draft budget for 2011 without amendments. i can of course only welcome, on behalf of the council, our common agreement on the 2011 budget. (applause) i would like to thank
i'd like to hear a statement, please. it's important to me. for the first time in history, we have followed the lisbon treaty procedure. last year we used a simplified procedure. this was the first time that the full lisbon treaty procedure had been used. i therefore declare the following: the european parliament approved the council's position of 10 december 2010 on the draft budget presented by the commission on 26 november 2010. the budgetary procedure has been completed in accordance with article 314 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. in accordance with article 314 (4) (a) of the treaty, i hereby declare that the budget of the european union for the financial year 2011 has been definitively adopted and i shall now formally sign this document.
dear president-in-office chastel, dear high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy/vice-president of the commission lady ashton, dear guests,
the commission has also received a number of complaints from the member states. mr jerzy buzek, president of the european parliament, vice-presidents and members of this democratic and multinational forum. unfortunately for the tolerance that we so badly need on this convulsed planet, i cannot be with you in the name of the rebellious cuban people and that part of the national citizenry which has already lost its terror to the totalitarian government which has been repressing us for the shameful 52 years, and whose most recent example is the martyr orlando zapata tamayo. to the chagrin of those who misrule us in our own country, i consider that the fact that i cannot leave and return voluntarily to this island where i was born is, in itself, the most convincing testimony that unfortunately nothing has changed in the autocratic system of my country. within the minds of the current cuban rulers, we, their citizens, are what my ancestors were kidnapped in africa and forcibly brought to america in past centuries. for me or any other ordinary citizen to travel abroad, he needs a "freedom card", as slaves once did, only now it is called a "white card". i hope that you will not be fooled by the siren song of a cruel regime of savage communism whose only aspiration, after pretending to make economic changes, is that the european union and the european parliament should lift the common position in order to benefit from the credits and investments with which the third world countries are helped in the cotonou agreements. i am sure that next to you will be former political prisoners or prisoners of conscience recently released from the brutal communist regime. it would be a mistake to think they were released. they and their families are enduring a psychological exile, as their loved ones were extorted by the neo-stalinist cuban government. we, the peaceful opponents from the interior of the country, endure with stoicism and rationality all the material and spiritual difficulties, as well as the dangers of losing our freedom and even our lives, as part of the most disadvantaged national population. we all suffer in here, but we don't complain. that is why we look forward to your support. respected members, i ask you not to give in to the demands of the cuban ruling elite unless the following five points are met: first, to continue the release without exile of all political prisoners of conscience, and to publicly commit to never imprisoning non-violent political opponents. secondly, to immediately stop the violent beatings and threats against peaceful opponents inside the country by military and paramilitary supporters of the regime. thirdly, to announce that all cuban laws that contradict the universal declaration of human rights will be studied and eliminated. fourthly, to provide in daily practice the facilities for the creation of opposition political parties, media not subordinated to the system of state socialism, independent trade unions and any other kind of peaceful social entities. fifth, publicly accept that all cubans living in the diaspora have the right to participate in the cultural, economic, political and social life of cuba. at this crucial historical moment that my country is going through, you, along with all men and women of good will in the world, must be aware of the continuing social explosions and protests that have arisen within the country due to frustration with the arrogance of a government that could give the order to kill my compatriots. may god not allow an unnecessary civil war to break out among cubans for the obfuscation of not accepting that state socialism as a political model has been and is a failure in all the geographical areas where it was intended to be implemented, a matter recognized before the foreign press by the historical leader himself of the misnamed cuban revolution. the elderly cuban rulers do not wish to understand, in their daily contempt for their ruled, that they must be public servants, and all authentic public servants give their compatriots the possibility of replacing or ratifying them. no ruler should pretend to be served by his ruled, as is the case in cuba. my brothers and sisters in the struggle and in the democratic ideas, both those who are still in prison and those who are apparently free in the streets and those who went into harsh exile, we will continue our unequal nonviolent struggle against the castro oppressors. and if god helps us, we will win it without bloodshed. if i do anything in the company of my fellow dissidents, it is to banish from my soul any grudge against my political adversaries. one thing that makes us superior human beings for the reconstruction of the homeland is that in the course of this struggle i have learned to be guided by the words of the first known dissident, jesus christ: "love your enemies". thank you to the european parliament for not abandoning the cuban people in this struggle of more than half a century towards democracy. the andrei sakharov prize for freedom of conscience 2010, awarded to me personally, i only accept it because i feel like a small portion of that rebellion that this people possesses to which i proudly and honourably belong. thank you very much, honourable members, for this gesture of not forgetting the calamities we have suffered and thus bringing the light of freedom closer to my homeland. may god grant that reconciliation between his children will soon be achieved in cuba and that it will be blessed with democracy. graduated in psychology, guillermo fariñas hernández, librarian and independent journalist, former political prisoner on three occasions. (applause) i would like to thank
the rapporteur. - a few months ago, the european parliament gave the council its consent for the first time to the enhanced cooperation procedure. for the first time in the history of the european union. this is a very important step, opening up a whole new formula for cooperation between parts of the european union, if it is not possible to obtain the consent of all 27 member states. this is a very important decision. today we confirmed that this procedure is working well. i would like to thank the council very warmly for the position it has taken in cooperation with the european parliament. it's a perfect example of interagency cooperation. the parliament was only consultative when it worked on this regulation, but the frequency of meetings and the fact that the council took into account all the proposals that were drawn up in the european parliament, voted on in the legal affairs committee and incorporated in the final document is a perfect example of a procedure that bodes well for enhanced cooperation in the future. i also thank the council for its strong support for our request for a rapid revision of the brussels iia regulation, which is necessary to resolve, for example, the forum necessitatis issue, which allows the member states to maintain certainty about the functioning of their internal legal systems and gives our citizens hope that in the future they will be able to make a free choice not only of law but also of the court. i thank my colleagues and fellow co-rapporteurs on the legal affairs committee and the opinion committees.
in writing. - first of all, i would like to express my satisfaction that the european parliament and the council have agreed on the financing of the lifelong learning programme and the competitiveness and innovation programme. i am particularly interested in the lifelong learning programme. it comprises four sectoral programmes. the erasmus programme, which allows for student exchanges on a mass scale, is particularly important in my view. this is extremely important both in terms of acquiring new knowledge and skills and in terms of making new contacts and learning about the cultures of the member states. comenius plays a similar role for school-age children. these programmes not only pay off for the european economy, but also ensure the creation of a european consciousness based on a transnational network of contacts. these programmes should be given high priority regardless of the budgetary situation. they are an investment that will benefit the european union in many ways. not just economically, but culturally and politically. the decision to help palestine has a different dimension, but i also consider it to be justified.
in writing. − an agreement was reached between the council and the european parliament on the 2011 budget. i voted in favour of the budget because of the political and institutional demands, which include a stronger role for the european parliament in the negotiations on the new financial perspective after 2013 and participation in the debate on new sources of revenue, including the european tax. the budget has the added advantage of being more flexible in the face of unforeseen circumstances. we have eliminated the threat of acting on the basis of a provisional budget, which would have paralysed the functioning of the union to a large extent. this would be particularly unfavourable at a time when the economic crisis and the implementation of the treaty of lisbon need to be tackled intensively. the socialist and democrat group in the european parliament has a lot to be thankful for.
in writing. − the vote on the 2011 budget shows that a compromise within the european union is possible. the draft financial plan for 2011 was accepted and voted on thanks to the goodwill of all the institutions involved. this compromise is particularly valuable given that the decision-making procedures are new since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and that, for the first time in history, the european parliament has co-decided on expenditure alongside the council of the european union and the european commission. it is not an ideal budget, but i believe that it has been allocated in a sensible way and covers all the priorities of the european union. in voting for the 2011 budget, i also expressed my support for further development and the idea of european integration.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? the threat of a provisional budget for 2011 has mobilized the european parliament and the council of the european union to intensify the debate, the outcome of which - the draft budget put to the vote today - can be considered a pragmatic compromise. the negotiations between the institutions have led to the adoption of most of the demands made by parliament. we have received the assurance from the council that it is willing to cooperate in the preparation of the financial perspective for 2014-2020, which will be the practical implementation of the provisions of the lisbon treaty. parliament also reached agreement with the prime ministers of hungary, poland, denmark and cyprus, the countries that will hold the eu council presidency for the next two years. we also welcome the council's decision to maintain the flexibility mechanism in the eu budget at 0.03% of eu gdp. these funds will finance key expenditure not foreseen during the negotiation of the previous financial perspective, such as the european external action service or the galileo system. the european parliament's concession is to postpone the debate on the future sources of funding for the european union, which the european commission is also calling for. the idea of relieving national contributions to the eu budget has fallen on deaf ears in the face of strong opposition from a group of countries concerned about public reaction. we will probably return to this debate in the summer of 2011, when the commission presents some new options for eu funding.
in writing. − i welcome the fact that the eu budget for 2011 has been adopted by a large majority. the agreement reached by the european parliament and the eu council avoided the so-called budgetary interim, which could have undermined the implementation of the eu's cohesion and agricultural policies. this is particularly good news for polish local authorities, farmers and businesses, who are increasingly using eu funds, as despite the economic crisis payments will increase by 2.91% compared to 2010. i am also pleased to see increased funding for the priorities adopted by the ep, such as youth, education, research and innovation.
in writing. − i am pleased that despite many complications, the eu budget for 2011 was agreed and adopted following the council's amendments. this is very important not only to avoid budgetary burdens but above all to allow for the safe programming of cohesion policy expenditure, which is of great importance to eu citizens and above all to the beneficiaries of eu funds. i would also like to stress that the cohesion policy measures have been increased by 10%. what is important is that we have reached a political agreement and that we have demonstrated european solidarity, which now gives us financial stability in 2011.
in writing. - i would like to congratulate the rapporteur for tackling so thoroughly the difficult issue of the choice of law applicable to divorce and legal separation. the sensitivity of this issue is demonstrated by the fact that the rome iii regulation is the first example of enhanced cooperation in the eu's history conducted under treaty procedures. the territorial scope of the regulation will therefore be limited to 14 of the 27 eu countries, excluding poland. i believe that by introducing the principle of the choice of law applicable to divorce, rome iii will contribute to greater predictability and legal certainty. however, given the limited scope of this regulation it will concern only the law applicable to international divorces it is also necessary to answer the question of which court has jurisdiction to rule on the case. this problem is the subject of another regulation at eu level brussels ii bis. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that it is necessary to amend this regulation as soon as possible in order to introduce the so-called forum necessitatis principle. it will allay the fears of many countries that their courts will be forced to grant divorce to unions that are not recognised as marriage by their legal system, and thus encourage them to adopt european-wide rules on international divorce, which will no doubt make life easier for many eu citizens.
in writing. - a mechanism for monitoring and supervising credit rating agencies is needed. we have to acknowledge that the credit rating agencies have contributed to the crisis in part. in 2011, we will receive a proposal from the commission on various additional measures on credit ratings, and this is possible after the adoption of this report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − one of the main aims of the european citizens' initiative is to bring the european institutions closer to the citizens and to make it easier for the average european to enjoy his or her rights and privileges. this will certainly improve the lives of the people of the member states and help to create a pro-social image of the union. the project also aims to make the organisation of meetings and the collection of signatures as simple as possible. if europeans want to speak out on a matter that they feel is important, it is our duty to ensure that they are heard and that their requests are considered. that's what real democracy is all about.
in writing. - dear colleagues! i welcome the outcome of today's vote on the citizens' initiative. the lisbon treaty, by introducing the european citizens' initiative, becomes a legislative tool for eu citizens, but we must remember that collecting a million signatures does not yet mean that a new law will be created. the process requires the whole legislative process of the eu, and we members must ensure that the procedures are simplified to avoid disappointment here. i think we should have a good information campaign in the member states about this instrument, so that the issues raised by the eu citizens' initiative are in line with what is contained in the treaties and what is in line with the eu's values.
in writing. - with the draft citizens' initiative adopted today, we are putting into practice an important element of the lisbon treaty, which will allow citizens to participate directly in the debate on european union. this is particularly important for the european parliament, which is elected by universal suffrage. it is now our task to take this tool seriously, as it serves to further democratize public life in europe. it would not be good if it were a dead law and if citizens were to have the impression that we are giving them the opportunity to participate in a legislative initiative only in theory. this will be a serious test for the european institutions as to how much they really serve the citizen and not themselves. it's good that after three years of this law, we will have the opportunity to revise the provisions that have not been effective enough to be a mechanism that actually guarantees democratic discourse.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the commission's work programme for 2011. in my speech i already raised the need to develop a draft directive on violence against women, to implement the stockholm programme quickly and efficiently and to include sport in next year's budget. it is essential to resume work on the non-discrimination directive. i call on the commission and the member states to take decisive steps in this direction in 2011. while eu citizens eagerly await the directive, some member states continue to question the rationale for its adoption. it is incomprehensible that there is no awareness of the need for a single anti-discrimination law that would ensure equal treatment for all people, not just for selected social groups. i am not convinced by the financial arguments, which emphasise the high cost of introducing a directive for disabled people. even in times of crisis, europe must remain equal for all its citizens.
in writing. − we have raised and continue to raise issues related to the violation of human rights, the principles of democracy and discrimination against national minorities in the european parliament on many occasions. we award the sakharov prize, support humanitarian action and strive for equal rights and privileges for people not only in europe but around the world. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the polish minority in lithuania, which represents nearly 7% of the total population, continues to be discriminated against and its rights are notoriously violated. i once again appeal to the members of the european parliament, the president of the european parliament, the commission and the european council here today to ensure that the lithuanian government effectively respects the principles of democracy and the dignity of its citizens.
in writing. − i supported ms gál's report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union for 2009. i would draw your attention to paragraph 13, which calls for the full and consistent implementation of the stockholm programme. in september, president barosso assured us that the commission was working intensively on this issue. it is important that their timetable and fluidity be maintained. all europeans must enjoy the same rights. in the 21st century, there is no place for discrimination in europe! i would ask the hungarian and polish presidencies to tell me what action they intend to take to ensure the successful implementation of the stockholm programme. we must fulfill our obligations to the citizens and implement the laws we create. i would also stress that, in accordance with paragraph 39 of the resolution, member states should continuously train national judges in the field of fundamental rights and freedoms, including the new elements introduced by the treaty of lisbon. even the best law will not change anything if it is not properly interpreted and implemented.
in writing. - advertising is an essential tool for the proper functioning of the free market. it brings tangible benefits not only to the economy but also to consumers, who are provided with a variety of products to choose from through advertising. unfortunately, the constant development of new technologies, especially the internet, has resulted in an increase in the use of unethical and dishonest advertising practices by businesses. as the rapporteur notes, the existing legislation does not sufficiently cover all issues. steps need to be taken to effectively protect european consumers and to educate them about their rights. particular protection should be given to groups most exposed to unethical practices, such as children, young people and the elderly. i therefore agree with the proposals put forward by the rapporteur.
in writing. - advertising, as the rapporteur emphasises, is an important sector of the economy. on the other hand, it also carries many dangers. i fully support the opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality that discriminatory content should be removed from advertising. it is also of the utmost importance - as the rapporteur points out - to protect groups particularly vulnerable to advertising manipulation: children, adolescents and the elderly. i support the rapporteur's proposal that an educational programme be set up throughout the european union for children to learn about the mechanisms used in advertising. consideration should be given to the creation of similar programmes targeting the other two vulnerable groups: adolescents and the elderly. it may be appropriate to include other age groups in this type of education. in view of these comments, i decided to support the report on the impact of advertising on consumer behaviour.
in writing. - in today's vote i voted in favour of the report by mr bendtsen on the review of the action plan for the rationalisation of energy consumption. there is no doubt that improving energy efficiency is the most cost-effective and fastest way to reduce carbon emissions. the fact is that buildings account for around 40% of energy consumption and around 36% of greenhouse gas emissions in the eu. therefore, i believe that one of the most important actions is to increase the energy efficiency of buildings, by initiating renovation activities of existing equipment and installing more efficient common infrastructure in buildings and heating systems. i voted to fund building insulation with the structural funds.
in writing. − it is impossible not to agree with the rapporteur's thesis that 'improving energy efficiency is the most cost-effective and fastest way to reduce co2 and other gas emissions'. at the same time, energy efficiency measures contribute to economic growth and job creation. this is the case, for example, in the new member states, where the scale of the challenges is enormous. it is also worth mentioning that the european union's support for the thermal modernisation of buildings is one of the most visible elements of cohesion policy. the modernised buildings are one of the best examples of the european union in the region. in this respect, i support the report's call for increased investment in energy efficiency.
in writing. − the action plan for the rationalisation of energy consumption is a cost-effective way to increase the competitiveness of the economy and the security of energy supply to the european union. the plan to rationalise energy consumption is also a great opportunity for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. the report by mr bendtsen rightly draws attention to ways of using energy efficiently and effectively without having to reduce its consumption, which is still growing in the member states. the use of modern energy technologies in construction and transport can lead to significant savings across the union. however, to make such solutions a reality, we need an information campaign for citizens, but also a reduction in the cost of energy-efficient technologies. the high cost of innovative devices is often the biggest obstacle to their use. the adoption of binding 2020 targets is difficult for many member states to implement. however, we must bear in mind that each member state is at a different stage in the development of its energy policy. the binding target of 20% of total energy consumption from renewable sources by 2020 may prove too challenging, especially for the 12 new member states.
in writing. − ecr meps believe that energy efficiency has a crucial part to play in helping the eu meet its renewable energy and emissions reduction targets. it also has a crucial role to play in ensuring our energy security and contributing to our economic competitiveness. we support much of the content of this report, such as the focus on smart grids and metering, financing from the eib and the private sector, and also the potential for r&d to further energy efficiency. ecr meps do not, however, support binding energy efficiency targets. we believe that the eu and member states are already incentivised to implement energy efficiency policies through renewable energy and emissions reduction targets, as well as energy saving targets under the energy services directive. ecr members therefore abstained on this report.
on behalf of the ecr group. i too join in thanking the rapporteur. it was a very good collaboration, which gave a very good report, i think. i think it's worth pointing out one thing, that the most persecuted religious group in the world still is christians, who are discriminated against, attacked, often even killed in almost every geographical latitude. and yet the world is silent. we, the european union, are still not doing enough. i'm very grateful to mrs. catherine ashton for her response to many individual cases recently, but this is a case worth reviewing. our neighbouring countries, such as egypt and algeria, should feel that we cannot develop political dialogue without disadvantaging the religious minorities there. countries like sudan and iraq should be very clear that we will not agree to expand aid or expand free trade agreements until the fundamental right to religious freedom is respected there. a lot has changed for the better in recent years, but we need to continue to be committed to protecting religious freedom around the world, because no one else is going to do it for us. in the european parliament these days we have had the opportunity to meet bishops who have come to the european parliament from iraq, from mosul, from baghdad, to share their experiences. i think we should give them not just a sense of solidarity, but a guarantee of security for the future, so that they feel they can rely on someone. otherwise, we risk our own credibility, because if we can't take care of our friends, we lose credibility in the eyes of the world.
thank you to ms andrikienė, rapporteur for the 2009 report on human rights. this has not been an easy task, because the state of human rights still requires our attention and commitment. in our report, we repeatedly call on the various states and institutions to take concrete action to improve the level of respect for human rights. i think we should check more often whether these institutions are actually doing what the european parliament is trying to do. otherwise, we will have to repeat many of today's remarks in a year's time. we are right to demand respect for fundamental rights, but that is not enough. we also need to be effective, we need to be able to get the executive to actually implement our guidance. i support the rapporteur's proposals for the european external action service to have a directorate for human rights and democracy and for the creation of a post of high representative for human rights. the promotion of democratic values and human rights should be a central tenet of a coherent european union foreign policy. that's probably the most important political message in the report. if we can achieve this, then the next annual reports on human rights in the world will be poorer and poorer, and i hope that this will happen.
i want to thank you very much for the opportunity to speak. well, we're looking at a material today that clearly has two parts, two areas. the first area is an attempt to assess human rights in 2009, the second area is the european union's human rights policy. so we have to answer the question of whether there has been progress in the world in respecting human rights in the past year. unfortunately, the answer to that question is not yes. there was certainly no progress in 2009 on respect for fundamental rights. i am thinking here of the continued use of the death penalty, the persistence of torture in many countries, the violence against women and the fact that hundreds of millions of children are still forced into slavery. now for the second thing. the union. well, there's no dispute as to values and as to goals. the main issue and our concern is that the union's action in the field of human rights protection should be more effective. i would like to agree with all the suggestions made in the report. if our recommendations were to be implemented, the union's action in the field of human rights protection in the world would certainly be much more effective.
madam president! it is true that mrs andrikienė's report is extensive, but i am convinced that it does not cover all the issues that affect the observance of human rights in the world in 2009. the report makes no mention of the growing persecution of christians, not only in third countries but also in europe. the european union has sufficient political and diplomatic instruments to prevent and condemn these phenomena in a categorical and firm manner. the second issue on which the union should not remain silent is the question of respect for human rights in russia. i think that the cooperation agreement with russia that is currently being negotiated is a great moment to raise the issue of human rights in that country in a hard, concrete way. because we cannot forget the people who are persecuted in russia, the politicians, the representatives of ngos, the businessmen, who are persecuted only because they have the courage and the strength to demand the truth about the functioning of their state.
i'm happy about two things. firstly, because human rights have become an integral part of the work of the european external action service, and that is a very good thing. this instrument, the european external action service, should be used precisely to promote human rights and to protect human rights defenders worldwide. and the second thing that pleases me - as a member of the delegation for relations with russia, it is a great pleasure to see that this report includes passages on the respect of human rights in russia and that individual human rights defenders are mentioned. this support from brussels and strasbourg for people who are fighting for human rights in russia is extremely important and i think this report deserves support for the very reason that it treats these people with such attention. i think we should go in that direction. i'm appealing to mrs. ashton.
the debate on the report on the observance of human rights in the world coincides with sad events which confirm that human rights are still being violated. nobel prize liu xiaobo and sakharov prize guillermo fariñas laureates were unable to receive their awards because they were not given permission by their regimes to leave their countries. the visit of the iraqi bishops to the european parliament yesterday is proof that we still have a huge problem with religious persecution. the persecution of christians in the middle east, including the recent terrorist attack on the cathedral in baghdad, shows that new methods of violating fundamental rights are emerging, to which the union should respond appropriately and effectively. i would like to join mr buzek in calling for the safety of christians in iraq to be a priority. we cannot accept the treatment of christians as second-class citizens. how can accession negotiations with turkey continue if the only christian seminary in the country remains closed? with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, eu diplomacy offers an opportunity to improve the union's human rights record. these activities should focus on strengthening international cooperation and raising the level of security. the promotion of democratic values and human rights should be a central tenet of the union's coherent foreign policy.
first of all, i would like to thank mrs laima andrikienė for her report. at the same time, i would like to say that human rights have been restored since the treaty of lisbon. the question is how do we use this instrument, not just to speak directly about human rights, but to put them where, among other things, we have trade policy with many countries. are these human rights important to our partners? i think the reaction to the european parliament's positions, or today's sakharov prize, for example, shows that they are important because they are heard. and the rights of christians in the world. i think that there are so many examples of persecution of christians that we have to take a stand. i also consider cooperation with, among others, the council of europe, the un, the organisation for security and cooperation in europe and the ombudsmen for civil and human rights of both the council of europe and many member states to be important, as there are many very good examples of the impact of their work on changing attitudes towards human rights.
as a member of the subcommittee on human rights, i would like to congratulate mrs andrikienė on a really good draft report. as the chairman of the european parliament's delegation for cooperation with belarus, i would also like to express my great satisfaction that this text makes reference to the situation in that country. especially when we talk about the fact that freedom of association, including national and ethnic minorities, is restricted in belarus all the time, and the freedom of religious organizations is restricted. i am also glad that it reflects the restriction of free internet access, where belarus is a certain undisputed leader in europe. i also hope that mrs ashton, who is present today during the debate, will do her utmost to ensure that the human rights dialogue that started with belarus last year produces concrete results, especially where we are talking about ending the repression of human rights defenders and independent belarusian journalists.
in writing. respect for human rights is the foundation of democracy and the central value on which the idea of the european union is based. that is why human rights are of particular importance to the union and to our parliament. in its annual report on human rights, the european parliament underlines its commitment to the protection of human rights worldwide. since 1988, the sakharov prize has been awarded to individuals and organisations for their outstanding achievements in the fight for human rights. we'll know this year's winner later this week. in the context of the 2009 report, i call on member states to sign and ratify all the main un and council of europe conventions on respect for human rights. to combat human rights violations in the world effectively, we must act together, in accordance with the global legal order adopted in this regard. it is therefore important for the union, as a leader in the field of human rights, that member states fulfil their international obligations in this area. the failure to respect the rights of vulnerable children is particularly abhorrent. i therefore call for a strict ban on child labour and for additional funds to be allocated to combat child labour. it's horrifying that in the 21st century, 215 million children around the world are forced to work, and about 115 million of them are in hard, slave labor. we can't let the economic crisis affect the children's situation any worse.
in writing. – the european union’s continued protection of human rights has paid great dividends worldwide and we must further our efforts in this age of globalisation. admittedly, this is a slow and sometimes tedious process, but it is important that we expand our goals and look at real world scenarios in order to develop efficient strategies. furthermore, i wish to voice my support for the protection of human rights defenders and policies that will provide for the continued spread of democracy to those countries that have yet to make this change. as we have seen with the recent nobel prize and sakharov prize winners, protection of these human rights defenders is of the utmost importance and these measures are a step toward that end. parliament’s efforts to spread democracy and protect human rights continue to make progress, and in today’s globalised world we know about injustices at a faster rate. this access to information makes it easier for us to monitor and react to situations around the world. we must therefore take advantage of this and continue our efforts to ensure that all people are given the fundamental rights that we have worked so hard to preserve.
four years ago, i was an election observer in the palestinian authority, in the palestinian authority, i stress. and i remember one of the most important people in the european parliament having this illusion. and this person said to me, "well, these hamas people are kind, cultured, sympathetic people. maybe it's worth negotiating with them. i hear a repeat today. today i hear that maybe it's worth negotiating with these moderate taliban. the only question is who is a moderate taliban and is that not a very stretched term? i'd be careful not to go that route. it is clear that in afghanistan, a lot of soldiers are dying - also from my country, from poland - definitely too many soldiers are dying, that our strategy costs too much money, and nato's strategy is also debatable. i would not throw out a baby with a bathtub and i would warn against dialogue with people who really have goals that are completely different from ours.
it is impossible to create a well-functioning aid programme for afghanistan without stabilising its internal situation. the main pillar of this effort must be to ensure security and victory against the rebel forces. to this end, the involvement of european countries in nato missions should be increased and europol forces, which, as we know, have not yet reached the numbers announced, should be strengthened. it is also necessary to cut off taliban forces from bases in pakistan and peshawar. as the u.s. state department reports, drug trafficking is a major source of financing for the guerrillas. this is another area for action by the european union, which should increase financial incentives for farmers to abandon poppy cultivation. it doesn't seem right to assume that the report is a statement of support for general petraeus's program. the funding should be locally sourced, but the power must be centrally. further fragmentation of afghanistan could lead to the somalization of the state and the division into warring tribes.
in writing. the strategy pursued so far in afghanistan has not produced the expected results. i welcomed the establishment of a nato engagement calendar in afghanistan and the signing of a long-term partnership declaration with that country at the nato lisbon summit. the eu is also presenting a more coherent and better coordinated approach to the region, taking into account the civil aspects and the importance of regional cooperation. we should continue to support reforms to combat poverty, discrimination against women and opium production. our actions must focus on increasing respect for human rights and the rule of law, building the rule of law and full integration of afghanistan into the international community. they should also cover the construction and reform of the administration and civil service through training programmes, assistance in building or using existing infrastructure and eu advice. afghanistan should be involved in the setting and implementation of priorities, which will foster the building of civil society and ensure afghan ownership of the country. at the same time, we must ensure the safety of our envoys, trainers and military representatives who are responsible for the implementation of these plans. we cannot allow the use of remotely piloted aircraft to be abandoned, which would result in a significant reduction in their safety. our strategy should take into account the security of afghan citizens as well as our representatives working for the development of the country.
of course, nato came out of the lisbon summit stronger. article 5 has been reinvigorated without eliminating the ability to defend against ballistic attack. the provisions of the new strategy must now be implemented. the action plan on the transatlantic missile defence architecture should be completed no later than mid-2011. the money should follow, too, including from our european nato partners. the signing of the new start treaty by russia must not mean any limitation on the construction of nato's anti-missile architecture. cooperation with russia in this area must not mean weakening the defence of central europe.
madam president, the question is whether we are happy with the lisbon outcome and i have a very mixed answer. it is insufficient, although it goes in the right direction. could we have expected more? i think yes, but if you compare it to where we were two, three or four years ago, it is much better. clearly there is unused potential in relations between the two, but there are more words than deeds and we need more deeds than words. for the moment, there is a lot of talk about rapprochement, but these are declarations rather than concrete steps. at the same time, there is increasing complementarity between the two. there is a certain expertise and there are capabilities on the union side. the union specialises more on soft power, nato more on hard, military power, but both sides evolve. the eu has gone a long way since st malo to affirm its role in security and defence, and nato in turn has acknowledged the need to broaden its purely military domain by a softer dimension and has already taken the decisions. hence both are coming closer, hence complementarity is growing. why not use it? the real stumbling block is the relationship between turkey and cyprus and the unsolved problem of cyprus. the role of the union is to take the lead, to undertake initiatives, to suggest to nato means of closer cooperation, to pass from words to deeds, and i take the example of the recent letter by the polish, german and french foreign ministers, to which lady ashton did react, as a good starting point in the right direction. closer eu-nato cooperation via political will on both sides and the strengthening of csdp, but there is also a role for, and a job to be done in, the capitals of both nato and eu member states.
i'm sorry, but i'm not going to be able to do this. the question that has been raised today is why we are talking about the nato summit in the european parliament, the eu's institution. the answer is obvious. most of the member states of the european union are members of nato, which means that the european union is us, and most of nato is us. it is therefore worth noting that for nato, the development of eu-nato cooperation was one of the main issues at the lisbon summit. the decisions of the nato summit and the declarations of the president of the united states, for example, confirm that the alliance is not fighting the common security and defence policy, but is rather trying to find a way to cooperate in a way that benefits both institutions. so we too must seek cooperation and collaboration instead of pointless competition and costly duplication of structures, especially in these times of financial crisis. i hope that the conclusions of the nato summit and the letter from the foreign ministers of france, germany and poland referred to here will lead us the european union to a serious debate on a common security and defence policy. poland, i am the polish representative, will certainly support you, the high representative, in these activities during the polish presidency. we must take advantage of the mechanisms and opportunities that the treaty of lisbon gives us. this is a big challenge for us. finally, i would like to say that i welcome the alliance's declaration of openness to cooperation with russia, while stressing the alliance's readiness to open up and accept new countries such as georgia.
i want to thank you very much for the opportunity to speak. this discussion today is about the cooperation between nato and the union. mrs ashton has given a positive opinion here, but i want to say that i think it is a very outlandish opinion. i have been preceded in speaking by my other polish colleagues, mr saryusz-wolski and mr lisek, and i want to make it clear that i agree with their assessment. it's just the beginning, but the beginning of a very long road. i would like to draw attention to three pragmatic areas where we can make progress together. the first area concerns joint nato and eu defence planning there is clearly more to be done here. the second area should be intelligence cooperation. progress can also be made. and finally, the third issue is the functioning of the battle groups.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, this morning we heard a very good debate on the citizens’ initiative and tonight we are discussing the very important topic of comitology. i think it is a very good sign that here, after the lisbon treaty has entered into force, we are actually finalising the main pieces of the legislation necessary for its full implementation. the regulation on implementing acts will have a major impact on the way the commission implements european law in the future. it will have a very important influence on the union’s ability to deliver its policies in the interests of its citizens. when we presented our proposal we set out its main objective: that new rules should put in place a system for the adoption of implementing acts by the commission which would be simpler, more efficient, and more transparent and in full compliance with the treaty. how did we achieve these goals in the proposals we are about to discuss? as in the past, the control mechanism foreseen by the regulation is based on comitology, meaning committees composed of representatives from member states to which the commission will submit draft measures but, contrary to the present system, there will no room for intervention by the council as such. as the treaty makes clear, only member states and not the council can control the exercise of the implementing powers by the commission. moreover, the regulation provides that all special procedures will disappear and that all implementing measures including those on trade – various measures such as anti-dumping or countervailing measures – will be subject to the regulation. this will represent a real revolution in the field of commercial policy. we want to have simpler procedures, so not only will the new regulation establish just two procedures – advisory and examination – instead of four, but it will also provide for an automatic adaptation of the existing comitology procedures. the new procedures will begin to apply to all existing legislation from day one. of course this is without prejudice to the nature of the powers conferred on the commission on the basic acts. the commission has committed in a declaration to review all the acquis in order to adapt it as far as legally required to the regime of delegated acts, and i know how important this is for this house. we have so far identified 153 acts which were not submitted to codecision before the lisbon treaty, and which confer powers on the commission that have to be turned into delegated powers. in addition there are 299 acts which were previously aligned to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny, which will now have to be reviewed in the light of the provisions of the treaty on delegated acts. but our aim is that before the end of parliament’s present legislative period all existing legislation will be fully in line with the new provision of the lisbon treaty. this means full alignment. you know how ambitious this goal is and therefore i am particularly pleased that the belgian minister mr chastel kindly asked me to deliver to this house the commitment and the statement of the presidency. it states that the presidency is aware of the ambitious intentions of the commission in this regard; it welcomes these and supports the objectives. it can confirm that it is willing to do its utmost to make sure that this alignment is concluded as soon as possible once proposals by the commission have been submitted. the presidency is ready to cooperate in a loyal manner with parliament and the commission to achieve these objectives. of course we would like to have this statement enshrined in an official written record, but i think that we have to welcome the very cooperative spirit and collegial approach from the belgian presidency. we want to have a system which is more efficient; accordingly the new rules fully reflect the commission’s role under the treaties – with just one regrettable exception which i will come back to later – because only a qualified majority vote by the committee against the draft implementing act can prevent the commission from adopting it. the one exception i just mentioned, where the commission explicitly needs a positive opinion of the committee before being authorised to adopt the draft implementing act, relates to definitive multilateral trade safeguard measures. even though only a limited number of acts are adopted in this area, we were against these exceptions on institutional grounds as we would have preferred a full alignment with the new rules. i wanted to make this institutional point here although in the end this was the only possible basis for the compromise for the legislator and we welcome it. we want to have a system which is more transparent; the whole procedure will be conducted in full transparency. all documents submitted to the committees are simultaneously sent to the european parliament and to the council; these two institutions will have a right of scrutiny on a completely equal footing. at any time during the procedure they may indicate to the commission that they consider that the draft implementing act exceeds its powers; if we are overstepping our powers you have the right to make it very clear to us. to conclude, all in all the text presents a very good result for europe; it clearly strengthens the community method and it clearly expands parliament’s power of scrutiny into all areas. for instance, the new regulation provides that in some cases the commission might be obliged to discuss the matter in an appeal committee. however this committee will be a normal comitology committee chaired by the commission and subject to the same rules; only qualified majority against the commission’s draft can then prevent the commission from adopting it. if the new comitology regulation is approved today by the european parliament it will enter into force very soon, already on 1 march 2011, and this is indeed very good news. we need to have the new legal framework operating as soon as possible, and i also hope that in parallel we could launch a common reflection about the line of demarcation between the delegated powers and the implementing powers of the commission. we need these not only to avoid further conflicts when discussing proposals for the new legislation but also to streamline the alignment exercise. to conclude i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr szájer, for all the work done throughout the negotiating process and also to all political groups for their cooperation and the flexibility they demonstrated. a final word of thanks goes to the belgian presidency who did a remarkable job in getting this file through the council, in finding this very difficult compromise. i believe that what we are about to discuss, and i hope tomorrow approve, is very good news for europe.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on regional development. − mr president, i worry that rejecting the inclusion of delegated acts in financial instruments might set a dangerous precedent for other policies. it also raises interinstitutional distrust and we are all concerned by this situation. the forthcoming proposals on the legislative package for regional policy after 2013 might require application of implementing acts, but might also require delegated acts. we cannot accept the prior exclusion of delegated acts. this should be a matter of negotiation among the co-legislators on a case-by-case basis. this position is, in my view, consistent politically and legally and i believe that the council and the commission will evidently share it with parliament. ahead of us lie a number of difficult years, without doubt. our duty as european institutions is to make the most of our policies, and by avoiding unnecessary conflicts and procedures we can be more effective in this common task.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the interpreters who were just translating the member who spoke before me, have translated the term, probably wrongly, as 'europeanism'. there is no such word in polish, and i have the impression that the initiative we are talking about is building something that does not exist: "europeism", which is a fiction that is part of a political game. i don't think what we're doing is necessary. you can't, as a famous philosopher once said, create beings out of necessity. i feel that the mark of european heritage is to build such an apartment beyond its need. i'm ignoring the fact that there's a serious ambiguity about the issue of signaling and signaling back. i am ignoring the fact that this initiative will cost european taxpayers €1,350,000. the question is, beyond these big questions, i mean, why do we do this? is there really a need to build something that is not european but just that europeanism?
in the period before the adoption of the treaty of lisbon, we were faced with a marked decline in interest among the citizens of the union in its affairs and activities. the adoption of the treaty of lisbon was intended to solve not only the problems of better functioning of the institutions but also to involve europeans more closely in the activities of the union, for example through the citizens' initiative. the european heritage label is a further step towards building a european identity and strengthening the links between citizens and the union. over the past four years, member states have designated 64 sites of special importance for europe. it is by exploring our common history, by learning about the role of the european union and by learning about cultural diversity based on shared democratic values and human rights that we can strengthen our citizens' sense of belonging to the great european family of which the union is a part.
i mean, we're very consistent. we have adopted the citizenship of the people of the european union by treaty, we had the opportunity to vote on the citizens' initiative yesterday, and today we are adopting the symbol that will be the european heritage label. it is absolutely the enhancement of the identity of the union, of identity, of citizenship, all these values are extremely important to us. i think this sign will be a great complement to both the unesco sign and the european cultural trail, but also to the european capitals of culture. and all of us who travel know how precious and important that is. i think the key element is to promote european culture inside, for europeans. much of europe is still unexplored in this respect, but the external promotion of european culture outside europe is also crucial. the most important thing is that the commissioner and the member states promote the brand effectively.
on behalf of the s&d group. on behalf of the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats, i support the rapporteur's proposal to give consent to the participation of the swiss confederation in the 'youth in action' programme and the lifelong learning action programme. the agreement is negotiated in an appropriate manner, protects the interests of the union and the legal basis of the european programmes in the fields of education, training and youth provides for the participation of switzerland. the rules for such participation are well defined, which guarantees the proper and fair implementation of the programmes. in the field of education, training and youth, switzerland is interested in cooperation with the union, and our agreement should therefore be obvious. we are pleased that the union's education programmes are so interesting and effective that other countries are joining them. the latest research from the european commission shows that the 'youth in action' programme improves young people's language skills and their chances on the labour market. however, the opportunities for adult education, while having a great potential, are still not fully exploited.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. this report was unanimously supported in the culture committee, everyone agreed that it was a good project. and it is, it is non-controversial, it goes against the values we're talking about. it is precisely this report that seems to have the full support of the whole house, even if, as the commissioner has said, the situation in switzerland is specific. but precisely because it is a very interesting, very specific country in a political sense, in a very interesting way cooperating with europe, at the same time not being part of many european agreements, it is worthwhile to engage with this country through this type of non-controversial and widely accepted programs.
i would like to thank mrs doris pack and the commissioner very warmly for taking this initiative. i think that switzerland, which is an enclave surrounded on all sides by the european union, actually requires this openness to programs. i think young people don't always understand that, not being in the european union, they haven't been able to benefit from this transnational, european programme that integrates young people perfectly, exchanges best practices, fully makes cooperation, lifelong learning, a truly european element. i would like to thank you first of all for the fact that today we will be able to test the model of european programmes in a country which is not a member of the european union, and with such great appreciation and request i would also like to encourage mrs doris pack and the commissioner to perhaps extend similar examples to other countries which are willing. i am thinking here mainly of the eastern partnership and also of the balkans, i.e. countries which are not yet formally members of the european union.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the lifelong learning programme, which was included in the 7th framework programme, aims to develop different forms of learning throughout the working life by promoting cooperation between education and training systems in the countries participating in the programme. the target group of this programme is not only students or secondary school pupils, but also adults, thanks to the grundtvig systematic programme, and training staff for whom study visits are provided. the increasing budget allocated to this programme each year indicates a legitimate need for development and cooperation in this area. in 2011, it is almost 1.28 billion. with such high levels of youth unemployment, resulting from the failure to adapt education to the needs of labour markets and the lack of adequate vocational training for graduates, we need to focus on making the most of the opportunities offered by the lifelong learning programme and find a solution to this difficult situation. i welcome the initiative to include switzerland in cooperation in this area. i hope that the exchange of experience will contribute to the growth of employment and increase labour market mobility.
the wording of this resolution is clear: no derogations and no derogations. the european commission is to prepare instruments for enforcement and punishment of non-conforming production. unfortunately, nothing is clear from the fact that the resolution states that some producers had 12 years to adapt, others 8 or 5. i should add that the producers with the shorter lead time, by buying the unsuitable cages assembled by their colleagues from the 15th, supported their adaptation, unaware of the trouble they were causing themselves. experts have shown that, once the caging directive is implemented, the demand for eggs for human consumption in the european union will exceed the supply, which in practice means imports from third countries of eggs that are certainly produced in unsuitable cages. the commission is therefore requested to assess the possibility of maintaining the ban on the use of traditional cages from 1 january 2012 and to find solutions, clearly defined criteria for those producers who do not complete the modernisation process by 1 january 2012, as stated in the two amendments supported by the group of meps. the main argument for adopting this resolution, according to the authors, besides welfare and competitiveness, is the claim that the transitional adjustment period was known, written in the directive and cannot be changed. i hope that the members who will vote for this resolution, accepting this line of argument, will also all be fully determined and unanimous in their support for no further transitional period for the differentiation of direct payments in the european union after 2013, because this transitional period, as laid down in the treaty, is to last until 2013. it's written that way, and i don't think we're gonna change it.
it is not debatable that farmers have to comply with the 1999 directive. we understand those farmers who have already invested in the modernization of the cages. it is not a matter of giving more time to some, as one of the speakers said, but of giving equal time to both to meet the requirements, to meet the standards. it is very nice to say that this is illegal production, consumer protection, but why do we not defend consumers with the same determination against eating imported eggs produced in conditions which do not comply with the requirements that are being introduced in the union? i always try to understand the situation of different groups of farmers in different countries and support solutions that support them, because i know that this is a group that has an extremely difficult situation in terms of income. it is a pity that others in this parliament do not share this view.
the european union stands up for the weak, for the discriminated against, for the poorest and for those most in need. we give out the sakharov prize all over the world. but the european union often fails to enforce human rights in our territory. i would like to draw attention to the continuing problem of discrimination against minorities, including the polish minority in lithuania in a member state of the union which is a signatory to international agreements and treaties on the protection of human and minority rights. today, the lithuanian seimas was supposed to decide on restricting the possibility of teaching in the minority language. it's been rescheduled for the near future. i once again call on the members of the european parliament, the president of the parliament, the european commission to ensure that the principles of democracy and respect for minority rights are effectively enforced by the member states of the european union. the limitation of the number of hours of mother tongue in schools and the actions leading to the closure of polish schools in lithuania are in their pure form discriminatory behaviour against the national minority.
in writing. − the image of the european union and its institutions in the eyes of citizens is of paramount importance. unfortunately, the results of the polls show that the sense of european identity and unity, as well as trust in the eu institutions, is declining among european citizens. promoting knowledge of a common history and common cultural roots can be particularly helpful in bringing the eu closer to its citizens and in building a sense of cohesion and solidarity among them. this is what the new european heritage label is all about. the simplification of procedures and the standardisation of award criteria will have a positive impact on the prestige of the label, enhance the eu's positive image and increase the level of trust that its citizens have in institutions such as the european parliament.
in writing. - i have today supported the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european union action for a european heritage label. i believe that this is an interesting and valuable initiative which will contribute to the promotion of european culture and heritage and to the development of tourism and the regions. it is right that parliament has stressed that the european heritage label will be complementary, not duplicative, of other initiatives in the field of cultural heritage, such as the unesco world heritage list or the council of europe's european cultural routes.
in writing. − as a member of the committee on culture, education and sport, i supported the ep resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european union action in favour of the european heritage label. the idea of establishing an eu trade mark is important in terms of bringing the history of the european union, its cultural heritage and the building of european identity and links between countries closer to citizens. by designing sites in each member state to be eligible for the eu's european heritage label, we are building a sense of awareness that the history of europe is relevant to all of us, regardless of where we live, our language, or our culture. the transformation of the european heritage label into a european union initiative will contribute to its credibility, visibility and prestige. this in turn can translate into economic and social benefits, such as an increase in the tourist attractiveness of the awarded sites. the award of this label will also contribute to increasing the interest and knowledge of the younger generation about the ideas and people of europe. and in doing so, bring our continent closer to its citizens.
in writing. −the european heritage label initiative aims to promote the places, figures and activities of people who have contributed to the process of integration in europe. it is intended to bring citizens closer to the fundamental values on which our community is founded, such as democracy, solidarity, cultural diversity and tolerance. the list of sites awarded the european heritage label will constitute a map of the traditions and culture of our continent, a map of places that have played an important role in shaping european identity. europe's common but diverse heritage can strengthen its citizens' sense of identity and deepen european cohesion. this initiative will create a platform for cooperation between the countries and regions of europe. in addition, it can have a positive impact on the tourism sector, contributing to the improvement of the attractiveness of the regions and at the same time their economic situation. i agree that this project should become an official initiative signed by the union, which will increase its visibility, credibility and prestige. the increased visibility of the project will allow more citizens to identify with the symbols that symbolise and commemorate european integration. the project should operate in parallel, on a complementary basis, with the international unesco project or the european capitals of culture the dimension of the european heritage label is educational and symbolic values and to a lesser extent aesthetic or architectural values. we should look for solutions that increase the sense of belonging to europe among its citizens.
in writing. - we all know how important a good education system is for every country, providing young people with the best possible education. good skills, knowledge and education have a direct impact on the culture, the labour market and, as a result, the standard of living of citizens. every country wants to be proud of its youth, and every young person wants to have the opportunity to learn new cultures, languages and gain professional experience abroad. the european union boasts a well-developed system of student exchange as well as open labour markets. this gives every young european a wide range of opportunities for intellectual and professional development. by participating in the 'youth in action' programme, switzerland is demonstrating its commitment to cooperation with the european union, especially in the field of education. we should not deny the young citizens of this country the privileges and opportunities of a community education.
in writing. - switzerland is a country which, despite its excellent education programmes, has to deal with the problem of unequal access to higher education. it is hoped that cooperation with the union will improve the chances of young people in switzerland, especially those from immigrant backgrounds, to have access to education. the experience of member states with youth exchange programmes clearly shows that they not only promote the acquisition of a good education but also play a positive integration role in europe through the knowledge of the languages, cultures and traditions of the respective countries. the lifelong learning programme is also a great opportunity to highlight the role of women in switzerland. as a social group, women were granted the right to vote at the federal level at the latest in europe, because only in the 1970s, for a long time, they had difficulty not only in participating fully in civil society, but also in education and professional self-realization. today, middle-aged women who wish to enter a new professional activity often face the problem of lack of qualifications or experience, as a significant proportion of them - due to the high cost of childcare - have not taken up a job to devote themselves to the family.
in writing. − respect for human rights is one of the union's fundamental values. this issue is receiving particular attention in the s&d group. it's on practically every agenda in the group. it is important that the whole parliament should also pay attention to this. we are seeing some, albeit slow, improvement in the world. we still have countries whose governments persist in human rights violations, and we also have countries where there are changes. the rapporteur's oral amendment reflected these good trends in russia. the situation in cuba is still very much alive, as the 2010 sakharov prize ceremony demonstrated. i voted for this report with conviction.
in writing. − i am extremely concerned about the establishment of a permanent mechanism to safeguard the financial stability of the euro area. this is a vital issue for the euro area countries as well as for the rest of the european union. more than 150 million citizens remain outside the euro area. stabilising the euro will help them to meet their aspirations for membership of the area and may protect the whole system from further disruption. the resolution will not solve the problems by itself, but it can be an important signal to the council and the commission and to the member states. the resolution expresses parliament's strong will to strengthen the union's approach and to strengthen european solidarity. i voted for the resolution with high hopes.
in writing. - i voted against the resolution, although i strongly support protecting animal welfare. it is necessary to comply with the requirements of the directive introducing the necessity to remove conventional cages, but all member states should be given the same time to implement it. the difficulties experienced by many european producers in adapting to the rules due to enter into force on 1 january 2012 will result in a shortage of eggs for human consumption on the market and a significant increase in their prices, a decrease in the competitiveness of this sector vis-à-vis imports from third countries and a likely cessation or serious reduction of production. before the final ban is imposed, an assessment of the state of implementation of the directive should be carried out, which would help to propose transitional solutions in the phasing out of unimproved cages without prejudice to producers who have already complied with the rules.
on behalf of the ecr group. we welcome the fact that malaysia is developing economically and that the living conditions of its people are improving, but we also welcome with disbelief the report by amnesty international describing the widespread use of flogging in malaysia. indeed, it is a severe punishment, often directed at the adult, sometimes for minor and very questionable transgressions. it seems particularly cruel to apply it to illegal immigrants or people in malaysia without valid documents, including political refugees from burma. however, behind the fact of its harsh wording, there is a hidden truth about the traditional terms and the wording of the whipping penalty used in malaysia. many of the offences punishable by flogging are related to the violation of islamic religious law and its customs. take the case of kartiki sari sukarno, who was sentenced to a lashing in 2009 for drinking beer in a bar. we need to respond to this situation.
the use of whips and all forms of corporal punishment and inhuman treatment should be strongly condemned. malaysia cannot invoke its domestic law, which provides for the punishment of flogging for at least 66 offences, to justify its ruthless methods amounting to torture, which are considered illegal by international law and conventions. also alarming are reports from amnesty international that a growing number of refugees and migrants are being flogged in malaysian prisons. the european union, which has more effective methods of protecting human rights since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, should take greater initiative in combating the brutal treatment of people in the world. in addition, respect for human rights should become a key condition for the european union to develop further political cooperation with malaysia.
malaysia is an economic tiger. it's a highly developed country that's a model for the entire southeast asian region. but this tiger has a serious problem. that's the punishment of the whip. of course, one can speak of respecting a certain cultural distinctiveness, of the fact that we europeans should be particularly sensitive when it comes to imposing our models on other continents. but what this issue is really about are human rights that are indivisible, that transcend continental boundaries, race boundaries, religion boundaries. i believe that the european parliament should not only defend, but must defend, the basic human right to human dignity, which is certainly being violated by the whip.
the practice of flogging has been practiced in malaysia since the 19th century, when britain colonized the area. the malaysian government has recently increased the list of crimes punishable by flogging, with 66 different cases of flogging being carried out. prisoners sentenced to be flogged are kept in prisons without any information about the time they will serve their sentence. amnesty international estimates that about 10,000 such sentences are handed down each year, with 60 percent of the cases involving illegal immigrants who do not even understand the sentence because of the language barrier. however, the authorities do not see the need to change the law, since they consider flogging to be an effective means of fighting crime. the european union has been working more closely with malaysia for the last eight years. the budgetary perspective for 2007-13 includes eur 17 million to support the development of the local economy. it is therefore appropriate to call on our partner to ratify the united nations convention against torture, strongly condemning the practice of flogging as incompatible with the position of the un human rights council.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. attempts to discriminate against citizens based on sexual orientation in uganda is a serious matter. uganda has the support of many african countries who do not want the international community and the european union to push for the decriminalization of homosexuality. the misunderstanding is that in our view, as mrs de keyser has said, the prohibition of discrimination in this area is a universal human right. in most african countries, they don't agree with that, which is why dialogue is so difficult. we say we can't keep quiet about such things, and they say we meddle in other people's affairs. the draft laws in uganda are really radical. they introduce the potential death penalty for repeated violations of existing prohibitions or for particularly severe homosexuality, it is not known what that would mean. we do not agree with these proposals and hope that they will not be adopted.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. this is an interesting and important discussion. i would like to draw attention to two problems. first, uganda is not really an island of discrimination in this area in an ocean of human rights. three-quarters of african countries have very strict laws on this issue that are discriminatory. this is absolutely not so much a problem for uganda as it is a broader problem for this continent and african culture. secondly, uganda is obviously not the hub of human rights in africa. we know a lot, we have many examples of human rights violations, and this case is part of a larger problem, and of course it needs to be spoken about.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the situation of eritrean refugees in sinai is dramatic. they seek a better life, and often they meet death, torture, and oppression. they're being used and deceived. egyptian authorities have tried to combat human trafficking, but their response has not always been effective. we must help the refugees, the hostages, and all those who need our help. we should support the israeli and egyptian authorities in their fight against human trafficking. it is also worth considering the causes of these dangerous phenomena. i think we need to work to improve the situation in eritrea itself and in other countries in the horn of africa. improving the situation in african countries could reduce migration pressures. and just fighting the pathologies of migration alone is not going to solve the problem. we can only limit the negative phenomena and the exploitation of the refugees' determination. i'm asking for your support on the ppe bill. in this case, we are convinced that our project is better than the joint project.
the situation of eritrean refugees is tragic. but as we reflect on their plight, we should also keep in mind the cause of the situation. well, eritrea is a country that is pervasive in its violation of basic human rights. there's mass persecution on a massive scale of political opponents, christians, but also thousands of random people. and that's the cause of this tragic problem that we're talking about today. therefore, we must do everything to change the policy towards the eritrean authorities, especially when we remember that in 2007 the current leader of that country, responsible for the terrible and massive suffering of the people who are causing them to flee and for the subsequent tragedies, was warmly welcomed by the european commission in brussels. so it's time for a pragmatic and decisive policy against the tyrant.
